ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I see there aren't many of us. Ladies and gentlemen, on September 21, 2021, the Supreme Council of Ukraine registered the requirement of 165 national deputies to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting. In accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, no later than a three - day period. Today, at the next plenary session, the motions for the initiators to convene are set for consideration by bills, registration numbers 2644, 2645, 3853, 3993 and alternative bills before them. With regard to the draft Law, registration number 2644, which the National Deputies propose to consider, and in accordance with the decree adopted by us by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of February 2, 2021, No. 1164-IX "On the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call", this bill has been withdrawn from consideration and cannot therefore be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is about Project 2644. So today we can actually only consider the three bills that have been put into the agenda. Dear fellow Members, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. People's deputies please register. [[16:06:25]] There are 161 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, first we had a statement with a break and a replacement for the performance. The word is given by Speedy Annie Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you about the violent situation that took place in the city of Preyaslav, which is one of the largest ethnographic preserves in Ukraine. For many years, the budget of the well-known National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve "Preislav" has been underwhelming. Since 2014, the director of NIEZ has been the famous Alexei Lukasevic, a man who has been exposed to a series of criminal conduct involving the destruction of state property in a particularly large way and the abuse of office. But the king of this reserve still manages to lead it today. The material damage to the state from Lukasevic's operation amounted to 17.5 million dollars under one contract only, and coffee was purchased for 19.5 million at its public value on OLX at 2.5. A special inspection of Minkult in 2019, an audit of the 2018 Derjaudit Service established the spending of budgetary resources on a particularly large scale, the abuse of office status, was recommended to terminate the contract with Lukasevic. To this day, however, he continues to take up his office. During 2020 alone, NIEZOM paid nearly a million dollars for illegal release and will still be paid some 230,000 dollars, since Lukasevic, in abuse of his job, simply frees people who disagree with his policies. The situation is awe - inspiring, given that due to the inaction of the leadership of NEIZ at the brink of destruction there is the Coven of Wozniesen and the bells of the 17th century, a unique diorama of the Battle for Dnipro. It is, by the way, second in Ukraine and fourth in the world. The state of the buildings is critical, and I've seen it myself when you just walk in between them, and a brick falls on you, a plaster falls on you, a roof flows, and the diorama rots just for today. On September 7, a new contest was held, and by some miracle Lukashevich was reelected. I do not understand how the commission, with so many friends, reelected him despite criminal conduct and the destruction of the state budget. Mincult doesn't do anything. I see this as a corrupt scheme, since to this day he continues to hold office and is reinstated in criminal proceedings in his office. I'm calling on the D.B.I., the Mincult and the Kabmin to break up and not sign the results of the competition that were held as director of N.I.E.L., and to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the issues of the order of the day of our off-the-book session. And as I said before, since Bill 2644, I have the information that was taken out of the Supreme Council Resolution No. 1164-IX of 02.02.2021 on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to eliminate the norms that provide for an increase in fiscal pressure by extending the scope of accounting transactions, we have no reason to consider this session and so we are going to consider the next issue in order, 2645, 2645-1, 2645-d. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats and move on. Please support and vote. [[16:11:35]] For-119 The decision is not taken. We're going into the full discussion of these bills, your honorary colleagues. I would like to give you the floor to report to the Ukrainian national deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, on Bill 2645, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u4	Anton Polyakov, parliamentary group of political Party for the Future, Montenegro. Dear colleagues, what's going on right now is just the abuse of Ukrainians, it's the mistreatment of small businesses and the abuse of 2 million entrepreneurs who voted for you two years ago. These are the people who, free of charge, supported the Party of the People's Servant and the President in the election and in the presidential election. And now instead of meeting in two years, two years, you've been asked to gather and consider these bills, you just don't come to meetings. I thank those deputies who still have a conscience and who have come to this meeting today. Because these people were really waiting, waiting for a dialogue, a dialogue with power. They didn't understand why during the first week of plenary after you were elected, you just tricked them and this program of yours, the election program of the People's Party, they just did it the other way around. You have it written down here, if anyone does not remember: At the legislative level, we guarantee that there is no change in the applicable tax conditions for small businesses — individuals. I realize that people like Mr. Danilo, who went to the Council and became the head of the Fincom, probably didn't read this program, but we have to do what we promised. And when you passed Bills 1053 and 1073, so-called laws 128, 129, entrepreneurs from all over Ukraine gathered and wanted a dialogue. I'm not talking about a certain movement of entrepreneurs, which today, for example, under the Council, these movements are very much. There are all-Ukrainian, there are regional. For example, in my hometown of Chernigovina, there is a trade union of entrepreneurs named Nikishin, Salva, who has thousands of entrepreneurs. There's a business center called Irina's Stock Exchange, which also has thousands of entrepreneurs. They work, they don't need anything from a government that doesn't take money from you that creates jobs. And they don't need anything, they don't leave this country. And you just spit on them. How did this end? Because of the respectable David Arahami, who is not even in the hall, he went out to them, promised that the dialogue would be, that the bills would be considered. After that, 2644 and 2645 were given. These bills, they're completely mirrored by 128, 129 laws, they completely override those laws, those anti-Fopian laws, so that you can then set up a dialogue with entrepreneurs who had the opportunity to work properly. Because these business associations that you've been showing and proving to them that we're doing this for them are actually inanimate organizations. And your Deputy Minister of Economics on direct television told me that I sign these conclusions with statues. Dear colleagues, I don't want to take your attention and the time is precious. We know that these bills prescribe so many business-related rules that really lead to business going away, closing up, and small entrepreneurs going abroad. Well, of course, a lot of those in attendance who didn't attend this meeting don't give a shit. But I'm asking you to support at least those who have a conscience, those bills. All the entrepreneurs in the country who really work, it's a small business, they don't transfer their funds to offshore, they don't raise capital, they work here in Ukraine, they create an additional economy each in their own town. And if you do not create normal working conditions for them, at least do not change them for worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u5	Anton Eduardoovich, wait. Please, Anton Eduardoovich, stay because we have a full procedure, and it foresees questions to the reporter and answers to them. So up to three minutes for the interviewees ’ questions and answers. Anyone who wishes to ask a question, please sign up. The word is given to the national MP, Nina Petrovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, for such a small number of those present in the room, we will be considering all draft laws in full procedure, which allows us to make a point of view to those colleagues who are in the room. Please tell me, during this period of time that has passed since the end of last year to this day, whether the authorities realize that the adopted laws of 128 and 129 are a harsh approach to small business and do not justify any further action you have taken with regard to owners of offshore companies, other controlled foreign companies, in respect of which you have adopted completely opposite liberal norms. Mr. Anton, during this period of time, have you been approached by individuals who are entrepreneurs, with what questions, please tell us what has remained urgent and essential for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u7	Please respond to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u8	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for asking. You're one of those MPs who really advocates the interests of entrepreneurs right now. And thank you so much for signing these bills. Every day, entrepreneurs used it to change the limits, to undo this shameful cashback and RRO, if developed, to develop how conditions normally were created, for example, in Georgia, when the RRO was fully paid. And when, on the basis of the fact that we're struggling with confiscation and shadow circulation of some cell phone there, the head of the Fincom said that he didn't know how these standards of this law would help, how could we say that? You remember that session when I said that, and how can we, let's just say, get hypermarkets out of work?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u9	Thank you. Please give the floor to Ukraine’s national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, for a question to the reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u10	Please give me the word of Alexander Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u11	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear speakers! I would like to point out that today's order of the day is certainly going to be supported by our faction. It will support all of those bills that have been submitted and incorporated into the agenda, because they are such that they will, in whole or in part, go to support the individual entrepreneurs. I'd like to point out that our faction registered a year ago a bill of 4490, which is as liberal as possible for the natural entrepreneurs who will support them, because it's not about fiscalization now, it's about survival, it's about this complex period of post-water, post-lockdown, when the economy and the internal consumer market are all tied up. There has been a significant decline in the number of physical and legal matters. Legal persons, I'm sorry. And from this point of view, of course, we will vote not only this one but also the next. And my proposal to the speakers is to include bills and other factions to strengthen the consensus of the voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u13	The answer, please, is Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u14	Thank you for your position. The point is that the bills that are included in the agenda of this session are those bills that the FOPs asked for. So we're exclusively doing our representation function, the function of the people's deputies. We were asked by voters, 2 million people, we did it. Under all the bills, we asked for all the factions to be signed: both pervasive and opposing. Someone made it, someone didn't make it, that's how SEDO works. And by the way, the Servants of the People have already been banned from meeting again, and then, in principle, parliamentaryism in Ukraine will end at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report on the alternative bill of the Ukrainian National MP, Mr. Andriyovich. Please, Paul Andryovich. Your time is up to 10 minutes, then the questions and the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u16	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people, especially you, natural persons entrepreneurs. Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Clearly, today this bill about people, especially those who are not afraid of work and are not afraid of official work, about those who work, are officially registered and have long paid taxes in our country. And even though it rains outside the walls of the Supreme Council today, they, our entrepreneurs, are responsible for their fundamental rights. Not even 226 were found among the national deputies to meet in the hall under the dome. It's absolutely unbelievable and insane. And what I'm saying is that it's those people who are wetting outside the walls of the Supreme Council today, defending their rights, who are actually paying taxes to local budgets. After all, at one tax, most of them fill local budgets, which they actually survive today, and pay our teachers, who make roads, repair schools, gardens, hospitals, and FAPs. They are entrepreneurs who create jobs for themselves, who do not go abroad, who do not work in the shadows, and who also officially take jobs, who pay taxes for their employees, that is, they provide for their family, their family, they provide opportunities for work for others, and they provide for other families, they pay taxes for local budgets, and the EU, from which they then provide social insurance, from which they then pay pensions. Today, they are wetting themselves in the rain, calling on the people’s chosen ones to meet in this room in warm, light, where it does not rain, and to support them during a difficult time during the pandemic. For a few years now, the pandemic is on its way. They were, the government is still offering us an even bigger lockdown. What about those who pay taxes? That's why we, the members of the Trust MP group, passed an alternative bill, which actually cancels the extension of the obligation to apply accounting transaction registrars. And our bill also refers to a reduction in fines for not using or misusing RROs. That's two of those important moments. I call upon you, honourable national MPs, to support our alternative bill as a basis, and thus to support our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u17	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. I'd like to introduce you to the head. Excuse me. Question to the reporter, please. Paul Andryovich. No questions or any questions? Please sign up then. Please log in, log in. The word is given by Velitchovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u18	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u19	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u20	Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Reporter! Tell me, please, we have a September month today, it's almost over this year, and since January 1nd, 22nd, the Law 129 will enter into force. These standards were temporarily suspended by some compromise decision, and the compromise decision is now over. You've all been to your constituencies in the summer. All of you have heard one single request: to approach and accept acceptable working conditions for entrepreneurs. Please tell me, as the author of this bill, first of all, you filed it immediately after the adoption of the 129th Act. Now what do entrepreneurs feel about places: they feel the support of the state, because of some standards, they are able to support the state? How does it feel?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u21	Thank you for your question. In fact, thanks to your firm position last year, it was still possible to term this extended use of accounting registers for our FOPs. And of course, right after that they said, "Honorable nationals, please cancel them in the following year, because we understand that the pandemic is going to continue, and we can't just, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we're just, we can't, we can't, we can't, we're still, we're getting fiscalized. So when we come to the districts, one thing that entrepreneurs say is that one small step that they've had to take is not a cancellation of the RRO, it's just an extension that, unfortunately, you said in a few months. So just because of the opportunities we have today, we need to call on the people's advocates, they would come, and yet they're still going to delay the use of these RROs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u22	Thank you. I understand that Vadim Evgenovich is asking me to move on. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please ask the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u23	Paul Andryovich, please tell me that this is a rhetorical issue, but, nevertheless, this morning began with the fact that police in numbers, on the eye, no less than seven or eight people packed the head of the SaveFOP organization Sergey Dorotic. From what was known in the media, it was made on camera. Then, without stopping, they pushed the police, numbering, per eye, up to 100 people rallying, who looked smaller. Do you think these actions of power were aimed at what -- to solve the problem of micro-enterprise?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u24	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy, for stressing again that today's actions have made the power and rights of our citizens, especially entrepreneurs, those who pay taxes, peaceful, totally unhindered by them, a rally. Sergey Dorotić, the name you have already mentioned, is clearly known to all entrepreneurs in our country because he and his team are gathering entrepreneurs from various cities, explaining their rights and their abilities. And I think that people like that need to be supported so that our M.E.S. doesn't punish them cruelly for just holding a peace rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u25	Thank you. Thank you, Paul Andryovich, for your report. The author of the third alternative bill, 2645-d, the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend. Please, Daniel Alexanderovich, your 10 minutes to report. We're going through the full program. And then you're going to answer as from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u26	Thank you. Thank you. The boys asked me faster, I'll be faster. Look, first of all, about those bills that are being considered, they were developed over a year ago, much more than a year ago, and so they're completely out of date. When the Committee of the Supreme Council considered them, it was concluded that we were simply transferring them to the Hall so that the Hall could be established, in accordance with article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules, one of the decisions envisaged in the Rules of the Supreme Council. They're canceling the cashback rules that have been canceled for a long time. They cancel fines that are long gone, too. Well, anyway, I think that the authors of these bills, and actually those people who demand, understood what we're doing right now -- we're just talking about nothing. And I want to take this opportunity to thank the entrepreneurs, to thank a small business that passes consciously before the new year, when it is not mandatory to enter the account logs, but it is now moving into the account loggers. If in November of last year only 28 single tax payers (FOPs of three groups) have established only 28,000 registers of accounting transactions of different, software, and non-programming operations, this figure is now above 70,000. So actually, and I think that's the question for most entrepreneurs today -- the normal, convenient calculation that they're doing. For the software registers of the accounting operations. This is a handy tool that is now being used by 134 thousand already. 134 thousand software RROs are set up for entrepreneurs. And more than half a billion RRO electronic checks are generated. So please do not support any of the bills and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u27	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Now the question to the reporter. Let's write down who wants to ask Daniel Alexanderovich a question. Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u28	Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Deputy Group of Trust. Dear Mr. Gethmants, I recently recruited entrepreneurs in the Luhansk region for the reason that today the majority is being bullied by small, medium and large businesses. Please tell me, a year ago, that the bill was submitted to the committee and there was no bill in the hall. Why is it that, when 150 signatures were collected, entrepreneurs could barely get together and take them to the hall, today's hall is empty, well, we realize that most of them don't do it, they're only run by the oligarchy business. Tell me, please, why did it happen that right now you're going out to the rostrum and you're talking about supporting your own, and others aren't supporting the bills that entrepreneurs require? How many skins will be removed from small, medium and large business, and where is Ukraine still on the pillars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Thank you for supporting this bill by your group when it was adopted. It's a very important decision for the country, it's actually a civilization that was and is now necessary for our business -- both the medium and the small one you care about, and the big business. The law is one for all, it's the normal conditions for business in any country. And when, in order to enter the market, any market, you have to learn the practice of tax evasion, or you won't get the necessary income, it's not a civilization, it's the Middle Ages from which we're with you, thanks again for the support, we refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u30	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The word is given to Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u31	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u32	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u33	First remark. You're the one who said that we're not talking about anything today. For the first time today, it is possible to discuss fiscalization as complex as such, not with banal calls that everyone should pay taxes. So how do you explain everything you've done for offshore owners and a tax exemption that could add $7 billion to the country if these owners of controlled foreign companies went through the general procedure of filing a one-time declaration? You ignored the interests of the state, and now you're talking about some equality. It's such a banal thing that, you know, people don't really take it very well, and you use it. And second of all. In every country, small businesses are isolated, and in every country, there are preferences for small businesses. These are 2 million people who have organized their own jobs and have been able to work there for many years. And it's you and it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u34	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. I'll remind you what we did for the offshore. For the first time in Ukrainian history, we passed an anti-offshor law in January 20th, even though we weren't allowed to do it. But I'm going to answer your question another way. Now, please listen to this principle for civilized countries. I want to quote the classic: "The entire circulation of cash must be legal and be fixed by the RRO. Honest business has nothing to hide, everyone has to work in the legislative field, both large businesses and small businesses. Therefore, legislators should take into account the characteristics of entrepreneurship." Who do you think said that in 2019? Eugene Nina Petrovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u35	Thank you, dear fellows, we have completed the presentations of our people who presented their drafts. And now we're moving on. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am not responsible for the presence of deputies. So I'd like to invite you to join the factions for three minutes, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u36	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, don't you think it's just a complete disrespect for you and me first? 165 deputies were assembled at the request of an extraordinary session. And where's the majority? For more than a month, people have been standing on the street demanding positions, positions of MPs on certain bills. And where is this position? It's just spitting, spitting people who today demand a fair view of small and medium-sized businesses. Small and medium-sized businesses, colleagues, in all countries, are developing at a rapid rate, in the United States alone -- 90 percent, in Japan -- 99 percent. And the big corporations, the colleagues, started with one person or a small business, if it's an IKEA corporation, then if it's Maersk, it's evolved from father and son at all, if it's Ralph Lauren, then if it's the other one, Tesco, call it any, they started with a small business. And this is the main function of small business is to create jobs. In Ukraine, 2 million people have created 73 percent of jobs. We have a crazy potential, for example, in the agricultural sector: 4 million people who are outside the market are not farmers, a million of them will become taxpayers, they can be family farmers, they can employ people. This is a policy, it should be an incentive policy for such people -- millions of jobs in a particular sector. What about seasonal workers? This, colleagues, is the base of any country, is the basis of any economy, when small ones come up, many of them, then they turn to medium because of incentives, through budget support, through loans. Colleagues, when the coronavirus went to Italy, in certain provinces gave 30,000 euros to entrepreneurs to move to the villages to create small businesses and jobs there. These are incentives to move people from cities to villages to develop evenly all these areas. Where is the strategic vision of today’s state? You're making all kinds of laws. 5600, it was said that this law would be against the oligarchs. No ore, no real estate, no greens, no excises. Who are you fighting against? Against ordinary citizens who want to be taxed by 1 hectare. Out of 30 billion there will be 18 for ordinary people. Here's all the politics you're proposing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u37	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Železnik Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to apologize to the people who are waiting in Parliament. You may be in a position with them or not, but people are here, and right now, I think it's very painful for them to look at the Ukrainian Supreme Council Hall and realize that even 165 people who have registered are much less than the 226 bills they expected to accept. Now for the bill. You can talk about fiscalization for a long time, but there are some obvious facts that, whether they support or do not support certain MPs implementing the RRO, remain unchanged. We're now on Gruszewski Street, near Krestetstick Street, there's a lot of electronics stores. This is the center of the city of Kiev. Now you can go in and see now that there's a fiscalization of household technology. How many checks do you get out there and how much they're fiscalized, and are corruption and smuggling defeated? There's an Arsenal subway next door. You know, I'm sorry right now that the members of the People's Servant, the members of our committee's profile committee chat room, are dropping information that, with the photos, right in the middle of town, cigarettes are sold in broad daylight without any excise duty, without an RRO, and, of course, without paying any taxes. There's a couple of fillers out there, a little bit away from the center, who definitely don't have any official representation, and they definitely don't pay the tax. And every day, at least those who go in these directions see how these fillings work and work, and no one closes them. Whether there is an RRO or not, they have no right to do so. Guys, we're talking about high enough stuff, business support, that kind of thing. But business is people who walk the streets and see how we fight smuggling, business is people who take these photos away from us. I'm sure that, unfortunately, because of the national MPs' appearance, we won't be adopting these laws today. And unfortunately, those last assignments, including those of the Bureau of Economic Security, when the person responsible for fighting corruption and smuggling is now assigned to the new body. I have no doubt about what will happen next and how this story will continue. So, of course, these bills are not going to vote today. But I think we need to check the reality a little bit and make sure that we're not ashamed of the few deputies left behind and keep looking into the eyes of the people who are standing on the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u39	Thank you. The word is given to Eugene Nina Petrovney, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, the bill that we are discussing is actually repealing those norms that have been adopted by the 129 Law as a whole. Well, actually, it's been registered for a long time, it was very relevant at the time, but today we have the first opportunity to discuss this topic in more detail. I would like to turn around, but I don't see the head of the interfractional union here for the support of the FOPs, which was first registered and led by Podlas. It's so that you know that they register, and then they don't do any work, and they don't have any perspective. Now, if you say so in essence. In fact, some of the standards in the adopted Law have been annulled for good. He's a cashback. But we know that the President's Office today is discussing re-establishing this cashback rule into other draft laws, and wait for it to happen. Why? Because it's very desirable for buyers to file complaints against the seller and be interested in getting a portion of the fine that will be collected from such a seller. So, really, in our country, you can put that in now, one person against another? We know what poverty can cause people to do. This is the subject that we need to discuss, and you, the "ministers of the people," who are here, raised that you raised yourself to the faction and did not allow this approach to return at this very time. Perhaps at some point when the software RRO is running, which is what the head of the profiling committee so bravely declared to you. Actually, 134 thousand software RROs are the ones that work from the computer. There is no way that gadgets will involve software that will enable you not to buy an iron cashier, but to work in a software RRO. So this is a fiction so far. I wanted the software RRO to stay at work, so it's already started. But the software RRO is not available to all entrepreneurs. Who's on the street? These are ordinary entrepreneurs who don't work in large cities who work in tents in different trading venues, and who can't really use software because they don't have software because they don't have it, but they need to buy a cool cashier that doesn't work in winter for minus 20. So the return from January 1 exactly the 22nd year of fiscalization to all species is completely unrealistic, even for technical reasons, we need to think about that. This bill, like everyone else, can be supported and further developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u41	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy, Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u42	Please give it to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u43	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u44	Here's a Ukrainian entrepreneur who's having an interesting conversation that even the heads of the financial committee are no longer in the hall. This is how small business needs people's servants. They don't need him at all. I'll complete my colleagues. First of all, Nina Petrovna said that she could push someone, and we forget about corruption, and as law enforcement authorities, who are doing economic surveillance, how they're going to use this money against entrepreneurs, and who they're going to send to destroy under the orders of certain competitors. And we understand that big business is going to stay, all the networks are going to stay, and small entrepreneurs are just going to leave our country. Then another important aspect that has already been touched is smuggling. I couldn't do it on the committee then. Sorry, the Gethmans were never able to answer (Dmitry Alexanderovich is probably watching a meeting) why and how this bill will help fight the smuggling. We didn't understand, he couldn't answer. Why, then, did all of this come about? About the software RRO. What it costs, I completely agree, and I've talked about it. But we still need to keep in mind that most of us are not covered by the Internet. We don't have most of the border areas of Ukrainian television right now: Chernigivska, Sumska, other areas are looking at the border of Belarusian or Russian television. And you're talking about the Internet, about electronic checks?Oh, my God! They don't even know about it. You can increase the volume of turnover. You can increase for them, improve all conditions. Businessmen, if there are those who work gray, will definitely come out of the shadows. But they do not need to reduce and aggravate business conditions. For all your last initiatives. In past sessions, we have adopted very good laws: the reintegration of our employees. What else did you take? "Investigation." Promises of billions of investments. Well, how do you support some reintegration in this room? Who's going to come back to you, and what kind of entrepreneurs are going to work here, open up a business, if you're the ones we have now, you're not keeping them, you're creating conditions for them all to go and leave this country? It's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u45	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Sergey Anatolyovich. He's handing over Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u46	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Ladies and gentlemen, this room is where a coalition has come together to support the Ukrainian business and, indeed, the opposition to the majority. A full room of people. Look, there's a room full of monogamous people who want to keep Ukrainian small, medium and large businesses. In fact, as Paul the Bakunite said, people are standing on the street under the rain, waiting for us to make a decision that we signed 150 national deputies, not foreign deputies, in order to support business today. Once again, Ukraine stands on the pillars of a small, medium, large business that has been built for 30 years. When my father and I went out with tailors, from other countries, we brought goods, then we reselled, we quietly grew our business back then, and we were constantly hampered. And today, most people are doing everything they can to destroy what has been built over the years. Just recently, I was going to do business with Rubizny. They said that in our reception, and we have 26 of them: to the Most High, to Sukhov, to Lukasheva throughout the whole region, come and contact us. We are approached, but unfortunately, the saying does not work, and one person can put on the equipment of justice and overcome the entire army of sin. How long can you fight? Against what? Against that swamp that's dragging our nation into an economic crisis today? People see it. Today, a political apprentice matures, who will be taken and cut. I wouldn't want that. We would like a peaceful survival so far, Ukraine and development, not business ruin, not the destruction of everything that has been built today. Dear colleagues of the majority who are present here, please contact your colleagues to return to the hall and vote in favour of these bills. We also demand that Bill 2070 on the free economic zone of Donbas be introduced into the hall. We're also asking you to put to the vote Bill 6064, which prohibits people being shut down today during the hot season of turning people off. Because Lvivščina, Mikolayevščina, Odščina, Luhanščina, Donečina – the whole country today suffers from the fact that the monopolies have already run to disconnect from the heat, from the light, from the electricity – there is nothing to pay. Other countries, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u47	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Vasil Ivanovich, please wait for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u48	Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone on. Dear colleagues, I will not discuss the content of the bill. I want to do a legal analysis of what's in our room today. There were representatives of "Trust," as they are concerned that people are getting wet there, that people are freezing and coming. Where were you before when you voted in favour of that oligarch law, when you violated the Constitution and violated all the laws of the Rules? I wish we weren't standing in the position of some commercial. Let's take a look, and look and admit it, say, from "Trust" a colleague, but I believe that the "ministers of the people" are sabotaged and absent in the hall. And that should be known to those who are under the Supreme Council. That the "ministers of the people" had left the Supreme Council Hall to not vote on these laws, which were aimed at protecting entrepreneurs whose at least 2 million only registered. Isn't this bill that we wrote and prepared from the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life", 4490, check where it is that people, who, in fact, are responsible for the state and power, the intelligence of the nation, are driven to the bench and under the counter, that people are hopeless. This led them to work in Korea, Finland, and Poland. These are our women, these are our women, our respectable colleagues, encouraged and working in Europe, more loyally, in public homes. And you know how many thousands, hundreds. Danilo is here, and I respect him. Dear colleague, you are the head of the committee, if you are the head of the committee, why didn't it be asked not to discuss today the issue of protecting the interests of the enterprise? On what basis? Who gave you the right to usurp the authority of the Nardeps and the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Dear colleagues, it's impossible. Unless we adhere to article 3 of the Constitution, our task is to protect life, health, honor and dignity, the dignity of those under the Supreme Council. And that's what you have to say in real terms, not go out and make some failed drafts. You knew you weren't going to vote. And I'd like you to point out to all of Ukraine that there's no one here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u49	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kachuri Alexandre Anatoliyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u50	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. "Serves" is. In fact, I'd like to go to those people who came to Parliament today, not in this warm and comfortable room, but under the walls under the pouring rain. They came for their own good, they stood up for their own interests, and they didn't ask for anything. They're people who give themselves jobs that create jobs that pay taxes. But let's be honest, there's bad news for entrepreneurs, because today's drafts, they're just out of date. These bills, which we have in the order of the day’s emergency meeting, are simply irrelevant in view of the changes that have already been made. And there's good news for entrepreneurs. I know there's an active job going on with SaveFOP, with Sergey Dorothych. And in just the last three weeks, Alexander Kornienko and David Arahamai have met about three times with representatives of this organization to draft a joint bill, a compromise, timely one that will please entrepreneurs. And I call upon all political factions to join in this work on the basis of our interfractional parliamentary union, which is called "Save FOP", which advocates the successive interests of entrepreneurs within the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm sure entrepreneurs don't need to despair. Today’s session, you might say, was clear that it would not get the required number of votes. So we continue our work to create new jobs so that we can have a comfortable business, so that people can look with confidence at tomorrow and in the future. To plan the future of their children right in Ukraine. So I support everything that's going on in small businesses. Let's work together on drafts for all political factions, bring them to the hall and adopt these bills by a constitutional majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes each, up to six minutes. Will they be wanted by the national MPs? Will they or won't they? They will be. Please sign up. We're going in full procedure, I'll remind you. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u52	Please give the word to Ichchenk Wadima.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u53	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u54	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. As colleagues continue to speak, I will say that you and I and the government need to think about how to develop employment in the country. That's what anyone's talking about, sorry, and in the Supreme Council, including, but no one's doing anything to increase employment. Many American funds are looking at Ukraine as well as where to invest, which businesses to invest, but the question of uncertainty, the question of changing the permanent tax system, the question of what we're doing to large corporations, colleagues. So let me give you an example: Denmark. Today, Denmark has high agricultural production, but because of its cooperatives, small family farmers dispose of their produce. Do you know how much sales are made in Danish cooperatives? More than three times in the DTEK Corporation, Danish farmers only sell their products. I'm not talking about France or the cooperative movement in France anymore. Colleagues stick to what small ones create, unite, receive incentives, receive direct cheap loans, and this is government policy. What about us? We're trying to introduce RRO, we're actually lobbying the interests of the big retailers, putting them in one frame with a small entrepreneur. It's a load for them. I understand why the big fans do this, but what did the state do for the small and the small? What has the State done for those who want to develop business, and I don't talk about how to survive the pandemic? My colleagues, once again, I want to remind you of large corporations or large corporations. The same American Starbucks, colleagues, it was created by one man known all over the world, and large other corporations started either from a family or from one person, I called them. Let's think about it and talk about it, let's if we're going to have a session with you, let's make decisions and make decisions, helping small and small businesses. Well, shouldn't we say that they're standing here today begging us to adopt laws, and we're the leader of the SaveFOP movement. We're talking about power, and it's you, colleagues, with your hands, that you're holding it for today because it's holding a rally, for it's trying to reach out to you, for it's trying to make laws with factions, and for you to consider and make decisions. Colleagues, that's not fair. And that attitude, it will never be sustained by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u55	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, and we will then move on to making a decision. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u56	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate once again that the Opposition Platform for Life supports all legislative initiatives proposed by the drafters of the bill today. There are our colleagues who are co-authors of the legislative initiatives. I would like to say without populism that, of course, the process of detinction in the national economy is right. We all know the figures given to us by the international financial institutions and the domestic financial and economic institutions, and the ministries, intelligence about the share or the pitiful weight of the shadow sector in the national economy. However, in our view, in post-quade conditions, in postlockdown, when we have a drop in basic macroeconomic indicators, even in the areas of activity that perhaps today are in view of both the profile committee and the economic bloc of today's authorities, need substantial modernization or transformation. So our proposal is, of course, to postpone, to postpone the implementation of all of the claimed processes that were, in order not to just drag off, but to save jobs, to save the tax base, to save the consumer market, and so on. That's the first one. Second, about the national economy. I can't help but notice, I want to take advantage of the rostrum, and having the right to speak about the decline of the national economy, because this continuation is going to be our theme. Because given that we have a fall in gross domestic product, not growth or gradual recovery, but a fall. Because even what we're taking from the State, in the third quarter of this year, the country's GDP increased by 5.7 percent. It looks like an incredible figure, but if we take a similar quarter last year, the drop is 11.2 percent, if we calculate the indices there and divide the product by 100, it's going to be minus 6.14 percent. This is the real situation, we're actually losing a lot of the national economy. Therefore, in our view, the support of such a bill is extremely relevant, other legislative initiatives to make small, micro, medium and even large businesses contribute to the real sector of the national economy, to the country's GDP and to make it more than just the economy, and Ukrainian citizens live in dignity. Well, I also have a proposal, Your Honorable Ruslan Alexiyovich, that the following draft laws should also be put to the vote, without further discussion so that we can accept and torture people on the street as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u57	Well, it's only going to depend on the hall, and I've only got to follow the procedure that's foreseen. But thank you for the offer. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of this project. I understand that the authors don't insist on any further revisions and we can go to the vote, on additional lines. Dear colleagues, I will put in the order laid down in the committee's decision. So I'm proposing to the committee to adopt a bill of 2645-d: draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation to eliminate the rules that provide for an increase in fiscal pressure by expanding the scope of the application of accountancy registers. Ready? Please vote. [[17:08:05]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. If not accepted, I'll bet the next one. Let's see the factions. My next suggestion is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. This is according to Bill 2645-d, the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. [[17:08:45]] For 109 The decision is not taken. I'm going to make the following decision: send it to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of bill 2645-d. Please support and vote. [[17:09:10]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected. Dear colleagues, we have two more bills to vote on. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I can't count, run any additional registrations and so on, so there's an offer to move on. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Bill 2645: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation to eliminate the rules that provide for an increase in fiscal pressure by extending the scope of the application of accountancy registers. Please vote. [[17:10:14]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to draft Bill No. 2645. Please vote. [[17:10:41]] For 128 The decision is not taken. I'll put the vote to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of bill 2645. Please vote. [[17:11:08]] For 132 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected. You can't do that for a reason, we don't deal with the issue in fact, we vote. Let's vote on the third bill, and then you'll tell it. Please, who wants out of the procedure? Ivanovich. Oh, we can't, we have to finish, then you're out of procedure. We have to finish. 2645-1. I bet. This is the next meeting of the Supreme Council, which has yet to be understood. Dear colleagues, once again, we are now in the vote on these issues. And that's why. Before that, we had considered these issues. And where you've been before, I don't know. Dear colleagues, I'm voting 2645-1. I'll take the offer as a basis. Please vote. [[17:12:24]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. I would like to make the following suggestion: To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing 2645-1. Please vote. [[17:12:48]] For-129 The decision is not taken. And I'd like to make a final suggestion: send it to the committee for re-reading Bill 2645-1. Please vote. [[17:13:16]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. All bills are regarded as rejected. So let's move on, dear fellows. Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u58	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Ruslan, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 161 national deputies were registered at the next meeting of the Supreme Council. Now it's a fraction of the majority in which 250 people's deputies are given. A total of less than 60 ballots, less than a fifth of those present in the majority, when it comes to the FOPs to be protected, and the small business. I would like to point out that we can't put any decision to a vote, even by a reduced procedure, because there are physically no majority deputies in the room. We suggest that you re-register in the hall, and if there's no majority, stop this circus, you don't have to cheat people who are waiting for decisions that can't be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u59	Out of procedure, please, the Gethmans. Then Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, in order for the majority to meet in the hall and we have a really large majority of you to make decisions, we need to legislate for the session, which makes legal sense at least, not laws that are completely out of date. And taking people out on the street with real demands, not with the demands, is just a matter of pouting around the roost. And the fact that colleagues didn't come to the hall today, that's their vote, that's the political position, that's the answer to your masculine populism, that you, using taxpayers' money, are now just stupidly pinging on the stand of the Supreme Council and putting people out on the street instead of working for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u61	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, you have just heard what the committee head said about meaning. Mr. Danilo, what's the point of your speech? What do you want to cover? What started the session in an illegal, unconstitutional way, and now you're pushing for the executive headship, that's another question that he's doing, and the question of another question is the power of the subject and the authority of the Supreme Council to make decisions. People come here to listen, and you're here to tell us the meaning. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues, if we're already on the fairway of unconstitutional action, be good, admit it, you're doing it all through.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u63	Please, who else wants out of the procedure? Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko and Anton Eduardoovich Polakov, moving on to the next question. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u64	Dear people! Notice where your "servants" are now. An empty hall, because the "servants" ran after their envelopes. Here the journalists published that for the law they had just voted, they had just given them a bonus, they had already run, you know, to blend in. And what's happening in the hall right now is that the opposition said they didn't make sense of the opposition bill, the opposition's amendments made no sense. The only thing that makes sense in this room is the "servicing" envelopes, that's all that makes sense. I'm actually very surprised that journalists love, you know, there's a way to take pictures of purses, that kind of thing, and notice how the "servants" have come in these two years. Take note, then, of all of them. They came in plastic vans here, and now they're on each of them about a thousand times 30 every day, you know, renewals. It's very interesting that these things are declared, so please look at all of these. Well, and the great shame, my friends, is that now that the laws of the FOP are being considered, the "servants" are not here, and the head who now presides over the meeting is not paying attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, who else will? Either Polyakov or Urbanski, decide which one of you is going to be. Yes, Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u66	First of all, I'd like to say that the envelopes have already been delivered to men's and women's cleaners. This time. And secondly, I want to remind Mr. Daniel that someone on the populism and came to this Supreme Council, someone did become an MP when he was just doing populism. I want to remind you of that memo you signed. And the first item is to be present at all the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council. That's what you promised, your people's servants. Where did everyone get sick or shit? Tell me where you are! Tell our Ukrainians how you work and what you get your salary for. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u67	Yes, your honor, Shahov and Kachura, and let's move on to the next question. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u68	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u69	Oh, I'm sorry, the Gethmans were. Ducks, next time. Please, yes. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u70	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, please tell us where you decided to fill the budget with 600 billion bracelets, Mr. Danilo? That's what everyone said, but the tides started to go to other places, and they just went to other places, not the state budget. Secondly, please tell me why in Lugansk the price of electricity is 5.70. Did the NCREKP decide that it was Lugansk and the Donetsk region that should pay for those occupied territories and that there was only a war going on? Next. Why should people today pay for gas and transit pipes? Why didn’t people today, for example, in Reuben City, where I was gathering people, especially entrepreneurs, receive 8,000 dollars? This is "The Dawn," the children's room, the animators, the children's animators, they didn't give them 8,000 bracelets. Your Honor, where did the money go? Did you put those billions in your pocket again? Who will be responsible? Who today will take responsibility for the money of UNICEF that is being robbed? 68 million dollars were allocated to a school in Eusug. Who Will Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded discussions on the procedure. Let's move on to the next question. I'm sorry, I promised. I've got a break with a replacement for the show. Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please, from the "ES" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u72	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I'm addressing all Ukrainians now. In fact, we were now considering the laws on FOPs. As you say, there are no servants of the people, they don't need it for a hundred years. Before that, it was as if we had considered the Law on Deligarchy. So this is absolutely the law on one thing: the monarchization of Ukraine under Vladimir I, as he sees itself, Vladimir Zelensky. I literally want a few things after all this noise that's been here, almost fighting so that you can actually hear the truth. What does this law give? This law gives one person, the President of Ukraine, it says "The Council of National Security," but I want to let you know that the President of Ukraine can bring whoever he wants into the MPO. This is how Sergio Leschchenka guides the supervisory board, reintroduces it, can be introduced into the PNB, and can be introduced to his driver, security guard, or someone else. So it forms a single composition of the PNB. And this PNB decides that, look, we decided that this is, this is bad, this is good. Do you understand what this is going to be? It's gonna start right now, you don't want to be bad, you take a good bag of money and you bring it to Bank here so you don't get declared an oligarch. This is huge corruption, my friends, and we've already seen it through smugglers. Next, the second one that gives this bill, which they voted today, is to influence the media to talk less on television screens, how they rob the country, when they don't keep their promises, cover it all up, and then they feel like everything will be okay in life. That's the second part that they've adopted this bill for. And that's why, friends, part three. Our Parliament officially applied to the Venice Commission for Democracy through Law, asked for their legal analysis of the bill. They said we'd give it in two months. And what did we do? They passed the law, not expecting any conclusions from Europeans. Because they knew very well that they should not wait, for they would never be able to support this. And that's why they spit on it. So, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I want to remind you one thing: all of this in Ukraine will not go away and end with one, Rostov. And so I want to give you a little tour of what Rostov is. This is a city in the south of Russia. It is located in the southeast of the Eastern European plain, on the banks of the Don River, 46 km from its point of descent into the Azov Sea. The city is a large administrative cultural center in Russia. The President's order even assigned him the title "city of military glory." It's on the right bank of the Don River, on the left bank there are some industrial enterprises. It concentrates on the core of the industrial potential of southern Russia. Among the interesting facts are the geographical boundaries that divide the border between Europe and Asia. The left bank is Asia. You belong in Asia, Vladimir Zelensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next question we need to consider is Bill 3853, 3853-1, 3853-2. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to change the approach to determining the amount of income to apply a simplified system of taxation. But the bill requires its inclusion in the agenda. To that end, 226 national deputies must vote. If it is not involved, we cannot consider it today. So I propose to include these three bills in the agenda of the day: 3853 and two alternatives: 3853-1, 3853-2. Please support and vote. [[17:24:37]] For 115 The decision is not taken. We can't look at this bill. And the last bill today, which is included, is two bills, which are basic and alternative. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to simplify the calculation of the income of natural persons entrepreneurs is the registration number of Project 3993 and 3993-1. Dear colleagues, I propose that these two bills be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:25:28]] For-100 The decision is not taken. We are going into the full process of discussing this issue. I invite the author of the bill, Ukrainian national MP Labazuk Sergio Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u74	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Labazuk Sergey, Hmělniččina. Unfortunately, I have to start my speech, not from the bill's report, but from the sad fact that we're already meeting tonight, because there's no political will in this sessionary room of majority to support small business. Yes, for a long time, SaveFOP gathers, starting in winter, in Ukraine’s areas, both in Kiev and in areas, in order to regain power over the fact that they want to have the right to work and feed their families rather than to go abroad. The Prime Minister of Ukraine promised to bring people back to Ukraine, but the march, I see, everything is done to get those entrepreneurs who worked today to create jobs, to support and continue to support the social sphere, to quit their jobs and to go to Poland to earn money. Perhaps this is how one of the requirements of our external partners is fulfilled. Yet, when we speak in essence, we are faced with SaveFOP’s decision on the street. They were on the phone, as soon as I was talking to SaveFOP of the Hmielničnina who were watching, and they were sad to see that even those people's deputies from Hmmelničničnina, from the Hmmelničnina group who signed for supporting them, were not present in the session hall for this moment. Bill 3993 is actually very simple in its essence, and the problem it solves is simple and very important to the FOPs. After the adoption of the Ukrainian Law 786-IX on the Functioning of the Electronic Cabinet for the FOPs, which essentially cancelled the Book of Accounting on the daily completion of their activities, from a public point of view, it was the right thing to do. And if you say, if you want to move in this direction, yes. The right to monthly display of income in arbitrary form instead of daily filling is the right idea. But from a legal point of view, what do we have? This arbitrary conduct has lost the status of the so - called primary, to which our entrepreneurs have become accustomed, and in itself cannot be sufficient grounds for tax reporting. Appropriately, all FOPs will have to apply the so - called RRO to every action that our entrepreneurs are not ready for today as a minimum in rural areas. So there was an absolute dissatisfaction of FOPs from all over Ukraine, as we already know, and especially from regions where digitization can't be as progressive as in capital, and people are used to paper reporting. Let's face it, in a large number of villages the state of affairs for today does not yet have a high-speed Internet or a web that can provide a normal form of PRO. As for the GNEU’s observation, I would like to emphasize a few words. The first observation on the problem of daily living based on the working day of reflecting income from possible pressure on the FOPs, as was said to me, is a complete absurdity, since such a mechanism acted before the adoption of Law 786-IX and recommended itself. And it was at the request of the FOPs in Bill 3993 that we proposed that this rule be restored. And the second. With regard to the inclusion of article 44 in the original documents, this is again the established standard of the old law that has been in force and has still satisfied entrepreneurs. So the book of accounting is similar to the first one. Entrepreneurs ask for this form to be returned to them. And the term of validity of the law. We can settle the second reading of this question. So, colleagues, I understand, unfortunately, that there are not enough votes in the session room today to have a law adopted, but I am still asking you to show the will of those present and to support our small business. Well, whoever has already counted it necessary to show their political will not to support small business today, be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u75	Dear colleagues. No, no, wait, Sergey Petrovich, the question to you may be. Question is, yes, we're in full swing. Please register who wants to ask a question to the reporter. Please. Please give the word "Moroz Volodymyr Viktorovich," the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u76	Please tell Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u77	Please, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would like to address you as an academic at the National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine and a well-known law specialist. Please just say, honestly, do you really believe that in the presence of 167 national deputies in the session room, this Supreme Council is responsible for enacting Ukrainian laws?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u79	Is that a question for me?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u80	Yes, yes, to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u81	Yeah, I'll give you an answer. There is no reason in the Rules to close the meeting of the Supreme Council on the grounds that you do not seem to have a number of deputies, unfortunately. Please, let me ask you another question. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u82	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear reporter, I know you started a long time ago when you weren't an MP you started a business with a small business. Now you're famous or, let's say, your business is known throughout the hops. I thank you for your support for small and medium-sized business, and you're going to report in detail directly what you need to do, because you're famous and you understand that it's a small business that will keep busy and an economy in the countryside. But I wanted to ask you? How do you, a person who has already achieved much, react to the fact that there is no majority in the hall, no one listens to what is said, no one wants to solve the issue that you are dealing with today regarding the direct protection of small and medium-sized businesses? Please state your personal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u83	Thank you, colleague. You know, it's very simple, it's probably going to be the answer. I was surprised today by the comments of one of our colleagues who said that there would be a majority coming to work when the bills were so-called correct. I don't know in any document or in the Rules or in procedures where there is such a rule that a national MP can determine for his own reasons whether the bill is appropriate or inappropriate, then come to work. If today our voters, the citizens of Ukraine, hear that there is such an opportunity to come to work when they consider it appropriate or inappropriate, I think we will not bring Ukraine there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u84	Please, Chigos Ahtem Zeitullajovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u85	Mrs. Jujanini, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u86	Please tell us, all of the years ago or nine months ago, we have seen some major even disturbances at the Supreme Council, a huge number of entrepreneurs who were then opposed to adopted laws 128 and 129. And they picked up the flag and asked us to look at 3853 there 1 and 2. Today, due to the absence of deputies in the Supreme Council and the ineligibleness of this meeting, we have missed the most important laws for entrepreneurs. What do you think you should do next? How can we continue to help people to work in their country? How? Will we be able to cope and provide some effective help?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u87	Thank you for asking, Nina Petrovna. I think you and I have an obvious and very simple answer. We have, indeed, met with you many times over the year. These meetings were held both in the center, in Kiev, and in the territories. During the summer of the holiday, I think that the Marjorie deputies met with entrepreneurs on the spot, and we got orders from them and promised to do so, including considering the bills. Unfortunately, today we see a propaganda -- an evening session that is purely sabotaged by one of the great factions of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u88	Thank you. Come on, please. No, not Krulko, it's about time. The national deputy of Ukraine, Nina Petrovni, is given the floor for presentation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u89	Mr. Stefanchuk, everyone's demanding a re-registration. Please turn it on for me first. Dear Ukrainians, I apologize for such an appearance in the Supreme Council Hall. And I'd like to divide my speech into three parts. I think it's the first time I've been given this opportunity to tell you a lot of important things. First. I'd like you to know, on all televisions, very active "ministers of the people," especially the chief "minister of the people," they say that they are the ones who have adopted the anti-offshore package of laws. I want you all to understand what this is. First. This is, indeed, the draft law adopted by this call, which was, of course, prepared by the previous call, on the exchange of information between countries, on all tax information and the possibility of obtaining it by Ukraine. This system should work, but since our tax system is not prepared to process this information and apply it for the benefit of the country, it still takes a long time for this law to work and benefit the state. The next thing is reporting for controlled foreign companies, so-called KIC reporting. It's also developed by the previous parliament, voted, true, and it actually provides for a report on the income of controlled foreign companies in 2023 in 2022. But they're trying to push it back for a couple more years, because you're fighting, more loyally, you're doing everything you can to keep this system going and no one is going to fight against income that's not taxed but should be taxed in Ukraine. And most of all. In fact, exemptions were accepted from taxing all income in cash and in natural form that would be granted to owners of these foreign companies in the liquidation of offshore companies. The state is under $7 billion in government budget. Part two, I'd like to dedicate to the missing draft law on FOPs, 3853-1. In fact, even from a technical point of view, this bill can be adopted in the first reading. It would be a good signal for entrepreneurs that maybe not everything, but there will be no compromise and total fiscalization from January 1, 2022. But they ignored the meetings, the next meeting of the Supreme Council, most of the "ministers of the people," so there's no way to look at it in the hall. And the next question that we're actually looking at is the draft Law, 3993. Dear colleagues, when you vote in the hall, be more careful, because in fact 128th and 129th laws were voted by the majority of factions in the hall, and that's what one faction rightly called it. Look at the time to avoid biting elbows. Because you think you voted once to the "slaves of the people" and everything will be fine, and now you've led so many people out into the street. I took the latest data, so in 2021 the FOPs paid 52 billion dollars in the budget, the only tax on employment taxes, 52 billion. Do these people not deserve attention and consideration of the vitals of this hall? So shame is indeed to all those who have not come! 52 billion. If you, a country, don't want to get them and you push people out of Ukraine, it's going to be another collapse, because they're all standing there now and everyone's making decisions, not staying here anymore. And when you say that we're going to support people who will come back from abroad to Ukraine with at least some amount of money, so among those who are standing there, and there are already those people. I met several families in Lviv who had returned from Poland, put in their business, and now they have to close. And that's the most important thing. Notice, the "ministers of the people" who are here, please review your position. There's nothing we can do in this room right now. But apparently the question has matured, and very few months have passed. Don't let the fiscal law gain power from January 1nd, 22. That's all that matters. And then we'll talk about the details. Because today we should discuss what activities should remain on the simplified tax system. Isn't it interesting to all of us, to all of society, what do we think, where do we think we have more people in microbusiness right now? We talked, by the way, at the Ukrainian Women's Congress, that a large number of women are actually doing microbusiness on a simplified tax system. They also addressed the First Lady, conveying words to President Zelenski, please note that by destroying the simplified tax system, you are destroying the possibilities for those who, in addition to feeding their families, have a huge social function in this country. So be careful, do not frame people, and do not do worse for them than can be done in the country, and you will do so with your own hands. So it's urgent to break 128 and 129, these laws are shameful. The time has come when we can no longer draw, no more days for us to come to terms, to make some other draft law. We had to take it today, put it on a profile committee, and let the profile committee do what we can. And that would indeed be the possession of a committee of profile and servants of the people. And so technically, we don't have the ability to completely consider any draft laws, and yet we don't have the ability to talk about any of our gains. What are the gains? 2 million people on the street, that's all the profits? So this is a very, very sensitive subject. And we didn't discuss it properly. Again, we did not make decisions in behalf of the people. So I'm just asking you, everyone who knows a colleague from the "slaves of the people," everyone talk to them, you have to talk to the President in the very next few days, you have to talk to each other cleanly and openly, you have to do something urgent. They can't gain the strength of the standards that are absolutely impossible to apply as of January 1nd, 22nd, to those people who are standing on the street. And then I want to give you some figures and some facts, but it's going to be later, and now we can ask questions if you have any colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u90	Nina Petrovna, are you insisting on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u91	How many minutes do I have?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u92	You still have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u93	As far as my draft Law 3993-1 is concerned. He appeared after a draft of Law 2524 was adopted in the hall. At the time, I argued that the text of the law was prepared by the committee in preparation for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, and the text was adopted without regard to what was going on in the room. You know, I went to all the law enforcement agencies, and the D.B.I. broke the case for that fact on 19.10.20. Today, thank God, I now have in my hands the conclusion of an expert who conducted an linguistical semi-textual expert study, perhaps for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism. But I had to do it because the "ministers of the people" ignore every word we say, they say we're lying. Thus, it is concluded that the study confirms that in the final text of the law the text is falsified and does not correspond to the amendments that were considered in the Supreme Council Hall. This means that within the framework of this criminal investigation, the people who forged the text of the law, signed by Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, must be held accountable. It's been almost a year. It seems to me that if we looked so closely at the actions of "ministers of the people," they would not allow themselves to be loosely guided in this Supreme Council. So you're going to answer, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-23-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a paradoxical situation, and according to the request of the leadership of the three factions -- the faction of European Solidarity, the Fatherland, the Opposition Platform for Life -- I understand that, and with the support of the "Serve of the People" faction -- I am forced to put to a signal vote, a rating signal vote now, how many votes we have in the room to understand how to move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're on our way. I can take it to the right of the chairman, the chairman, I want to put it on the rating signal vote now, how many people are in the room. Please vote. [[17:46:43]] For-86 Please, by the factions. Calmly, dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have it. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, at this I propose to close our next meeting. Thank you.
