ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The Honourable Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button or the first left button with the sensor button. Does everyone remember that? Are you ready to register? Please register. [[11:00:51]] There are 285 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Honourable National Deputies, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Heads of central executive bodies, heads of the judicial branch. The present officials of the Supreme Council are appointed, appointed, and assigned. Representatives of the media. Heads of diplomatic representation of foreign states and heads of representatives of international organizations accredited in Ukraine, other officials. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation has been announced. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u2	Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u3	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u4	Good day again, dear fellows! It's good to see you today. Today, we begin the sixth session of the ninth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not going to say that it's going to be an asset because any session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is important to the state, because that's where the key decisions are made for our country, the laws under which the country lives and the reforms are being made. However, this session is somewhat different from others. We're on the equator with you today -- that's actually half of our cadence. We've come a long way, we've done a lot, but there's a lot ahead. On the equator, it's always hot, but I really hope that even if someone in this room wanted to do even hotter, healthier thinking and a desire to develop our state, they would still win. If you ask me and yourself, has much been done in these two years of our work together? The answer will be yes. Because reforms have been adopted, laws have been passed, and there is much that we have been able to do. But if the question is to be answered, has enough been done? The answer, unfortunately, will be no. Because we still have much to do in order to improve people’s lives. With regard to the priorities of the sixth session of the ninth call. First of all, you and I need to understand that difficult times and challenging challenges are facing Ukraine. We need to focus our attention on laws that can improve the social conditions of our citizens, ensure employment relations. And most importantly, today we are with you before the heating season, and the tariff issue, as always in autumn, is one of the key. I understand that this is a direct area of responsibility for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but Parliament, as always, is ready to join this process and do everything the Constitution and laws of Ukraine give us to help Ukrainian society in these difficult times. The second question is economic growth. Today the whole world is in an economic crisis. We see the effects of COVID, which unfortunately didn't end. Countries were always different at times of crisis. For someone, it was tramplin, and they were jumping, and someone was falling into the chasm. I'm sure in this room we're all focused on going the first way. Many laws that are drawn up at the committee level that I hope will be passed soon. This is also the Localization Act that our colleagues were talking about today. It makes it possible, according to experts, to get up to 4 percent of additional GDP growth and up to 60,000 jobs. It's also the Innovation Parks Act, which is under review today, I hope we can adopt it. Because on business trips in Ukraine, I'm sure you're also talking to business, talking to local authorities, we've all heard that we need to create additional opportunities, additional positions for an investor to go to Ukraine. An important aspect of today is the issue of fighting COVID at both tactical and strategic levels and at the level of preparation of a new budget that we will be working with you soon. We have to provide our medics, we have to provide our hospitals, and the main thing is those patients who, God forbid, will go back to the hospital. The next question that always stands in the autumn session is the budget issue. Today we have heard assurances from the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and I think Mr. Prime Minister will also confirm that. By September 15, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should have received a draft of a corrosive for the next year of our country's main financial document, which is where we are all with you, and in this room, and beyond, we will live. As always, the main efforts will be directed at the work of the profiling committee, but, as always, all committees will join in this process and work as well as possible on the draft that we're about to receive. I ask everyone here to be as constructive as possible in order to really go through everything, both by the Rules and by logic, and to preserve the goals and tasks that people have set before us. That's four questions. And the fifth question is right. Right in the broad sense of the word. This is also the judicial reform that is taking place today. And those laws that we pass in this room, and those laws that we all have to live by, regardless of the national MPs, we're either doctors or teachers, or anyone in this state. The law must be one for all, and I'm sure you and I have to set an example in this regard. These are just five directions that I think we should focus on. But this is certainly not a comprehensive list of issues that we will be addressing with you. There's going to be a lot of quick challenges that we have to respond to, there's going to be a lot of other problems, and that's going to have to be recognized, but the Supreme Council is going to get through them. You and I live in the parliamentary-presidential Republic and we are all in this room to answer to the people who chose us here. Everyone is power and opposition. In the sense of people, we're all power. In the sense of people, the future depends on us. And we have to act so that respect for Parliament increases, not falls, so that people don't feel ashamed of our work with you. You and I are on the equator, and I urge you all to work constructively together, as we have demonstrated on more than one occasion. And without looking at it, I repeat, that we are on the equator, and I very much hope that none of us will get in our heads and that we will be able to move this country forward. Thank you. We've all been successful and won.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the distinguished government, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable colleagues, and we will move on to our work. Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich, thank you, colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. Members of the MPs and groups are kindly requested to sign up for an appearance from the rostrum. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, distinguished producers! We are starting a new political season, and the country is expecting us to make decisions that will be extremely important both to the state and to the economy of the state, and above all to the people. Today, one of the main themes of society’s greatest concern is the start of a heated season. It's the price of gas, the price of electricity, and, of course, subsidies. Since 2019 the total amount of subsidies has decreased annually. So in 2019 it was 58 billion, in 2020 it was 37 billion dollars, and in the current 2021 it was 35 billion dollars. According to Eurostat, some 40 percent of Ukrainians working today are outside the poverty line. That is, almost 6 million families are virtually giving up what is needed. The decline in the real level of income of Ukrainians increases their debt for residential services. By 1 July of this year, Ukrainians owed more than 66 billion dollars, the largest debts to people were accumulated for supplies, and the distribution of natural gas — nearly 25 billion dollars. In view of this debt situation, the government has to review the existing methodology for calculating the wholesale price of natural gas. In our opinion, it has to take into account, first of all, the actual cost of Ukrainian gas, this approach will allow a substantial reduction in the market price for our consumers. We don't know what's going to happen to the electrocution. The heating season is about to begin, the minister of energy is silent, people don't know what to expect or what to expect. Turning to the subject of subsidies, the government recently corrected the situation by adopting 842 Regulations, including a grant to citizens who sold their homes and bought others. But there's still a lot of problems with another category of citizens -- citizens who are unjustly deprived of subsidies. For example, they are people who for months don't get paid when businesses don't work, and as a result, the state refuses to grant them subsidies because there are debts for utilities. So these criteria need to be viewed, not on point, but on a systematic basis. Unfortunately, today we do not see it. That's why the Trust MP group requires that we hold a separate government meeting on an urgent basis, which will only apply to the heating season. People are looking forward to resolving the tariff situation, with subsidies, and we need to give them a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u7	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Ukraine recently met its 30th anniversary. I remember how we really met and enjoyed the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. Then we lived with hope. What did we come here with in the 1930s? We have come with the poverty of our citizens, the loss of control over our territories, unfortunately, from the destruction of our military and peaceful citizens. And what did the new authorities expect? That all of this will end, that hope will come back. What do we have? We have an increase in wages to record 4 billion dollars, rapid inflation, price increases, and tariff increases. People can no longer live at such prices. What's going on today? When they start to talk about it, even the national MPs want to ban it because of special laws. The rulings of the NBO outside the court shut down TV channels – "112", ZIK, NewsOne. The decision of the SBU closed down the First Independent, and we've been stuck on the channel of the N.A.S. Television and Radio Council, which we're going to have to turn our representatives into a long time ago. The country's most popular news site, Strana.ua. For what? So that people do not tell the truth so that people have no other point of view than the one in power. Today, opposition is being persecuted for what, for not agreeing with the course of authority? That's what we're saying in court. The bear that is now being prosecuted illegally, without any evidence, says, "Yes, we don't agree with the course of authority, but it can't be a subject of criminal persecution, a restriction of will." Today, the OSCE Commissioner for Freedom of Speech, Mrs. Ribeiro, secondly drew the attention of the Ukrainian authorities to illegal closures and attempts to shut down TV channels and media resources. The head of the Freedom House, Mr. Michael Abramowitz, addressed the President of the United States with an open letter to the President of the United States on the protection of freedom of speech in Ukraine, the cessation of non-judgmental language, and the right to appeal. The authorities today fear the truth, the authorities fear the people, because nothing but "lovers of themselves" has been able to do good. "Big Construction" is a big rip-off. You have to be with people, not people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u9	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u10	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, today is a very good thing: today the equator and almost half of the cadence of this Supreme Council has worked in the sweat of the face, straining, exerting incredible effort (in paws). And in summary, even though all political forces are represented here, the Supreme Council has about 7 percent of the support in society. And that's why it's not for the MPs to evaluate their work, it's for the community. That's the first one. The other one. If this Supreme Council does not have the courage to unite around issues that really protect the national interests of Ukraine and the people, then the next equator will be reached by this Supreme Council with a zero rating. And that's why now I want to say it's over. The era of lobbyism in this Supreme Council must end when the first part of the equator was considered only by lobbyist laws ordered outside Parliament. And today I want to bring the steering team back to the slogan "the end of the poverty era." Either you do it, or you don't know why there were all these races and victories. And today I want to say one of the main problems in Ukraine. In this autumn, in order to combat the age of poverty, about one and a half times the tariffs are raised to heat, to hot water, to gas. This will mean that 80 percent of families will be insolvent. This is the collapse of Ukraine's energy system and the finances of our country. And so if there's a drop of conscience, we need to unite around to give the Ukrainian gas to the people, first of all, under Law 4680. And secondly, today we've registered a bill to put the money we got from the International Monetary Fund on grants today. That's roughly what we're offering a little bit more than a billion. This law is now in the CEDO, remember the figures, 632520. We want the maximum number of deputies to sign this law, and we need to adopt it immediately. Because after the heating period begins, there will be a collapse in the country and there will be a collapse in each family. And we also invite the Prime Minister and his group on Friday to listen to tariffs, subsidies, so that people will hear what they have to say. Either in this room they start thinking about people, or this Supreme Council just doesn't need anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u11	Network Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u12	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to two historic events that have taken place in the international arena, without exaggeration, which show that Ukraine and its image on the international arena and in international life are increasing. First of all, it is the success of the Crimea Platform. The Crimean platform brings back the problem of the return of Crimea to the international order of the day. We managed to involve many of our allies -- 46 countries, 46 countries came to Kiev to support us. The second important event that took place in foreign policy is an official visit by President Greens to the United States. I remind you that a joint statement has been signed that deals with extremely principled things. One is that Ukraine has a key role in the fight against the world of democracy and the world of authoritarianism. The second important thing that is mentioned is the common values that unite our people and the United States. It's very important, but at the same time it's simple values: it's democracy, it's human rights and it's the rule of law. Regrettably, the reaction to the Crimean Platform was another wave of repression against Crimean Tatars. One thing to remember, though, is that no means of pressure that Russia would apply to the Crimean Tatars would be able to break their will to victory and our will to return to Crimea. Crime was, is, and will be Ukrainian. That is, the return of Crimea to Ukraine will take place, to my conviction, in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u13	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u14	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. First of all, I would like to welcome today those who serve in military intelligence, greet them with their festival, wish them to remain our shield and our pride, to do their work conscientiously. I am convinced that other colleagues will do their job differently. But I would also like to talk to you today about Crimea and what happened on Sunday. Because to mention Crimea is not just to mention Crimea and Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians who stayed in Crimea on the day of the occupation, on Flag Day and so on. These are things that we have to say here every day, but after the actual five arrests that took place on Sunday, after the arrest of the deputy head of Majlis, Mr. Nariman Jellalov. And of course, after 50 detentions that took place on Sunday after people went to the rally. And what I'm saying is, of course, it's like a response to the Crimea platform. Question: What can we do here, how can we unite around this? Let me remind you, dear colleagues, that the election to the Duma of the Russian Federation will take place in a week. And what I'm going to tell you is that not only will the criminals who were forced to take Russian passports vote, but our Ukrainians who live in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk, Lugansk, after mass passporting. And I would like to understand what Ukraine's plan for this, except for the big statements. What's more, I'd like to see how many students have come here to study at higher education institutions after a year-and-a-half of a cadaver period, a difficult period when they haven't been released from entry points in Ukraine. But I would also like to point out that, in fact, September 10th is the beginning of a huge mass education by the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation. It's about West 2021 and actually accumulating about 200,000 military and plus over 800 military units that are actually going to be involved in this kind of training. Of course, this could be the answer to one of the most massive international teachings of the Sea Breeze, which took place at a very high level this year, was one of the largest or the largest in recent years. But once again, while we rejoice in Ukraine’s diplomatic success and rejoice after the consolidation of the 47 countries that came to Ukraine in August, we need to remember, understand our internal order of the day, what exactly and how, with what tools, we are ready to stand up for Ukrainians in Crimea, Ukrainians in ORDLO, those whose rights are being removed, and those who are being stifled in prison today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u15	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u16	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! Of course, September and December are essentially key months when the country determines what priority tasks will be for the following year. And it depends on how the country is going to tackle the challenges that are facing today in the economy, in energy, and the main thing is in the gas and electricity market. We see the price of gas rising rapidly, and this tells us that now, for the population and utilities, the government will have to raise tariffs and have to solve the question of how from the budget to patch up those holes that were not foreseen because of such a sharp increase in gas costs. What do we propose? Our parliamentary group, Political Party for the Future, suggests that we take and make a very specific approach to what Ukraine has, by chance, received from the International Monetary Fund. According to a decision of the IMF Governing Council, Ukraine will receive more than 2.7 billion dollars free of charge from the IMF without additional conditions. What does this talk about? This suggests that there is now an opportunity at the expense of these funds to resolve at least one or two strategic issues of the state's development. We're asking the government to bring in a specific programme over these two to three months to use these energy savings, to modernize utility companies, to modernize all state institutions, to replace boiler equipment, to heat up and so forth. And at the same time, we have the opportunity to reduce to 30 to 40 percent the cost of gas consumption, the cost of utilities. Think about that figure, 70 billion dollars today is going to get the country, that's 3 billion dollars can be allocated to each area. You can run a powerful industrial modernization program through the credit industry to buy equipment that reduces gas consumption, reduces electricity consumption and allows you to come out with a new quality of production and reduced self-sustainment to external markets. We also call on the government to conduct a program to modernise the energy conservation of Ukrzalznice. Each bracelet, invested in the energy conservation and electricity program at Ukrzalznice, will produce 5 or 7 bracelets of economic effect for two years. This means that it's an extremely interesting project that will give the opportunity and the cost right to invest, and get a very quick and quality result, load the Ukrainian industry, switch to Ukrainian electricity, cut costs and save tens of billions of dollars of money on other infrastructure things that can be invested in the state today -- locomotives, which means re-production, cars and so on. So we ask the government not to waste time and for two months to introduce a programme to be approved by Parliament -- an energy savings programme at the expense of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u17	Chigos. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome the Supreme Council with a new session, but in fact, the less this Parliament works, the better for the people. Because once the "servants" come together and emphasize something, then the people will tear it apart for a few years. You've written down 100 billion dollars to the oligarchs and it's you who passed the Law on Confiscation of Property in people who can't pay utilities. It was you who adopted a budget that eliminated the subsidy system and had frozen for two years to raise salaries for the Ukrainian military. Greensky's visit to the United States actually, except for the photographs, brought only one -- we can count on ourselves and the Ukrainian army. But now the question is, what should be the motivation of the Ukrainian soldier, who, for example, was paid 372 bracelets for a month of parade training?Oh, my God! In doing so, you did not all hesitate to go to so - called free concerts when, for the common people, you fenced the palace of Marien, and there you enjoyed life. Today, the actual debt owed to the army by goods, by combat, is about one and a half billion dollars. And that's your responsibility. And just as there was no new technology at the parade, except for autosacks, and Odessa had several new boats released in 18th year at Kuzna in Fishing, so now you and the Green Nightmare of War Generals who took responsibility for the army in the worst years. You know, during the days we visited the S.I.S.O., where Zelensky today kept the warlord General Pavlovsky, who saved and liberated Mariupol. Pavlovski is not just being sewn with green threads today because he allowed the Ukrainian army to be equipped with new boats, but he was still banned from essentially the right to appeal. Then the court will be replaced, the judges will not come, so the prosecutors will not appear. The investigator had already banned Paulowski from being brought to court, and the Internet had been cut off by the WHO so that he could appear in court. This reminds us of Yanukovich’s worst practices. And so it's obvious that social laws, laws that protect and support the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian pensioner, are the order of the day. We demand the adoption of our Law on the Thirteenth Retirement of Every Retirement You Robbed Today. And the oligarchs feel very good, and they don't stick around for SEZO. And that's why we support the initiative of the Commissioner-in-Charge of Dennis and other factions, and we call upon Mr. Speaker to send an expert to the Venice Commission this nonsense of the Bank, which is called the oligarch Act, because in fact today it's the Bank's.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u19	The time for the show is up. There were three applications for a break with a replacement for the performance. Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u20	Colleagues, today in the Supreme Council, there will be a lot of plans for the fall. But before we can talk about plans, let's see how our country spent the summer. Experts estimate that up to 50,000 people have left our country in search of jobs in the last three months. Why do these people go? Because other countries are recovering economically much faster after the epidemic and are offering much better conditions than we are. Because despite all efforts, the government is unable to provide for people who want and can work, the only thing is the predictability of the rules. I'm talking to people who have their own business all over the country. Do you know what there is in common with the owner of the café in Lviv and the man who owns the barbershop in Mariupola? Just one question: Will there be a meadow, will I be able to work in the fall and in the winter, and what should I do? One more question. Why, if I do everything right, I did it myself, I did it on my own, I did it on my own, I prepared my own quarantine shop, I prepared everything, and I still don't know if I'm allowed to work? I can't plan my future and ask anyone. I'm talking to the government. Today, September 7th and the announcements from you are already being made that the Lokdowns will not be avoided. You just imagine the panic of those people who pay taxes that move our country forward, who do everything by the book, and you always throw them under the train because you can't organize yourself. Last year, at the Voice initiative, we had to warn you about quarantine restrictions within a month. Now we're telling you: give people who are vaccinated, who have vaccinated their employees, just give them a chance to work, tell them about these rules right now, and you'll see how many people want to get vaccinated. My colleagues at Voice have registered a rule on the rules that should be in place in autumn and winter, if quarantine is not avoided. These rules are simple and very logical. If you are vaccinated with 80 percent and more, you have the opportunity to continue working, to continue making money, to continue doing business in Ukraine. Restaurants, cafes, movie theaters, barbershops, gyms, they should not be closed, but they have the right and the right to serve vaccinated customers. We have to stop this "save" approach: rules for rules, restrictions that no one can explain. We can't go on with the rules where anything in our country, winter, quarantine or snow comes unexpectedly. We must support people who want and work in Ukraine, not abroad. I call on everyone to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u21	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u22	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to address the session hall first, but also everyone who hears us today with the problem of fighting back muscle atrophy. You may have heard of this disease. Because in social networking you see constant positions of people, mothers, parents who cry out for help and for the entire country to raise funds to save their children. This disease that is being treated with the most expensive drug in the world called "Zolgensma", which requires more than $2 million per shot. But after that, children become healthy and develop normally. And the most important thing for these kids is time. So, of course, our task as parliamentarians, as legislators, is not to translate this problem, the disease is hereditary, exclusively on their parents' shoulders, and so they just don't know how to raise that $2 million. This must be a question of the state. In many parts of the world, there are government programs where the state is helping to provide grants for the treatment of sick children. In Ukraine, two of the three drugs are registered, one waiting for his registration. But we believe that now that Ukraine is standing and we are Parliament before the 2022 budget, we are setting up a special programme in the budget for 2022 to address the issues of children with spinal muscular atrophy. This takes 675 million dollars. And I think that's the amount we're able to put in the budget. And the second question. We need to adopt, in our second reading, bill 4662 on public procurement, which will enable us to secure contracts of managed access. In order for us to have the opportunity to make such contracts now, and children who need immediate treatment so that they can receive such treatment and have the right to life. All the factions here are assembled, which brings together the entire session hall. This must unite the whole country today, and it must unite all society in order for children who need help to live. Among them are unique composers, scientists, and fantastic politicians. And they must not die in the first months of their lives, but they must be able to live and rebuild the Ukrainian state. Let's unite! Thank you to all the deputies who have come out and supported this question. And we support an association that wants to help smileys. "Smack" should be given right on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u23	Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, two weeks ago in this room we welcomed our friends from Crimea. And then here from the rostrum, I said that going back home after they participated in the Crimea platform would be very difficult. Yesterday, the gang of Aksionova, Putina, carried out another cleansing of the Crimean Tatars and for playing they abandoned Narimán Jellalov, the deputy head of Majlis, and our friends of the brothers of Ahtem. They have been and are now being tortured, but they will not be broken. The time has come when we need to show our participation in their liberation, and in the power of Ukraine, and especially of Parliament, to the participants in the Crimea Platform. That they turn to this criminal Putin to finally feel responsible, including that the participants in the Crimean Platform, our partners, also feel responsible. I ask you, we are preparing a decree now that our Parliament will make a commitment to start such a long way of freeing our political prisoners of all those currently in prison in the Russian Federation, as it were. We're preparing a verdict, and I'm asking you all to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u25	Thank you. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, on July 27, 2021, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's national deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-member constituency of Switzerland, Anton Alexiyovich, who was included in the electoral list of the "Slut of the People" political party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a national MP takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zvačko Anton Alexiyovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u26	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and all present! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u27	Hello! Please. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first question. It is a draft of the Order of the Day of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 5893). I bet the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decree (registration number 5893). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:45:29]] For 252 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to regulate the development of the procedure for the allocation of qualification categories and pedagogical names to teachers (registrations 5324 and 5324-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:46:10]] For 263 Decision taken. First Deputy Minister of Education and Science Vitrenko Andriy Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u28	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Honorable National Deputies! The draft act was developed by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on its own initiative to implement paragraph 2 of part six of the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Education Act. According to part three of article 50 of the Ukrainian Law, a list of categories of pedagogical professions is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, part of the seventh article of the Ukrainian Act "On Professional Higher Education" and part of part of part eight of article 55 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, except for the Office of Ministers of Ukraine, also refer to the definition of the order of assignment of categories and pedagogical names of teachers, which are unique to all levels of education. Thus, there is a legislative coalition that needs to be settled. In addition to the article 50 of the Ukrainian Education Act and the articles of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act and the Professional Higher Education Act, the word “qualified” is excluded. The question of assigning categories and pedagogical names to teachers is regulated by the usual position of pedagogical certification. This is why a bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Education and Science in accordance with the Ukrainian Education and Education Act, which provides for the introduction of part seven of the Ukrainian Law on Professional Higher Education and part eight of article 55 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act in accordance with part three of article 50 of the Ukrainian Education Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u29	The National Deputy of Ukraine Grishin, Julius Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, welcome! The bill for your consideration, what is its main purpose? He removes the colossal powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education and standardizes terminology in educational laws. What basic problem does he solve? The Education Framework Law provides that the list of categories and pedagogical names of teachers is determined by the Cabinet. In doing so, Ukraine's special laws, such as the Professional Priority Act, define the Higher Education Act much wider. They say that it is not only a list but also an order for assigning these categories and pedagogical titles. The point is, it has long been defined not by Kabmin but directly by the Ministry of Education, because the assignment of categories and pedagogical names to teachers is based on the result of the certification. Thus, there is now a coalition in the legislation that requires that Kabmin in the Ministry of Profiles develop a procedure for approving the assignment for further approval by Kabmin, as required by the rules of law in force. At the same time, this order is already contained in the typical staff appraisal clause as an integral part of the evaluation. My colleagues, my bill, as opposed to the basic bill given by Kabmin, suggest using the term "qualified categories" rather than "categories". Because it's a specific expression that won't generate uncertainty and it's been used for a long time. It is also worth noting that in the alternative bill we propose to harmonize terminology in a comprehensive manner throughout education legislation, rather than selectively in just two standards, as proposed by the basic bill. So, colleagues, I propose to support my bill and clear up the duplication of norms that cause the conflict and make our education legislation more perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u31	Thank you, Julia Mikolayevna. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation of Babak Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u32	Good afternoon, fellow believers! Now it's about two essentially technical laws, one prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the other prepared by members of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. These two laws provide for the harmonization of education laws: full general secondary education, vocational education, and higher education. And the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administrations say that the alternative draft of the Ukrainian Law (registration number 5324-1) actually proposes to reconcile the provisions of these laws with a more legal one. And unlike the basic bill, the alternative is to apply a uniform approach to the use of the term "qualified category" instead of the term "category." Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation considered, at its meeting, Bills 5324 and 5324-1 and adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act of Ukraine (registration number 5324) to be rejected, and a draft Act of Ukraine (registration number 5324-1), submitted by the People's Deputies of Grisha and others, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Colleagues, please support the alternative bill Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust". Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u34	Good day, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! First of all, I want to point out that the trust MP group will support this bill. And it's really technical, and it brings the standards of the laws of "The Professional Priorities of Education", "The Higher Education" to the standards of the Education Act. But I want to stress the problem, because there's an opportunity, here are the representatives of the Ministry of Education that teachers are facing today. I get dozens of references, because a large number of teachers who have successfully been certified today cannot undergo extra-curricular certification with the aim of upgrading their qualifications and assigning a title. What needs to be done is that it is urgent to bring the standard standards for certification into line with the Comprehensive General Education and Certification Act. Because we have in practice a situation where a large number of teachers who have successfully been certified have not been able to exercise their right to receive their certification and assign their title. So you can understand the despair of teachers, of administrations that are sometimes openly ignored and referred to documents. But in fact, we just have to change for today. How would I like to go to the Ministry of Education to bring immediately into line with the Regulation on Certification and, most importantly, the Law on Full General Education? Because teachers need to be sure that as a result of successful certification, they will not have to go through another seven rounds of hell from the test. So do not humiliate our teachers and finally do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u35	Thank you. The word is given to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, I understand. Are you going to report? Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko instead of Zimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Kirilenko, Fatherland. With all the technicality of this law, friends, it's not very technical, because it refers to a large and significant category. Among other things, it is suggested that the development of categories and teaching titles should be addressed to teachers, teachers, teachers, and teachers. And it needs to be adopted in order to ensure that the higher and higher education systems function smoothly. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the draft Law 5324-1 be supported in view of the fact that it foresees such an important stage as the pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pedagogical pdical pedagogical ped. Everything is regulated by the committee's bill of deputies and we support it in the first reading. This is about the substance of the bill. In fact, what is happening today in the educational field? Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would like to stress that, despite the government's promises, we will have a considerable debt in the next quarter of the salary paid to teachers, especially in rural areas. The subsidy voted in the budget does not cover these needs. And to settle the issue of summer vacation debt, in the third quarter, funding from the fourth quarter is approaching. And the fourth quarter? Friends, do you know what's going to happen to utilities, gas prices, et cetera? And teachers with no pay. I'm asking for a protocol commission to give the government immediate changes to the budget, to increase education subsidies, especially in the region, especially in rural areas, because there will be trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u38	Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, we will support this bill because it is necessary. It's really a reconciliation between the qualifications and today's Education Act. But I want to point out that we also need it very much for our senior classes in the New Ukrainian School, and especially for the subject of the profile school that I'm looking after. And I also refer once again to the Cabinet and the Ministry of Education and Science, and to the budget that we're going to adopt that education is first of all not a room, it's the content of education, it's what we're filling our schools with, and with what knowledge and competence our children are getting out of school. So I'm asking you very much, we need to increase the subsidy. And especially the key to a good school is good teacher training. We have to invest in the training of teachers and the "New Ukrainian School" not in form, but in the context that our children, graduates and teachers become competitive in the world. This bill is one of the steps of the law that is necessary. But there's a lot of work ahead. And once again, I want to emphasize the content of education and quality. The necessary facilities are good, but this is not a school. School is what we go out with, what knowledge and what competences.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u39	My ass. Irina Miroslavna, please. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u40	Irina Konstanovic, 23th constituency, Volin, Future Group. Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group will of course support the alternative bill of Mrs. Julia Grishna. And we think that it really answers the questions of both our educational environment and our social environment. But at the same time, in my word, I would like to point out that what is required of MPs at the legislative level is what we do. But at the same time, there is a big question and a big problem -- whether everything that stands before the government is what they do. I'm also talking about funding. Now, look, here are the respectable colleagues that we have a problem with the profession right now. It's wonderful that students in vocational education, vocational and technical education, have increased the scope of the scholarship, the size of the scholarship. But this is a problem that lies at the back of local budgets. Look at the situation with the New Ukrainian School. It was as if they were, but they came to a place late. The Treasury kept these funds until the last one. And so far, many schools in Ukraine have started a learning process without adequate material and technology. So I support all my former colleagues who have addressed the government with concern. First of all, education should be top priority in the government. In the 22nd-year budget, increase funding to all educational links, starting with secondary education, ending with higher education as well as science. And thank you to those who have assembled the agenda today and that we have started work on education. This reflects the healthy trends of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 12:01, but we've got one argument left. Maybe we should vote before. The speech and the vote. Okay? Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u42	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. First of all, I want to welcome all the Ukrainians to Knowledge Day. But of course it's, you know, such a bitter taste is, because it's already the third of September 1st, which goes by, as Zelensky's teachers promised four thousand dollars a salary. Instead, it doesn't even comply with the Education Act, which was adopted in 2017, which provides that the minimum wage of a pedagogical worker should be three minimum wages. Vladimir Zelensky, at least do it! Instead, the government is putting off one year at a time. Next, higher education institutions are a disaster. Today, at regional higher education institutions, teachers are being sent 50 percent of the rate, as their budget funding is declining. And that's how we meet September 1st. That can't be right. Zelenski, sit down, two, and correct immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Honorary colleagues, the committee recommends a foundation as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to regulate the development of the procedure for the assignment of qualification categories and pedagogical titles to pedagogical workers (registration No. 5324-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:02:40]] For 330. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal regulations, draft Law (registration number 5324-1). Please support and vote. [[12:03:07]] For 332 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. There's a break until 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u44	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to work? Invite the national deputies to the hall. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Law on Industrial Parks, aimed at investing in the industrial economy through the introduction of incentives in industrial parks (registration number 4416-1). The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, who's going to insist on the papers? Puziczuk, Majestic, Dmitry Davidovich, I see, and Shkrum. Nobody insists anymore? It's a Southern. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come here, please, I can't hear you. Alona Ivanovna, you've got four minutes instead of your licenses, right? Please turn on the chrome microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u45	Thank you. In fact, I have 18 right-handers that are rejected. I asked for four minutes. Good day to you all, friends! An extremely important law. You know, you and I are proud to celebrate 30 years of our independence this year. 30 years behind a passport is probably enough for a person to figure out who he wants to be when he grows up. But obviously, something is still not enough for the country, because we're still with you just now determining who we want to be strategic, and we're choosing, we're being torn apart literally in recent years, whether we want to be a kind of liberal boy who's only hoping for a foreign uncle, that he's saved by a "uncle Sam" or a grandfather who comes with European money, helps with money, tells us what to do and protect from other bad uncles, or we still want to be an adult self-sufficient 30-year-old man who knows what he can, knows his strengths, knows what rules he wants to live in this life. I would very much like us as a country to move on the second path. And that means a strong economy, that means less listening to foreign advice, and more studying foreign experience and doing it often, unfortunately, not as we're told, but as these countries did themselves to become successful when they got on their 30s. And countries like Poland, Turkey, I'm already talking about other developed democratic countries that have just introduced specific economic incentives, economic preferences, stimulated their own internal investor, and fought and fought for every big foreign investor right now. Turkey and Poland, and I think you know that, you know, I'm not going to open up a big secret, and today it's putting the land under industrial parks for every investor who wants to open a factory and create at least 50, 60, 100 jobs. And they think it's a lot, they create tax incentives, they have preferences, they have a tax on the capital that we have already promised our second-in-a-row president, but for some reason it's not done, and they have a lot of other customs and tax incentives. Unfortunately, we are still afraid to protect ourselves and still fear to be somewhat selfish in our economic development. I think that this law for the first sessional day of the new political season is an important story, an important sign for our growing up. But my rights in general also apply to changes in the Tax Code and the Customs Code. And I did this specifically to draw attention to the fact that this law, being a framework, cannot work unless there are changes to the Tax Code and the Customs Code. Unless there's a replacement tax on income in industrial parks for the tax on the capital outlay that President Zelensky promised, and which we're looking forward to if there's no other tax and tax incentives. I think that the next decision is for us to adopt these very customs and tax laws. At a time when Poland and Turkey are really fighting for each investor with their industrial parks and their industrial parks, you know what we're doing? Unfortunately, the head of government sends letters to the governors in every area saying they have to build a factory for 500 jobs and engage an investment nanny. Do you know how much for today in the land of investment babysitters? Zero. You know why? Because it's not a matter of pierra, it's not a question of a branch. And the question in real concrete actions and actual legislation that we have to adopt. These are also industrial parks. These are also changes to the Customs, Tax Code. It's also the Localization Act. And this is a simplification of business, normal tax conditions for business. Today, again under the Council, there are FOPs that require simplification for small business and the only rules of the game. But we also have to talk about foreign big investors, both domestic and foreign. So I hope that this law will be passed. We vote yes. We will continue to grow up in our economic strategy, hopefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u46	Thank you. We don't put regulations on it. Right? Dmitry Davidovich Kisilevski, how many minutes? Two minutes? Two minutes, please let me do it instead of a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u47	My colleagues, congratulations. This bill is among the few who have succeeded in reaching agreement between a large number of interested parties. It's supported by both the Economic Committee and the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of the Interior, and it's supported by local self-government. What are industrial parks in general? It's like an analog of an office center just for industrial production. This is a part of the land where roads, gas, electricity, railways, and start-up businesses need to drive equipment and start working, all of it. In all our neighbors, industrial parks work for the benefit of their economies. And we haven't offered our investors, first of all your insides, any similar conditions. We also have industrial parks on paper, but their impact on the economy is low. In Hungary, for example, one third of GDP is formed in industrial parks, it's very serious. Why is it that they work and we don't? There's a reason there's no incentive. And today we're starting to fix it. This bill introduces financial and institutional incentives, and in two others we will consider after the adoption of this bill, tax and customs. Along with incentives are abusers. They were developed under the supervision of the Tax Committee, so I am convinced that they are reliable. Industrial parks, colleagues, are a tool for stimulating small and medium-sized businesses, with one that produces and generates added value. That's how it works all over the world, and that's how it works for us. I deliberately mentioned local self-government at the beginning of the speech, because this bill gives communities a real tool to increase economic activity and create jobs for Ukrainian citizens where they are needed in a particular community. I urge everyone to support this bill. We press the green without hesitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u48	Thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, two minutes instead of the right. Natalia Yuriovna, are you insisting? Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the beginning of the autumn session. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not support this bill in the second reading. But in general, it's a good idea. But unfortunately, this bill has remained very eloquent for the second reading, there are many well-designed initiatives that would really help our economy today, investors come and develop the economy of Ukraine. But many of the functions that need to be solved today are about lending, it's about the debt regime, it's about deciding how to allocate land, how to make these decisions, not to create unequal competition within the country, but the issues are unfortunately not settled. Although we believe that today the issue of economic support for a national producer is one of the most important issues on the agenda today. And what we're starting with here is our plenary session. But it would be much better if we combined all our efforts to help the national producers of Ukraine today to provide them with a credit scheme so as to impose a total ban on all checks to give people today’s tax treatment. And our team came up with this plan, and we're ready to stand up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Puziczuk Andri Viktorovich, what kind of papers do you insist on? All of them? No. No.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u51	Dmitri Alexanderovich, at all times, I have 30 amendments. The first one is 43rd. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, the Fatherland faction consistently defends the rights of Ukrainians in Parliament. The Fatherland faction has prepared two dozen bills that deal with the protection of the interests of the most vulnerable categories of citizens that the authorities have forgotten today. They are educators, pensioners, disabled persons, many children, and underprivileged families, children of war, and Chernobyl. The heating season is about to start, prices are rising, subsidies are not enough, and they're not expected to increase. That's why Fatherland is taking appropriate legislative initiatives. Here's what should be Parliament's priority today. And you predict giving two billion to industrial parks. And how much did you put on the subsidies, on the pensions of the black people, on the diet of the children? Let's change the order of the day and bring it into the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u52	I'll bet you 43 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:47]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 49 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction has registered the following bills. It's about amending the State Budget Act to channel funds from the IMF, it's about helping the IMF to get these funds to pay benefits and housing subsidies to Ukrainian citizens and to pay housing and utilities. This is the real support that Ukrainian citizens are looking for. Today is a very signistic day, today a new session has begun — the third year of the cabinet of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call, and people expect real support from the Supreme Council, not the creation of artificial schemes and privileges for certain subjects. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u54	I'm betting on the 49th vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:16]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next edit of Puziyczuk 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u55	Respectable citizens! Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. You know, it's probably important for business that the court system actually works, which will really protect the interests of entrepreneurs, which will allow businesses to defend their interests. And in order to protect the judiciary from you, the Fatherland has been prepared to submit to the Constitutional Court a confession that does not correspond to the Constitution adopted by a majority of the Law on the Order of Elections (Appointment) as members of the Supreme Council of Justice and the activities of the disciplinary inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice. Because what you've accepted is not progress and not a fight against corruption, it's what inhibits economic development and hinders business from breathing and working freely in this country. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u56	I'll bet you 69 votes. The committee's been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:51]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 93rd, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Honourable citizens, continuing to refer the Fatherland to the Constitutional Court for recognition in such a way that it does not conform to the Constitution adopted by the majority of the so-called Act on the Restitution of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges. The essence of this bill has nothing to do with his statement. And you know, this law that you've passed, the honourable representatives of the greatness, is the destruction of the national judicial system. But citizens and businesses once again stress that they wait for equal conditions, wait for justice, stand up for their interests in court, and not that you are creating preferences for certain owners today. Yeah, maybe I still have a question. Is there a list of these operators who will receive $2 billion in gifts from the State Budget? Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u58	I'll bet you 93 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:19]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 107 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear citizens, you all probably have the most access to the Internet today, read this bill, and you'll just be surprised how much it's pierced and pierced with corruption. Including, see, this bill strengthens the right of an authorized body to form advisory bodies to support industrial park participants. You know what? It's going to be another commission, like a gaming commission was set up to issue licenses. And we've already seen examples of the detention of members of the commission where these licenses are being sold. And it's just going to go to a 2 billion greaves of government budget. It's not about economic development, it's not about citizen support. Such bills cannot be adopted in any way. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u60	I'll bet you 107 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:46]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 112 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have a question for the committee head. Please tell us that this bill is given to participants in industrial parks with absolutely unfounded preferences compared to other operators. You know, "Serve of the People" today are the Robins of Goodam, and they're trying to take money from the poor and give it to the very rich. This is probably the only thing that happens in Ukraine. And why don't you explain to me how you can adopt laws that directly conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, which proclaims equality before the law? The State's duty is to ensure a competitive environment in entrepreneurial activities, to protect the rights of all economic operators and the social orientation of the economy, and not to create preferences.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u62	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Although the amendment does apply, of course, not to what has been sounded by my distinguished colleague, I would like to point out the following. This law gives benefits and incentives not only to parkers, it certainly does. This law allows the state of Ukraine to create additional jobs first. Because one hectare of working industrial parks, according to expert centres, is the creation of 50 new jobs. Given that the minimum industrial park area is 10 hectares, we can expect at least 500 new jobs for each new industrial park created. The bill also provides an opportunity to make money. Because for every dollar invested in industrial park infrastructure, it's between $5 and $6. So it's not that this law is stealing from someone. You're taking the opportunity in the state to make money and create jobs here and now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u64	Thank you. I'm betting on the 112 vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:14]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Next 115, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, I'm listening to the head of the committee, and it's so impressive that it's Fatherland and Servant of the People and Ukrainian citizens. I mean, Fatherland lives with Ukrainians in one country and Servant of the People in another country. Dear Head of the Committee, we've heard declarations last year about the creation of 500,000 jobs. So now the application is about what to create the next 500,000 jobs? In fact, take the statistics: we have an increase in unemployment, and in July there has been a decline in industrial production. Let's be honest with you, enough manipulation. Ukrainian citizens, they're certified, they're smart, and they don't take the third year of your population and your manipulation. And this is about the government's money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u66	Thank you. I'm betting on the 115th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:43]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 119, Puzijchuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u67	You know. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. If you really want to support business, create a level playing field for all Ukrainian business. If you really want to support business, first of all, support small business. But you have actions that contradict each other. On the one hand, you register, you accept, in the first reading, Bill 5600, which you tax with Ukrainian farmers, small agrarians. You already think 2 hectares of land is a very large area. You already have to pay those who have half a hectare of land. On the other hand, once again, you're taking money from the poor, you're suffocating small businesses to create incredible preferences for big business, and for that. Please support my amendment, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u68	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u69	Dear colleague, I wanted to respond to the previous line. In a sense, I really live with my Fatherland in one country. But the question is that the bill does not restrict industrial park participants to any criteria: whether it is the number of jobs or whether it is the size of statutory capital. So any business, whether medium or small, has the right to become a full participant in this industrial park and to be given the right incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u70	I'm betting on the 119th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. You've heard the reasons. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:01]] Z-91
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u71	The decision is not accepted, the amendment is not supported. Next line 122, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear reporter, you know, it's really nice that you have a sense of humor, you can joke, but when people get payments, they don't smile. When people get pensions, they cry. And what our colleague, a third - year teacher, has pointed out today is that schoolchildren are waiting for a salary, a salary increase. And unfortunately, thanks to the government you've chosen, thanks to the Prime Minister for whom you voted, there is no joy in people, and there are tears in their eyes, and very much the sadness of the leadership you're taking today, the country. And perhaps you, as chairman of the committee today, should have stated that Mr. Schmigal should have been personally politically responsible for not creating 500,000 jobs rather than pushing these bills. We ask you to support mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u73	122nd, the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:38]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 123 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. My colleagues, listen very carefully again. You, on the one hand, declare that corruption must be combated in the country, but today you are starting to create incomprehensible advisory bodies. What are you saying? That they will be involved in the management of cooperation and contacts. We have today the issue of advisory bodies already regulated by the Law on Central Executive Authorities. And you create these centers for yourself. It's not even a corruption risk, it's a corruption base. The basis of this bill is corruption and corruption. And such bills can't be adopted in any way. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u75	I'm betting on the vote of 123 Puziichuk. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:05]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 124 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please tell me, dear colleagues. You are indeed, you are representatives of the Ukrainian people in Parliament, the people of Ukraine have delegated you, entrusted you with representing their interests. Here comes questions, and the Fatherland faction responds to citizens and protects the interests of citizens, including the Chernobylites of my native Zitomirsk. Today, the "Fatherhood" faction led by Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko has registered a bill amending article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster to increase the minimum pension size for persons with disabilities. That's what people need. Listen! But people can't understand how you vote and support a 2 billion-dollar deposit for a limited circle of people. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u77	I'm betting on the 124th turn of Puziyczuk. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:34]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 125 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u78	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I, with your permission, will contact Dmitri Andriyovich, the reporter. Dmitry Andriyovich, would you please tell us if there is a conclusion of the anti-corruption committee regarding this bill? We did not see any conclusions in the material. Let's maybe put this bill back on the second reading, so that this bill, including the anti-corruption committee, we actually worked it out, and we figured out whether there's a corruption component of 2 billion dollars of deriban here, creating preferences for certain operators, or whether that's really what you're saying. But nobody sees business support here, nobody sees job creation. And I would like to hear your personal position on the Prime Minister's political responsibility for deceiving citizens and creating 500,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u79	I'm betting on a vote of 125. Do you want to answer? Just the answer should be correct, not the political situation in Ukraine. If you'd like to, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Mr. Andrew, yes, indeed, you are right that you have not been able to reach that conclusion today. Because I'm so sure the committee hasn't considered it. I didn't. But I want to tell you a little bit different. You represent Lifetime. And you have an industrial park project in Žitomirščina that will be a cluster of woodworking. And I hope that the next time you come to your electorate, you can explain to them why there was no support in the room, including by what you said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the 125th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:02]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 131. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u82	Dmitri Andryovich, look, you've just confirmed that there's no conclusion on the anti-corruption committee. This bill violates the Constitution. And that's going to be the basis for you to go to the Constitutional Court and repeal this bill. Bills can't be passed. Bills are open to lobbyists. Bills with a corrupt basis cannot be adopted. Bills that worsen the status of other business subjects cannot be adopted. And the thing about people like that, you know, the statement that there's a center like this and it needs lobbying. See, we have to create a level playing field for all citizens, for all entrepreneurs. Because today an entrepreneur outside the park of an industrial park will never be able to enter this industrial park and have no support from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u83	131. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:36]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 135 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitri Andryovich, if you're already gone, as they say, in particular, I'll let you know what I'm going to tell you. That today, industrial parks have created logistics centers that stimulate imports of goods into Ukraine. This has nothing to do with it. And after today's end, I can show you concrete examples of where logistics centers are being built that pay one thousand percent of the land's rent-a-money valuation. If businesses pay 5 percent, logistics centers pay 5,000 times less land rent on such schemes. And it's a non-recovery of taxes on local budgets. To date, local budgets are being broken down, and you are trying to get even more out of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u85	I'll bet you 135 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:16]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 146 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u86	Dmitri Alexanderovich, we now have the opportunity to give the floor to the head of the anti-corruption committee present in the hall. Can the committee head explain why there is no conclusion from this bill and whether it should now be re-readed to explore the basis for corruption? And don't accept the bills that are aimed at today against the Ukrainian business. You can't rob the Ukrainian business today, you can't take from the poor and, again, give to the rich and create these preferences. And today we have to direct our work to protect Ukrainian citizens, to raise social standards, to consider the "Fatherland" bill, which says that Ukrainian gas should be directed at burning our homes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u87	You worked with the Committee on Regulatory. It's not for reasons, you know the Rules. We can come back from the budget, you can work there. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out that I feel that you have failed to get to the bottom of it, unfortunately, both with the law and with the Rules. Since the anticorruption committee does not in principle draw conclusions on the second reading, this is not provided for by the applicable laws of Ukraine. But what is required by the current legislation of Ukraine is the appropriate incentives for compensating electricity supply rates, and all the other incentives that, unfortunately, industrial parks and Zitomir East, Malin, Novograd Wallinsky and other industrial parks of the Zitomir region are obviously not going to get, given the position you are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u89	I'm betting on the 146th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:50]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next item. Puzichuk, 153rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u90	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Reverend Dmitry Andriyovich, I may be reading papers and working with documents from you. The result of the anti-corruption committee must be before the first reading, and it is not. That's the question. And don't change your mind today, don't manipulate it. I'll repeat, and the citizens are arraigned and the MPs are arraigned. And what you're trying to do today to lobby and extend this bill is certainly not adorning you. And these things don't create any, you know, confidence in citizens in the country. I mean, you don't let people believe in the state. So today people have a clear understanding of the creation of corrupt laws that lobby. I have a question. Now you're starting to call it a list of parks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u91	I'll bet you 153 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:27]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next line is 210, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Fellows, one more time. See, my amendments are designed to ensure that the constitutional principle of equality is respected before the law, not to give unjustified preferences to industrial parks. Now Dmitri Andriyovich, head of the committee, openly calls the parks to which the funds will be provided. This is open lobbying. So let's now figure out who's behind these parks, who are the managing companies in these parks. The chairman of the committee openly lobbies these bills. Dmitri Andryovich, this isn't about economic development, is it? Let's call then the management companies, the beneficiaries of the management companies, and who receives these billions of grants -- gifts from the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u93	I'll bet you 210 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:58]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 221 correct, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear citizens, note the unanimity voted by the "Serve of the People" faction, 246 deputies rejected the normal rational amendment. Tell me if we're going to see any bills in the hall and whether there's going to be such unanimity support for the Parenthood Bills, which are aimed, for example, at increasing funding for child nutrition in schools for children from low-income families. Today, nearly 50 percent of Ukrainian citizens are underfunded. They're people who get, they have one less living minimum per month. And that's what people expect us to do, not what you are now, instead of channeling these funds to children, you're sending them to support the rich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u95	I'm betting on a vote of 211 amendments, and the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:32]] For-74. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u96	Next line is 216, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Andriyovich, we have adopted a law that the state can and has the right to provide support to individual sectors and under certain clearly defined conditions. And to that end, there's a system-wide basic law called State Aid to Hostages. Perhaps you know about this law. And this law can be supported by all under the same conditions. This law can cost loans, create the same conditions, not for a limited circle of big business, but for all citizens. Listen, let's make real laws. Your "investigators" Act, everyone understands that aside from a beautiful name, there's no bracelet attached to Ukraine. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u98	I'm betting on a vote of 216 amendments, People's Deputy Puziyczuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:04]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 220. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dmitry Andryovich, maybe you can explain why you're not governed by an active basic law and you're starting to create new laws and you're giving preferences? You know, you still have such an interesting rule that this law allows you to use industrial parks to take down and carry the ground floor without getting a special permit. Explain why? If business outside the fence has to get this permission to remove the fertile layer of land, and within the industrial park you can create anything. The laws don't work because they're parks for the chosen, the "ministers of the people"? Well, please answer that question. And look, that's what the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council points out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u100	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. This is about the land of industrial assignment. So, in principle, I don't see a great tragedy, because if you're able to grow something on the land of industrial assignment, I'm just going to applaud you standing up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I place the 220th Amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputies on the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:55]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 226. Puziczuk Andri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u103	220th, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u104	We just voted 220. 226th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Andriyovich, the question is simple and comment on it. Within the industrial park, there is no need for permission to remove fertile soil. If an enterprise is not built within an industrial park, permission is required. Why such preferences? Next. Today you're trying to create conditions under someone's projects -- those projects that you're lobbying, and with this bill, you're just turning your back on ecology. Today, tectonic climate changes are taking place around the world, and the environment cannot be destroyed, the forest cannot be destroyed. And what you write in this bill is someone's personal benefit. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u106	I'm betting on a vote of 226 amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:25]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 231. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitri Andriyovich, let's read the bill and the table for the second reading. The bill provides for exemption from the loss of agricultural and forestry production in the case of these land areas of industrial parks. Again, it's a series of totally groundless preferences for industrial park participants, and it's a pity for other industries. Let's maybe ask the position of the environmental committee, too, whether it's really possible to destroy forests without agreement with the Kabmin, not to pay the recovery costs in order to rediscover and create preferences for certain participants in these industrial parks and owners of the management companies. Well, you're destroying this country for certain groups of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u108	I'm betting on a vote of 231 amendments. Please give an argument if there is. I can hear you, I can hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u109	No, I'd love to argue any answer, if that makes sense. I just said that before, it's a land of industrial purpose, so I don't see the point of arguing again, which is that we're like factory oranges.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. I'm betting on a vote of 231 amendments. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:23]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 236. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitri Andriyovich, it's very strange to hear this argument and position. Please read again, you do not want to comment, read for yourself. Perhaps you have not learned that this is about the loss of forestry activities. And look, and really, I think you're going to change your mind, and you're going to recommend that this bill be sent back to read again. Next thing you know, my 236 revisions. Once again, it provides for discriminatory conditions that directly conflict with a number of constitutional principles: equality of all before the law, the duty of the State to ensure a competitive environment in entrepreneurial activities, and the protection of the rights of all economic operators, is the social orientation of the economy. In this project, you put, once again, crazy corruption risks. It's worse than the Law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u112	I'm betting on the 236th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:53]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 249, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many of you are truly frankly ashamed to vote on the bill on the gaming business. Read this bill -- it's much worse, it's more corrupt. It really violates the Constitution itself, and it creates unequal conditions, it damages ecology. And this bill directly provides for the government to allocate at least 2 billion dollars for the following year to offset the interest on loans to the management companies that are not state-owned, non-communal, and industrial park initiators and to provide them with a non-refundable basis. These will be gifts received from the State. There's nowhere for the state to spend money?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u114	I'm betting on a vote of 249. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:20]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next line is 253. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. You know, it's very sad to see that our colleagues, instead of paying attention to this bill, read it, and really, to have Parliament as a place of discussion, we see once again attempts to bring forth such open lobbying bills. Dear colleagues, let's really work for the citizens, let's raise social standards. Let us now, just before the heating season, as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has said today, work on those bills that will be able to provide or allocate additional compensation, on benefits, or lower tariffs, or at least prevent tariffs from rising. But don't lobby big business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u116	I'm betting on a 253 vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:45]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 254, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. It's my ultimate correction. Dmitry Andryovich, you know, please tell me, what are you willing to take personally political responsibility if this bill doesn't work in two years if jobs aren't created, if it really turns out to be distributed and donated from the state budget to the big business? We're sure it's not about supporting business, it's, once again, a lobbyist, corrupt bill to give the big business 2 billion dollars. And it's not about any jobs. There will be no 50,000, no 100,000, no 500, and there will be just an increase in unemployment and economic degradation, and an outflow of Ukrainian citizens to more developed countries. Please don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u118	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u119	Thank you. I'll tell you a little bit about responsibility, dear colleague. I'm willing to take such a responsibility that you and I can come to the Žitomir District Council, which, for the first time in Ukraine, has adopted an industrial park development programme in the area. Twice for the first time in Ukraine. We can come to Malin Industrial Park, where you come from, where you come from, where your district, which is now supported by sectoral support for the EU through the Region, and unfortunately not by its national deputy; to the Zitomir-East Industrial Park, Novograd-Volinski. To come and say yes, my name is Dmitri Nataluha and I am the lobbyist of the industrial parks in Ukraine, because I am primarily the lobby for the economic development of this state. I stand for the personal benefit of the participants because I stand for the personal benefit of the simple workers, the jobs that will be created in these parks. I'd very much like you to stand next to me at this point and say all the things you said here and say you shouldn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u120	Thank you. Puzichuk's edits are over. Mushroom Victoria Alexandrovna, three revisions: 111, 186, 187 (in turn) 111 right, Grib. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u121	Comrades, good afternoon. You know, this bill can be both very useful to Ukraine and the Ukrainian economy, yes, in principle, and corrupt. I've proposed an amendment to strengthen this bill now and show that Ukraine supports the carbon footprints where mines close and, unfortunately, there is no other option. Regrettably, these amendments were not supported. So I'm asking you very much to support the 111, which speaks of preference for carbon-carbon areas. The investor just won't go there. And when we talked about everything depending on the local authorities, it's not, because today it's carbon-carbon enterprises that belong to the state, which are state-owned, and it's up to them whether there's an industrial park or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u122	I'll bet you a vote of 111. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:44]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 186 lashes, Grib.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u123	Colleagues, I go on. Today, there is no way to use other mechanisms in the carbonic areas. In many cases today, the lives of all people in those territories depend on this. If mines are closed, there are no concessions to the local budget at all. And we don't want to vote in favour of this bill today? It's practically the only way now to diversify the economy in Ukraine's monomists. I very much ask you, Majorists, to think particularly of those from the Lvivsko-Volinski pool, from Donetskina, Dnipropetrovska, Lugansk. What will you tell your people when you return? Why didn't you vote for these changes that support it??
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u124	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u125	Victoria Alexandrovna, I have great respect for you. And I want to point out that the real problem of the coal-growing regions in the bill is included. First of all, it is listed in line 63, which allows for the creation of industrial parks in the mines of active mines, and even in the mines that are in the process of being eliminated. This bill thus lays the groundwork for the transformation of coal regions. These positions are here. So I would urge you personally and your colleagues to support this bill in the same way in order to enable the coal mining regions to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u126	I'm betting on a vote of 186. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:30]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next line's 187, Mushroom.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u127	Dmitri Andryovich, with great respect to you, I want to say that, yes, we've taken into account some of the moments in the working group. But this does not give preference to carbon dioxide areas today. And I'll tell you that the letter you sent to the Cabinet of Ministers today was sent to the Ministry of Finance and other ministries. And what did we get in return? Sadly, this cannot be done because the local authorities have to ask such questions. They cannot ask such questions today, for carbon - capture enterprises today belong to a state, a state. So, you know, there are problems all the time. I am very much asking you to support the preferences directly in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u128	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 187 amendments to the Mishnah People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:26]] For-89
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u129	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thirty-nine, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, in fact, industrial parks are a well-known world experience, and very many countries use this form. But I have to say that the bill that was proposed, unfortunately, has nothing to do with the world experience that is about creating industrial parks. Mr. Dmitri, you know that our team is treating you with great respect. And you know exactly how an industrial park is a combination of science and production and giving them preferences. I have a question, and that's exactly what I'm doing. Why are the industrial park facilities included, for example, in the management company’s offices? And then there's 50 percent of the investment in return. Please tell us why advertising agencies, marketing facilities, financial institutions, and so forth are involved. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u131	I'll bet you 39 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:07]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 48 adjustment counted partially. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u132	Mr. Chairman, I would like to warn you that I have the right to ask a question to the person who heads the committee and stands on the stand. And he has an obligation to give an answer and to explain why this amendment is not taken into account. And so I ask you not to be so disrespectful as to treat the national MPs and essentially cut them in half when a completely different system of taxation is being created, support for different owners. And that is why I ask you, Mr. Chairman, no longer to interrupt the deputies and allow the committee head to answer the question. And now I ask you, Mr. Dmitri, with great respect I ask you this question. Why are there objects in the list of industrial parks that have nothing to do with science or industry — advertising, marketing, insurance funds, funds? What are we creating, can you explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, you do have the right to present your claim. But there is no obligation on the Committee under the Rules. None. [[B in m in s a l in]] So Respectful or Responsibilities, Honorable Colleagues? Please, Nataluha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u134	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u135	And no one beat you up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Juliet Volodymyrically, yes, indeed, these objects are. And it's not surprising, because this bill introduces a separate category, these are so - called other objects that have the right to be located in industrial parks. The trick is that no benefits are available to other objects as a separate category, provided for full - time participants who carry out their business, while these other objects are used to serve a management company or other types of companies. Regarding science and education, I fully agree with you. That is why we have included scientific parks, accelerators, and laboratories for the development of innovative technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u137	I'll bet you 48 votes. It's part of the committee. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:41]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. 59, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u138	I'd like to, given that I haven't had a chance to say 48, I'll say two words. We suggested that in the area of industrial parks with the benefits and budget costs that would be available to these companies, there should be no place for producers of excise goods, gambling facilities, the media, other entities that operate commercial activities that are licensed. Regrettably, this adjustment is not fully accounted for. You and I have already had the opportunity to vote here on the gaming business and say that from the gaming business will be 4 billion dollars per year of income to the budget, and then we immediately passed the Act on the Liberation of the Gambling Business from Taxation. And now we see that in industrial parks, as we've asked, there's no limit to activities that have nothing to do with industrial parks at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u139	I'll bet you 59 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:12]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 82, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u140	Once again, Mr. Chairman, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that I'm addressing the head of the committee and I'm asking for clarification because these are very serious things that are interfering with the economic system of Ukraine at all. I have a question, Mr. Dmitri. We have only reportedly 75 million dollars a year to support such industrial parks. You know, as an intellectual person, 75 million dollars is nothing at all, and you can't satisfy that 75 million dollars to everyone you want. And this is where an authorized authority is created, which is going to be a passer-by: someone has the right to create industrial parks, someone -- no, someone has the right to reimburse money from the budget, someone doesn't. So please explain to me how in this law this 75 million dollars, which are for industrial parks, will be divided among all those who want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u141	82 axles. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u142	Thank you. In fact, the decision to create an industrial park is made by the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole. That's how we tried to take any corruption risk that could take place in a discreet function of a ministry. This time. Two. As money is not allocated enough to all the parks, I agree with you completely, the money for all the parks is not enough. But, Julia Volodymyrna, we have to start with something. We now have priority areas, we have the same coal-based regions, other regions where we can create this stimulus right now. If we're talking about 50 jobs per hectare, they're going to pay PDF from each month. So you can essentially start to figure out what is the profit of every industrial park you've created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u143	I'll bet you 82 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:41]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 90 lashes, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u144	Mr. Dmitri. Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to ask you how a person understands what I'm asking. For example, the government received 5,000 applications to create industrial parks. 72 million dollars in the budget. That's not enough, maybe three industrial parks. Please tell me, why is there no criterion in the law that the government will choose from 5,000 applications there 3 or 4? And don't you think, as an honest person, there are corruption risks here, and that the government will choose the companies that it will make to run, according to a call from the President's Administration, and that out of 5,000, you have to choose these three? I'm asking for your answer because that's what the whole law is about. And people need to know who will choose from 5,000 applications 3 or 5, which will be called industrial parks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u145	I'll bet you 90 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:07]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 109 right, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u146	Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that I asked the head of the committee a question, and you're very filigree, manipulating the situation, you've practically deprived him of his right of reply. I want to ask that question again. If the government receives 5,000 applications from various owners for industrial park registration and 75 million for money, it is possible to register a maximum of 5-6. There are no criteria under which the government will choose Company A, or Company B. Please explain, do you not consider this a corrupt risk when there are absolutely no criteria on which to choose, and the government of 5,000 requests will have to choose a few? Another little question. And if they registered 5,000, for example, industrial parks, and in the budget 75 million. How you choose to compensate.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the author does not ask, but reports in his own direction. Edit No. 109, para. 12 of part one of article 27, the word "and make changes to it" is replaced by the words "and for the initiatives of the management company or.".. Sadly, this does not apply to the question raised. I'll bet you 109 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:51]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Three minutes, Shahov. Now, Shahov, then we'll come back. 114th Kabachenka. Julia Volodymyrna, let's not run me. Thank you. Chess, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u148	I could have taken the lady's word. Dear colleagues, we've just heard Victoria Grib talking about miners, and it's not rumors, it's not talk, it's true. I speak not only from Luhansk, but from all over the country, because coal pools are in the Lviv region, Volinsky, Donetsk, Lugansk, Kirovograd. And I turn to all miners, Your Honor. Not only do we need to hear it now, but we need to see Donbas's breadcane, I've not once invited you. You can drink 100 grams of shahtar when you arrive on the miner's Day, when they were sitting without wages, 1 billion 700 million dollars of debt. They didn't give people a salary, so imagine, on the miner's day, once again, with the majority. It's good to have a dollar to invest in industrial parks and get $6. But these are the conversations that happen today when coal from America is three times more expensive, 75,000 tons, and today our mines are sinking, they're in decline, a technological ecological catastrophe. So maybe we should develop and rebuild Donbas today? Our group addressed you under Law 2070. We've literally recently taken, before we leave, decisions that have been taken out of the free economic zones of Crimea, so let's do them on Donbassa. Law 2070 tells us that we can develop Donbas and allow ourselves to develop a small, medium-sized business. If a single piece of transatlantic companies enter those areas, they can protect their money. They can and will be able to help Ukraine today. Let's see what happens next, what kind of populism is played today by Kabmin. We all know that there is a war going on, and children of war have been given free food since 2014. But someone counted who would compensate Donbas for this money? If 10 children eat for free in Kiev, we have thousands of children born in Donbas, millions of dollars. For example, the city of Rubižna, the new majority of yours today, continued the reform of "successful education" closed down three schools. And today they have to feed their children for free, for what account, 17 million dollars, where to find a city mayor or deputies today? Also in Bilovodska, Markowska, Milovski, Bilokurakina communities, where to look for money today? From industrial parks that won't work today? Let's build a Donbas coal pool and feed people and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u149	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, 114th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I think that from my questions and the comments of all of our other deputies you realize that this law is unfortunately not about the development of scientific and industrial complexes. It's essentially a lobbyism for individual companies that will decide a government without the criteria laid down in the law, and 75 million dollars of budget money, which also, given their extreme deficit, will be distributed at the request of the government virtually on a manual basis without criteria. What are we doing with you? And so, Mr. Dmitri, I address you as an honest politician, and I believe in you and respect you. Tell me, don't you want to be the committee's head now to be taken off the table, go to the anti-corruption committee, get a conclusion, and then put it to a vote? It's important. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u151	I'll bet you 114 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:52]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next line is 142, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u152	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland, Secretary of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy. Colleagues, clearly this bill was not considered during an anti-corruption committee meeting. And it's definitely in this bill that there are corrupting factors that are defined by the Ministry of Justice, that's legal uncertainty, that's also the discretionary powers of the new body that will be created in the future. And so if we want to make a balanced decision with you, and the word "weighted," it's the key in my report, I propose to the head of the committee, and in general to the Economic Development Committee, to send this bill to the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, to correct those remarks that will be contained in our decision. And move on to a new, more brief consideration of this bill at the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u153	Thank you. I'll put 142 on the vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:23]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 142 revisions are not supported. 152 law, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u154	And it is for the sake of avoiding and repeating this situation in the future that all representatives of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee have registered Bill 5834, which allows those bills that have not been concluded for first reading to be referred to the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy for a second reading. And then the next time we sit with you in the Supreme Council Hall and one of the bills doesn't get the result of the first reading committee, we'll avoid this situation. I want to repeat this bill's registration number, this is 5834, and I want to ask all the deputies who are present today to support this bill the next time we consider it during the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much for the correction, asking her to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, just to the knowledge that according to a document card, this bill was sent to a profile anti-corruption committee. Why the committee was not considered — perhaps the matter to the committee. 152. The amendment shall be put to the vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:05]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 157 right, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u156	At 3:30 p.m. today, there will be a meeting of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy. We will certainly examine this question and will soon find out why we did not consider the matter at the meeting of our committee. By fully supporting the concept of industrial parks, technology parks, and innovation parks, such bills cannot be considered without taking into account the current state of the Ukrainian budget. To this day, we can offer our promises to absolutely all investors and invite them to build up and invest in the Ukrainian economy, but if we are unable to pay them the money they expect, we will, in a mild sense, not look very serious in their eyes. We've already passed the bill, it's already the Investment Act. "Investment" is now more than 150 million dollars to be sent to investors, but the Ministry of Economic Development does not know today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u157	I'll bet you 157 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:35]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 212 law, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u158	Carrying on with the previous thesis. But the Ministry of Economic Development doesn't know today exactly where it's going to be taking the money in order to set up these exact funds under the Investment Act. Next. The only thing investors expect today from Ukraine is constants. These are the constants and dependability of the promises made to them by Ukraine. Today, there are many investments in green energy in Ukraine. Today, these commitments are not being fulfilled by the State of Ukraine. Therefore, if we continue to make promises and do not cover these promises with any real action, we will again look, in a mild sense, unseriously in the eyes of investors. Edit the request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u159	I'll bet you 212 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:49]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 230 right, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u160	Questions to the committee head. Why create a new advisory body, taking into account that Ukraine continues to function today in Ukraine as a professional ministry for economic development, taking into account the fact that Ukraine now has a Ukraine Invest to deal directly with these issues? Why are you and I creating another body that will do the same things that we already do, already created and existing organs? Dmitri Andryovich, if you can answer that question, I will personally be very grateful. Because, look, it's one of those very simple and objective questions that I don't have a personal answer to. Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u161	I'll bet you 230 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:02]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the regulations that the authors have insisted on. Now we have three more confirmations. Nina Petrovna, you have two, right? And Mom, one more thing. Then we vote for the law. Invite the national deputies to the hall. It's going to be 250, Nina Petrovna Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u162	I turn to NAZK, to the NABU about the authors of Amendments 250 and 251 (Kisilevski, Nataluha and Marcuka), and I ask you to consider this a request by my deputy. As for standards that were not found in the first reading, which apparently contain corrupt signs. This is about the fact that, starting in 2022, esteemed colleagues, about these 2 billion that had just been heard from many of the colleagues in the hall, did not have this standard in the first reading. It's now proposed every year, for four years, to spend 2 billion on maintenance, i.e. to compensate for the cost of industrial parks, but not just new parks, but also old ones. Please consider who is the lobbyist of this norm and who is helped by the above - mentioned authors. Not exactly for business development. Please don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u163	Committee position. And invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear Nina Petrovna, it's very simple. This amendment was proposed by the committee and voted by the committee and included in the bill table. The decision was agreed on the allocation of these funds with all the ministries of profile. What's more, these 2 billion, which have been talked about and referred to today, they don't even come out of this budget. This is the money that the state will spend on developing a network of industrial parks. With regard to old industrial parks, they will be forced to re-register according to the terms and requirements of this draft law. So I don't see any corruption or betrayal, to be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u165	Ready to vote? I'll bet you 250. The committee took her into account, and the committee now insists on keeping her in check. Do I get it right? I'll bet you 250. Please support and vote. [[13:57:53]] For 275 Decision taken. 251 revisions, Eugene. That's the same for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, this is the extension of 250 revisions. Once you've heard that it's all right to steal 2 billion from our scarce budget from the pensioners. There was no program. And once again, your colleagues, industrial parks are about the incentives that the state provides to make it more convenient for you to work in these areas. It's not about giving money away from the budget. In no country is the budget of those who have set up parks. These are commercial parks that belong to private individuals who earn money. Please tell me, how can you, without the Ministry of Finance, without the approval of the Ministry of Finance and without the conclusion of the Anti-Corruption Committee, now accept the rules, and even the creation of one ministry? There are departments, departments in the Ministry of Economics that are able to deal with this issue. We've already created one gambling ministry for the organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u167	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 251. The committee took her into account. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:59:29]] For 275 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's see the factions. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, number 97.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u168	Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! Mother, "The Opposition Platform for Life." It all starts with a name. Notice, investment parks. The first investor under this law will be the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, he's making money? Which programs, which sites? I'm sorry, who's going to be the host of these sites? That's what we have corporations that don't exist in law? Watchers are, corporations are, exist without paper, on understandable terms. But my amendment is about putting on confirmation, for "authorized state authority." I never figured it out. The reporter tells us that Kabin will finance or authorize a state authority? There's another organ that's going to distribute the funds. Who's going in there? The Kabin will be determined in two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u169	Gregory Mikolaiovich, you must have made a mistake in law because you said about investment parks, and this is about innovation. So it's probably to someone else. Industrial, I'm sorry. Ready to vote? I'll bet you 97 votes. It's supported by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see you agree, too. Please support and vote. [[14:01:26]] For 279 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Law on Industrial Parks, aimed at investing in the industrial economy through the introduction of incentives in industrial parks (Registration No. 4416-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:02:13]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on the formation and placement of state and/or regional staff to train professionals with higher education, professional higher education, scientific, scientific and pedagogical personnel, qualified workers and listeners in the preparatory departments of higher education institutions for postgraduate education (registration number 5467). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:03:01]] For 267 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister of Economy, Głąszczenko Svetlana Volodymiryn, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u170	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The draft law that I'm going to present to you is designed to define the characteristics of relationships arising from the formation and placement of state and/or regional appointments for the training of higher, professional, professional (professional and technical), postgraduate education of postgraduate students, assistants, adjuncts and Ph.D. The bill proposes, first, to establish a separate order for the formation of government procurement and the order for the formation of a regional order for the preparation of appropriate professionals and workers in vocational and technical education institutions. Identify mechanisms for channelling budgetary resources for higher education institutions in private form of property to pay for services in preparation for education recipients from the state budget of Ukraine. Introduce an automated address location of public and regional locations through the One National Electronic Education Base between educational institutions by making recommendations to applicants before entering an education facility. Set the definition of "the average cost of training a single educator." Excluding the term "indicative average cost" because the indicative average cost is not applied to the formation of financial and quantitative government budget indicators, and the reference to it is not contained in the legislation on the basis of which the state budget is formed. The implementation of the bill, if adopted in the first reading and after the second reading, will increase the efficiency of the distribution of free places of higher education and other types of education between levels and specialities of higher, professional, and professional, vocational and technical education. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u171	Thank you. The word is given to the coreporter, the head of the committee’s committee on education, science, and innovation, Olga Volodymyrni Koval. Please, Olga Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u172	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The question of developing new approaches to the formulation of government and regional procurement is very relevant to today’s labour market and education. Those approaches that are now laid down in the law in force are very, very old. The economy is transforming. The labor market is now very, very dynamic. And we need an up-to-date approach to formulating a government and regional order. The Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, at its meeting on 30 June 2021, reviewed the draft Law on the formation and placement of State and/or regional training for higher education professionals, professional higher education, scientific, scientific and pedagogical personnel, qualified workers and prepared higher education departments, for postgraduate education (registration number 5467) (since 5 May 2021) and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on the Forming and Placement of State and/or Regional Procurement for the preparation of professionals with higher education, professional higher education, scientific, scientific and pedagogical qualifications, qualified workers and prepared departments for the preparation of higher education, the professional examination of the basis of general education. Thank you, colleagues. Support as a basis in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Babak Sergey Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u174	Please pass the word to Julia Grishni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u175	Julia Mikolayevna Grishina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u176	Thank you. Colleagues, we have a really important day in Parliament today, because the first day of this session, we are devoting so much importance to the country, to education and to the science of the bill, and that's great. So, as far as this bill is concerned. Indeed, the public procurement system in our country is long overdue and does not meet the needs of the economy or the needs of the labour market, so it needs the fundamental changes that we are doing with you now. This bill is essential to today’s system of Ukrainian education. Finally, we will be able, under clear and transparent rules, to order services from the training of professionals for the state in private education institutions. We're going to get the order to form a regional order, which is very important at the time of global movement of professionals both abroad and between regions. I'm the head of the Temporary Investigations Commission on the subject of Universality, and I don't understand how much there's a demand for needs from certain specialists in the regions. Finally, there will be automatic placement of government and regional orders through a single education base. That means we're going to put the real principle of "money goes after a student" into new categories of students. That is to say, students who have received the highest number of NPAs will be able to study at public expense by choosing a suitable education facility. Therefore, colleagues, the bill is very timely, very much awaited, and I ask you to support your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u177	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Polack Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u179	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u180	Society, I agree with all my colleagues that the bill in question is definitely necessary in its idea. We need to transform education into a country where the market needs it. And regional and national fulfillments are exactly the ways that we can intensify this process. But note what the bill is proposing. The bill proposes that public funds be set up in private educational institutions. So we have, on the one hand, a situation where we lack funds for state universities, especially when it comes to universities that are in the regions that provide education. And there is the question of their optimisation, their unification, and so forth, all kinds of processes. Instead, public funds will be set up for the capital’s private education institutions. And here's the question. Where, then, is justice? Does everyone understand that from the state budget we will support private education? It's a rhetorical question, think for yourself. And the second question. What is the regional order in the bill when the regional councils are completely removed for the formation of a regional order? That is, no oversight council in the area of district administration or district council will be able to influence the formation of these quantitative parameters. So I want to say that this bill belongs to one of the worst examples of legislation. Let's do that, if we want something, we have an idea, we can prepare it in a professional environment and we can discuss it. Given that this bill is needed, we will only support it in the first reading on the condition that the profiling committee is just competent, professional and one that it can.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u181	The word is given to the people's deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u182	Thank you. Please pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u183	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u184	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the initiative is not bad, but unfortunately there is a corrupt component. And I have a logical question. Will there be a request for journalists in the country? And if so, where will they work? Because we have freedom of speech, we're supposed to be fine, only Michael Abramovich, head of Freedom House, is already writing to the President of the United States about the protection of journalists' rights and freedom of speech in Ukraine. Mrs. Ribeiro, Commissioner for Media Affairs, is also paying attention for the second time after three channels and the First Independent about the closure of "Strana.ua" and the attempt to close the "U.S." channel. But I have another interesting question. Why are we not talking about the failure of Mrs. Merkel's visit to Ukraine and the real consequences of the meeting between Green and Byden so far? Where is the way to the peace that has been discussed? As long as I can see the other. The newly appointed Chief of Staff, if I am not mistaken, General Zalužny’s name in an interview with Mrs. Janina Sokolova, wanted to please her so much that he promised the tank to travel around the Red Square in Arbat, but careful not to harm anything. You don't have to measure the length of tanks, you have to be responsible. With Homchak and Knave, I had a completely different view of how to deal with today's conditions, but the fact that they kept the soldier's life is the way it is. And today, unfortunately, we see that with the new appointment of head of headquarters and commander of the OOS, the number of deaths is increasing. And we have to take care of the lives of every soldier and take care of the peace that you, by the way, have promised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u185	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. Larissa Mikolayevna. Is there anyone who's going to make a statement? Thank you. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! The "Trust" MPs will support this bill as a basis, but for the second reading, it really needs to be seriously worked out. We will prepare our proposals, for there are so many comments about the inclusion of local councils, district councils, and regional councils. Because there are actually some questions here, you have to rule out probably so there's no lobbying, no private institutions, because the state has huge financial problems today. And we really believe that the formation of a government order should include not only a medium-term forecasting mechanism, but also a definition of the criteria for formation, because it's a principle for our group position. Because for more than a year, it has to be heard that the formation of government procurement rates takes place using the ceiling principle, i.e., the indicators are taken, the colleagues, from the ceiling. This practice needs to be completed. I realize that it is very difficult to predict the number of professionals for five years, but this work needs to start sometime. And we also need to understand that if we continue to increase our order of nature, in technical specialty, as we do today, it will not solve the problem. Because those who have such midpoints go to easier, they think, specialties, pedagogical specialties. So I think what percentage of them become teachers and they work in five to ten years is a big question. And we've recently made inquiries about the MON, which is about statistics on the vacancy of teachers at individual institutions, about applications for entry into separate establishments, about the distribution of government orders. For 10 years it's never been done. And we need to figure out in detail what's going on with government orders, because as long as we have one mess. We therefore support the bill on the basis of further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u187	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u188	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. My dear colleagues, it is certainly very good that we are starting a new session of Parliament with educational initiatives. But it's a shame that the vast majority of the initiatives we're considering have a pointy, technical character. I agree with what Mrs. Julia Grishin said when she said that our valid State Order Law was long overdue. It's because two years ago, I and my colleagues at Voice were passing a bill to completely replace existing legislation and introduce state funding for higher education. I insist that the changes in education should be exactly the same -- radical and systemic. Because I want to remind you all that 30 percent of Ukrainian school graduates today don't know math. Almost 100,000 Ukrainian youths are learning abroad, who are fleeing Ukrainian universities because they don't like "sauce," they don't like learning simulations, they don't like plagiar rectors in the leadership of universities. I wish we could solve these problems and solve them systematically, not on point. And the bill we will support, we hope to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u189	Thank you. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u190	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, education must be supported, which is the future of our nation. But unfortunately, we only hear declarations because teachers today, especially in regional universities, are actually transferring to half the rate because funding is declining. In schools, teachers didn't expect four thousand dollars of wages, even funding under the New Ukrainian School program. Money came very late, most of these schools couldn't even do anything. So we have to do everything on our own. Guys, join us all. For example, we've opened 19 Gončarenko Centers all over the country, where every child and adult can study English, Ukrainian, history, other languages for free, acquire new knowledge. By the way, tomorrow on International Literacy Day, we're going to make an online dictator and dictator across all 19 Goncharenko Centers. Please join us. Sheep, we have to join, too, because we need to learn language! Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u191	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u192	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, indeed a discussion on this issue, to refresh the current law on the placement of government or regional orders, has not simply been the case with representatives of the Committee on Education and Science. The law needs to be refreshed, and it is really outdated. However, the "Fatherland" faction will not now vote in the first reading because there are a number of dissonances in the contents of the bill that we cannot support. That's the first one. In legislative technology, it's not in line with the Higher Education Act of the new bill. Well, that's two. The introduction of regional education funding to today’s day seems very unclear. Because even public education institutions can't pay salaries for teachers right now because of funding. So the "Fatherland" faction will vote on the second reading if these things are corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u193	Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Establishment and Placement of State and/or Regional Orders for the Preparation of Higher Education, Vocational Higher Education, Scientific, Scientific and Pedagogical Personnel, Qualified Workers and Hearing Officers of Higher Education Institutions for Postgraduate Education (Registration No. 5467). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:21:33]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, several factions have asked for Bill 4376-1 – this is a draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act on the organization of passenger transport. They said no one would insist on the papers, we could put it to a vote. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. That's the second reading, how is that a basis? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act on the organisation of passenger transport (registration No. 4376-1). Ready to vote? It's a second reading. I put it in second reading and in general. Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:22:53]] For 313 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on military education and science (registration number 5641). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:23:27]] For 256 Decision taken. The country’s national deputy, Vereshuk Irina Andriyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u194	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act to amend some of Ukraine's laws on military education and science. The purpose of the law is to improve the educational process in higher military educational institutions. The project is designed to implement article 15 of the Ukrainian National Security Act. It is in line with the Ukrainian Cabinet’s Programme of Activities, as well as with the goals set by Ukraine’s Strategic Security Bulletin. In particular, with a view to implementing the requirements of article 15 of the Ukrainian National Security Act on the definition of the principles of military personnel policy and the preparation of human resources for the implementation of defence planning measures, it is established that the level of military education is "operational tactical" and "operational strategic" following the entry into force of this law is compared to that of military education "operational" and "strategic" respectively. They will be identical to the level of military education of NATO member states. In general, the adoption of the law will be permitted. The first is to ensure a centralised preparation of the special forces of operational and strategic level defence. The other one. To create an effective system of professional military education that will be integrated into the state education system; to motivate the students to enter the Master's degree in higher military education institutions; and to help preserve a highly qualified scientific and scientific warehouse. The implementation of the act does not require additional costs from the budget. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u195	The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Grishin, Ulya Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u196	Good afternoon. Colleagues, the Ukrainian Education Act foresees military education as specialized and establishes certain features of its legal regulation. Similarly, this law establishes that these features should be detailed in special laws. So the bill that is being tabled for your consideration today proposes to amend the special laws on clarifying the content of military education, the powers of the authorities, the realization of the rights and obligations of participants in the educational process, the publication of information on military education and science, as required by the Education Act. What goals do we achieve when we accept this bill? This bill will help improve the educational process and implement Ukraine's strategic course on its way to NATO. We will increase the effectiveness of the training of personnel for the needs of our army, which is very important for the country during the eighth year of the war. In particular, by compiling educational facilities with leaders and teachers who are military personnel with experience in military service and with experience in combat. A clear list of the expertise and content of training programs for military professionals will also be established in line with the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. For the time being, the bill is not fully in line with other laws, so it is proposed that it be adopted in the first reading as a basis for correcting all shortcomings in the second reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the first part of the Rules, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on military education as a result of its consideration to be adopted in the first reading and on a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u197	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. A kiss? Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, when considering this legislative initiative, namely the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on military education and science, we clearly want to say that in a wartime country, in a time of aggression in the East, we clearly need to change the legislation in the field of education of our defenders, our military personnel. And it is the adoption of this bill that will help ensure an effective system of professional military education in Ukraine. So when we vote on this bill today in the first reading, we work out, we reconcile it with other Ukrainian laws to second reading, and we accept it as a whole, it will definitely allow for increased and increased training of military personnel for our Ukrainian army. And so this will give us an opportunity to take our Ukrainian army up to the level at the stage. So I urge you, colleagues, to vote on this bill today in the first reading. The Chamber of Deputies votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u199	Babak Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u200	Good day again, dear fellows! This is really a necessary law, which is actually written to implement the requirements of the Ukrainian National Security Act. This applies to both military education and military science. The committee had already considered the bill and had unanimously supported it. All the steakholders and all the ministries generally support it with little technical comments. Therefore, the committee asks him to be supported in the first reading, and by the second reading, he will be highly refined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u201	Lopushian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u202	My word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u203	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u204	Honorable colleagues, the prescribed bill, are undoubtedly progressive and undoubtedly a step forward in improving, including the system of military education and military science. Yes, for the first time in this law, special powers have been introduced for the authorities of the State, which are subordinated to educational and scientific institutions. It is these powers that have been given to these bodies to improve the management functions of these institutions, which have been a problem for many years now, the function of establishing appropriate requirements, including qualifications, especially the function of determining the number of teaching establishments depending on the variable composition of these institutions. In addition, appropriate levels of education have been established. Yes, in particular, the Education Act introduced for the first time the concept of "professional military education" directly related to solving the human resources issues of our Armed Forces. The Ukrainian Law on Scientific Activities introduces a number of provisions aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of scientific and technological activities. Once again, the stake is based on specific requirements for scientific personnel that will move our military science forward. But when we return to matters of priority and use the presence of the Deputy Secretary of Defense in this room, we would like to ask. What kind of achievement does military science have to make in order, for example, to eliminate the debt owed to our Armed Forces by the size of 1 billion dollars in basic and additional forms of cash that came into existence in the summer, and now it's up to 1.5 billion? How does a mockery of 372 bracelets in the total budget for the celebration of Independence Day say more than 5 billion dollars are associated with high-level military education? What do you need to do about the folding of the software? Now, on the September calendar of the month, we have an uncollected 10 billion dollars allocated for the purchase of weapons and military equipment. Establishing a system of military education and science
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u205	Shapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u206	Please pass the word to Lubin Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u207	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u208	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! This bill will be supported by the MP's Party for the Future, we'll vote for it, we'll all call for it. But I'm paying attention to the authors of this bill that there's a lot of inaccuracies in the legal terms, and that's what the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is paying attention to. For example, let me read a few. For example, in this bill you propose that the term "professional military education" be defined, whereas in the Education Act there is another legal term for "military education." That's the first one. Next. You're using the term "specialized higher education" but there's no such legal term in the Professional Higher Education Act. Next. You use the term "training facility," and in the current legislation everywhere, all laws adopt the legal term "educational foundation." And the next is what you're proposing in this draft of the bill that you're going to set up a ban on working outside the classroom. While you don't decipher work, it's perfectly logical that the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families gives them the right to science and art beyond the academic time. Therefore, some inaccuracies can be corrected for a second reading. So our MP's Party for the Future understands how important and important military education is, we're going to vote in favour. We ask our colleagues to vote in favour, to prepare the amendments, and we need to correct these inaccuracies. Thank you very much. We're all in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u209	Thank you. Kostenko is still motivated, and then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! That military education needed reform was clearly a long time ago and needed to start. And the Voice faction will support this bill in particular to start making changes. I remember learning at the military institute alone in 2005 learning to fight against NATO countries. So we have to change that. And now, with the opportunity, I would like to say that we have a holiday in Ukraine today. And it's a holiday for those people who don't talk much about it. And that's probably the right thing to do. But these people, they're on the front line of fighting an aggressor. These people are on the first line of protection against Russian occupation. Today is the Day of Ukrainian Military Intelligence. I want to welcome our military scouts! Those who have served serve and those who defend the national interests of our country. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the military intelligence of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u211	Heroic glory! Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u212	Thank you, Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! It's time for the Russian aggression to be reflected in our Ukrainian military education. It is the right time for everyone who has protected the front door from volunteering and volunteering to the professional training of our military forces to be able to teach in higher and other military educational institutions for our defenders, for our defenders. It is time for each of the 12 higher education institutions to be able to teach and increase our security in each of the 31 military pulpit. And it is as important to do what is done in NATO member countries. Tactical, operational and strategic military education is what the state cares about and takes care of Parliament. The Fatherland faction for this approach, for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u213	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on military education and science (registration number 5641). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:38:49]] For 331 Decision taken. Shorten lines? You don't have to. The committee says you don't have to. Okay. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activation of the activities of scientific parks (registration number 4236). The zimbaluk insists. Please, at the rostrum of Koluch Valeriy Viktorovich, head of the Committee for Education, Science and Innovation. Please. What adjustments will you insist on? One correction. Cymbaluk, please tell me the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u214	Rectification number - 9.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u215	Nine?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u216	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u217	Please turn on the time to start the Tsimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u218	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! In fact, we really need a bill, and we agree with the goal of improving the effectiveness of science parks and innovation and increasing the results of scientific research. Today, more than 15 such scientific parks are in operation in the Ministry of Education, but they are not an effective tool. There are several reasons. It's also a complex long-term process of creating scientific parks, vaguely defining their legal status, and so forth. We introduced the rights to the second reading, and we wanted to improve in terms of increasing our own infrastructure of such parks, the complexity of renting premises, and so on. But unfortunately, these amendments did not count, and the faction of "The Fatherland" will not vote in favour of this bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u219	I'm betting on the vote of 9th Amendment of Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:11]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Reverend, what's the readout? How much? Two revisions? Two?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u220	Six. I've got six lines. I'm going to insist on each and every one, putting it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u221	Name the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u222	Number: 2, 6, 14, 27, 24, 34, 36, 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u223	Amendment number two. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support our scientists. There is a valid law that imposes too many unjustified restrictions on the activities of science parks, and this bill partially removes them. So, of course, we're going to support this bill. But scientists need tax and customs incentives. And we have to do everything we can to support scientists. I want to tell my colleagues that the size of a state scholarship for prominent educational and scientific actors is one and a half minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs today is 2 000 781 bracelets. And this scholarship size, which was established back in 2011, is now completely out of line with the state scholarship and is a mockery of scientists and educators. As for the amendment, please put number 2 to the vote, which proposes to expand the definition of "innovative project". Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u225	I'll bet on the vote number 2 of the Supreme. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:54]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 6 readjustment, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, as legislators, we should be more careful and thorough about legislative activities, and certain things that we include in bills should meet the requirements of legislation. So I suggest that you make a more correct statement about the allocation of funds from the government budget. Please put to the vote 6 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u227	I'll bet you 6 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:42]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line is 14, Shahov. Your Majesty, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u228	The author of this bill is National Deputy Shahov, please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u229	Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u230	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I've been paying attention to your education, your education, your children. "If we don't teach or feed our children, we will build prisons," they said. In this case, the situation was very difficult in Donbas. In a populist way, the Cabin decided to provide free feeding for children, namely children of war. And that's the right decision. Why is it that we're dividing by language, by child feeding again, by giving to someone, by someone, by someone, by someone? When I was a child, we were fed free of charge in schools. So we insist that there be free feeding for children in all schools. And please pay attention to who will be compensating the local children’s feeding communities on Donbas today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u231	14 amendments, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:13]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next item 27. Chess, Reverend? Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u232	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely we support education, certainly we need today, as the big ones once again said, to learn, to learn and to learn again. But where to learn, please tell me? Ukrainian girls are afraid to give birth and young people want to take a nap abroad. Second, schools are now being closed in villages, villages, areas, in OTG and in cities of district importance. I also attended three closed schools in Rubižnom today. A commission from the Ministry of Education came that said that three more schools should be closed, three more schools, but not out loud so that their parents wouldn’t beat up there and take a nap from the city of Rubizny. So I suggest today that we assemble a temporary investigation commission for those closed schools and investigate whether they were properly closed, or whether we should still teach our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u233	I'll bet you 27 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:44]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The Extremity of the Almighty, Shahova 87. Who? Chess. And invite the people's deputies, and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u234	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Once again, I want to point out to our colleagues that they're going to look at the village of district importance, at the OTG of Bilovodsk, Esug. Where the school is built with UNICEF money, 68 million dollars have been allocated. Today, there remains a wooden floor, no fire safety. 50 children who are now studying there and will no longer be brought there because there are no buses to transport children from OTG. See how the head of the military civilian administration in the Luhansk region is looting today, as opposed to himself. Would he take this money into his coffin today and sew these pockets? Please tell me, how long is Donbas still going to be looting today? The tenth governor is changing today, and nothing is changing in the normal direction: infrastructure is not being built, everything is being robbed in its path.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u235	I'm betting on vote number 87. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:24]] For-63 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the revitalization of the activities of scientific parks (registration number 4236). Please support and vote. [[14:48:53]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Scientific and Technological Support (registration number 5498). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:49:27]] For 264 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Gryczuk Roman Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u236	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The committee is grateful for the support of the previous law on science parks. Indeed, science in Ukraine is disastrously underfunded. Part-time work weeks, self-employed vacations, the drain of skilled personnel, and the worst of all, young scientists abroad, are obsolete material and technology bases. These are the realities that our Ukrainian science faces. According to the Science and Science and Technology Act, the state science support budget is expected to be 1.7 percent of the domestic product. In fact, over the years, this figure is approaching 0.17 percent, ten times less than what is required by law, and ten times less than in the countries of the European Union, where more than 3 percent of the domestic product is allocated to science and technology. The purpose of the bill that I am presenting to the members of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation is to stimulate the development of science and science and technology by reducing the tax burden on scientific institutions. In short, this is the cancellation of VAT and import duties on scientific equipment purchased by our scientific institutions. According to the Ministry of Finance, this is about 300 million dollars that we can leave to our scientists. This is the least that our Supreme Council can do right now is to support the amendments to this bill, the Tax Code and the next Mine. Let's support our scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u237	A member of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy in Kinshasa, Victoria Alexandrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u238	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 8 July 2021 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation for the Support of Scientific and Technical Activities, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Babak and others. The bill proposes to exempt taxes on the added cost of operations from import into the customs territory of Ukraine by state scientific institutions and state institutions of higher education of scientific instruments, equipment, scientific research vessels, spare parts and waste materials to them, reactives, samples (except for excise goods) to provide their own scientific and scientific and technical activities. It is also proposed that the financial and other liability established by the Ukrainian Tax Code be anticipated in the case of the purposeless use of the goods defined in article 282, paragraph 21, of the First Article, of the Customs Code. The supplement mentioned in section 21 of article 282 of the Customs Code of Ukraine is proposed in a bill amending the Customs Code, which we will consider next. In view of the above, and in view of the provisions of article 108 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Act of Ukraine amending the Code of Taxation for the Support of Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities (imposed by Ukrainian National Deputies and other National Deputies) (Registration No. 5498) to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council for the Ninth Calling, and the results of the first reading, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Rules of the Supreme Council, that it should be based on the Committee's mandate to prepare it for the second reading, taking into account the proposals made by subjects of the law of the legislative initiative. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u239	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against the MP factions. Dear colleagues, I'm going to continue this meeting for 15 minutes or when we're done with this. [[B in m in s a l in]] One question. Next thing you know, no discussion, right? No, I'm sorry. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Pippa? Pippa Natalie Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u240	Good afternoon. Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv. This bill has long been awaited by our scientists. That's really what should have been done long ago in our country, because we really have a great scientific potential that we don't realize right now in the development that is then used in practice and raised our economy. There have been many references to this question. I'm the co-author of this bill. We will support it, and we very much believe that this bill and the next, the amendment to the Customs Code, will produce this result that Ukraine truly deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u241	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u242	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues! The news came that Kabmin wanted to introduce a lockdown throughout the country, all over the schools. What's the point, please? So you don't want to go and save money today? In order for children to sit in their homes today and to tire their heads off today, both to themselves and to people, as they say? Please tell me, who will be responsible for the lack of adequate education in children today? Who will be responsible for the child’s running through the streets today rather than teaching lessons? The first September came -- we just celebrated, we're shutting down schools. What will we do next? I told you before, are we gonna build prisons? Ukraine is such a huge state. Can't we make our own vaccine? Can't we vaccinate our children? Can't we invest in our state today because there are no ministers in that bed? Maybe we should get a broom and get them out of there and start thinking. They didn't close schools, they built schools! In order not to close down the maternity homes today but to open up, equip, and allow for the development of the state today. To pay the miners ’ wages so that miners can buy the children into school and textbooks, pens, and wallets, and clothe the child. And you are doing everything you can to prevent your parents from doing that today. Make yourself at home, please. Consider Ukrainian children, Ukrainian education, Ukrainian science, and our scientists who will do anything for us. But pay your teachers a normal salary, give them a normal salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u243	Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Undoubtedly, science and science and technology needs our state's attention, because scientific development is the basis and technological progress that our country so needs, including economics and other areas of life. So, according to a survey of young scientists that makes them think about possible emigration, they've identified three categories: low wages and poor financial and economic state of science, secondly, unfavourable conditions of work and difficulties of professional realization. So I think that these bills really need to be done, but it should definitely be government draft laws. Because as you read, all ministries against it are talking about losses, and we clearly understand that our science needs special attention. And right now we have at least some technology to start spreading and applying here. But what does it take? We can see that the state is not coping with this problem. We need to develop the interaction between science and business, and we have this at a very low level. So I'd like to ask the authors, and I'd like to ask the servants, in large measure, to give this weight and to submit these draft laws, which would be a complex decision. Not 200 million dollars were left in science, but they were really pushing for development. Please understand these are a few questions, this is a complex. And here I am addressing a missing government. If we had previously stolen 2 billion from the state budget for private business, we would have to focus here, and the other way around would be to set up additional funds for the development of our science. So we support the first reading, and the second one needs to be technically corrected. The Customs Code should specify the codes of the U.K.T.S. for clear control of imports of equipment, reagents, and samples for scientific activity. Control is also needed here. We will support both the first and the second laws in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u245	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u246	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u247	Coltunovich Alexandru Sergiyovich. Then Batenko with motive, then Grishna, then we go to the vote. We can miss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u248	Thank you. Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, just told the honourable presiding officer that he had not planned to speak, but an extremely important subject. In theory, it's all right: lowering tax and customs preferences to drive high-tech equipment. In theory, it's the right thing to do, but it's just an example. A person who, for example, receives a pension. Can she, for example, buy a premium car? Of course not. And you tell her we're not going to count you or the VAT. She'll never buy these things anyway, either with a myth or with a VAT. The same is true of academic institutions, for example. Critically underfunded native science. You're from a VAT-free VAT -- they'll never be able to import this high-tech equipment in their lives. First. One second. We have such a budgetary policy that they don't even have a place to pay their wages. Many people know that I came here from the Institute of Agricultural Economics of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. There people work three working days a week, there is even no way to pay for five full - time work days. It's the same in other research institutes of the Great Academy of Sciences. So when you want to solve the issue in a complex way, you'll focus on budget policy, because if they don't have the money to pay the basic salary, the language will no longer go with VAT, with or without a bribe. You see, these are fundamental things. Why did I give you the example of a pensioner and a premium car? He'll never buy it, either with or without VAT. It's exactly the same here. So you can theoretically support, and in practice I support a previous colleague -- between the first and the second readings of the two laws, specify clear codes so that the legislation does not benefit those who have nothing to do with scientific activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u249	Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u250	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Our MP's Party for the Future will definitely support these novels, which are in this bill, changes to the Tax Code. Equally, I propose to Parliament without discussing and adopting the next bill, amendments to the Customs Code. Because science will tell us only "thank you" for the fact that Parliament has somehow intervened to save science in the state that it is in today. At the same time, we clearly believe that this bill needs to be developed into a second reading on the definition of codes for classification of external economic goods that will not be distributed to VAT in order to avoid any corruption. And the alignment of the bill given by the Science and Technology Act, because, let's say, in the Science and Technology Act, there's no scientific literature in paper and electronic form. There are no scientific research vessels, there are. These things need to be reconciled. That's how we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u251	The sin of Julia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, you and I have passed several bills today to support education. Now let's support our science. Quality science, developed scientific parks, all of this is impossible from properly providing institutions with a material and technical base. The exemption from taxes on imports of scientific equipment, equipment, and other important research elements will give impetus to the development of scientific parks and science in general. These standards were provided for in the Ukrainian Science Act of 2015. And so far no one has made any decisions to put them into effect. So this bill is fundamentally important to our scientists. Everyone's waiting for him. And I am very much asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-07-m0.u253	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on support for scientific and scientific and technical activities (registration number 5498). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:04:48]] For 302 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry. Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Amendment Act. (There's no objection, is there?) To the Ukrainian Customs Code of Scientific and Scientific Engineering (Registration No. 5499). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:05:25]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
