ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows, again! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare for registration. I'll tell you what button to register with. Well, it's different, isn't it? You forgot this morning. I can see it in my eyes. Are you ready to register? Hopefully, the registration takes place by pressing the "for" button, the first one on the left or the green one. Ready? Please register. [[16:02:37]] There are 235 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. In turn, I declare the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The list of issues that are to be considered at an extraordinary meeting is given to you, and we are moving on to their consideration. Invite the national deputies to the hall. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on urban reform (register No. 5655). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:03:50]] For 211 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oléna Alexiyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Today we are looking at in Parliament, really, a bill that will have a tremendous impact on development and construction, and all the construction in Ukraine. Dozens of times in this room, colleagues, I've heard the term "corruption in the DABI." Hundreds of times on our interim commission of inquiry, we considered appeals from entrepreneurs and citizens regarding violations of urban legislation. Thousands of times in the various cities and villages of our country there are illegal dwellings that have grown like mushrooms during the last decade. It seems to me that today we are beginning to put an end to the lawlessness that has taken place in our country. This bill is very complicated and very simple at the same time. First, all the participants in the construction process, all the project documentation, all the output will now be introduced into the One electronic state system in the area of construction. And every participant in the building process that works with the documents will definitely leave an electronic trail in this system. That is, you can always track down the person who issued the documents, who signed them, and then get the responsibility. Secondly, local self-government authorities will be given a very broad, strict mandate to respond to illegal self-sustainment. In order to deal with what is being built with a breach of legislation, a violation of the target land use, or a violation of urban conditions and restrictions, local authorities will be able to access and endure such objects without trial. And the third step of our reform is going to be the third bill that we're looking forward to registering in July, and it refers to increased responsibility -- criminal, property and administrative -- for all participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u3	Thank you. Please invite the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u4	Good day, dear chairman, good day, dear colleagues. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Urban Reform (Registration No. 5655) was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on 30 June 2021. The bill is intended to ensure the implementation of the reform of government regulation in the area of urban activities initiated by the President of Ukraine. Therefore, its acceptance is essential for regulating this area, improving the investment climate, and for the development of construction as a whole. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made some remarks, but they can be removed between the first and the second readings. As a result of the general discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft outcome of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. The Committee also decided to request the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules on the need for proposals and amendments to correct, clarify and eliminate errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill, other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and would correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Dear colleagues, I sincerely ask you to support this bill. It's a very important reform that we've all been talking about for a long time, and it's very important that we just accept it in the first reading, and we're going to work with you on the second reading. Please support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u5	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Finally, we're going to break another proud peer of corruption. Every time I come to Lviv, every time my colleagues and I work in the districts, we work with people, mostly most of the problems, especially in historical places, we hear about problems with illegal construction. We hear about problems when houses grow like mushrooms, form ghettos, no sewers, no parks, no gardens, no schools. But huge neighborhoods are formed for corrupt money with corrupt deals. Today we're talking about DABI, one of those organs that is a symbol of this corruption, but I would like us to talk not only about builders but also about human rights. It is very important to deal with changes in construction in a complex way, and it is very important to deal with these problems gradually. That is why today we support the first such strong step towards this reform and for these changes. We support this bill in the first reading, because we have to forget about the phenomenon of illegal oblivion. We have to forget about the phenomenon of "solving" construction issues, because today, when the builders solve their issues, they're going to have to reflect these costs tomorrow. When they reflect these costs tomorrow, instead of slums under windows, instead of parks, and instead of having a comfortable quality of life, we have ghettos and we have illegal fences. Let us fight this shameful phenomenon together. Today we support, and until the second reading, along with all environments, we are working on some technical details by fighting illegal forgetfulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u7	The word is given to national deputy Taras Ivanovich Batenka, Party for the Future, please. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u8	Dear friends, how well this bill was told by the authors and representatives of the profile committee. I also think that this reform is very important, and this bill deserves our attention, our support. But we cannot ignore the shortcomings we need to take away from our second reading. Our analytic group listed at least eight significant comments to this bill. I'll start with the first one. Requirements for the construction of a city hall. It's unclear, 30 of these members, and we've calculated that in some of the uncertainties in this bill, there can be as many as 33 of them, as well as that different representatives from different institutions may have an imbalance in their representation. The second point I'd like to pay attention to. It is a questionable proposal to introduce the principle of alternativeity when a contractor can ask anyone for state expertise: either a government agency, a government inspection, or a local government authority. It looks very much like it's a potential corruption risk, not an alternative. Where there's tails or paws, that's where he's going. We don't have to create these potential loopholes initially. The bill proposes to remove from the content of state regulation the construction and planning of areas at both national and local levels. What's that? This will add foresight to the construction of cities and villages, especially agglomerations? And last of all, society. Local self - government, especially village councils, must not be required to have executive bodies in the field of architecture and construction. And if they don't need it, why create it? What's more, the state won't give.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u9	Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich. Aliksiyczuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u10	Good afternoon, colleagues! In fact, today we are looking at a revolutionary bill on the reform of the DABI. A bill that is really called upon to solve that problem that for many, many years has forced the construction sector to either hide or pay huge defeats. Today it is a bill that has been passed by a large number of working groups, involving local self-government authorities through the Association of Ukrainian Cities, where construction workers have been involved, involving professional specialists, members of the Professional Committee and the Ministry of Community and Territorial Development. It's a joint bill that's called on to really bring the system into the building industry, which is called really to start this new history in the area of construction, and to bring it to a separate level, where everyone will understand how to file documents, which is how to get a few push buttons in the "Dia" plugin to start construction work, how to give work data, how to give completed construction. Therefore, a huge request, colleagues, to support this bill, to join, if necessary, in changing it or under it. Amendments between first and second reading and getting a truly revolutionary change in the sphere of government building control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u11	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Who else? The baboon is a motive. Then we go to the vote. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u12	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Over the last few years, I've heard dozens and hundreds of times how people or businesses who want to build, or develop our communities or our country, build whether it's a factory, or whether it's a store, or whether it's a house, face the biggest obstacle -- it's the wrong one, with the extremely unpleasant permission to start or finish work. And this bill is really revolutionary, because you can get your license automatically by registering in the system. This is for SS1 objects of the category. For more complex objects, however, city councils will be established. By doing so, we give even greater authority to local self - government authorities in construction and in the control of construction. It is this bill that will start a major reform that will reduce corruption in the construction sector. So I urge all of you to vote in favour and start a real beautiful European reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u13	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:17:21]] For 309 Decision taken. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u14	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today the Voice of Ukraine publishes a report from the Temporary Investigation Commission, whose head was Ruslan Gorbenko, in which 70 percent of the "Serve of the People" participated, Sergey the Magnificent, also Alexander Sukhov helped, well, by the way, all the specialists. Big report, you can't read it right away. But between the lines, it's written, once again, in the Lugansk region, the head of the military-civil administration of the vice president's office, who's robbing the area, killing people, burning the area by 40 percent of the forests, and still robbing. There's information and a report from today's volunteers, the military, that in the city of Kremen, I love those people who live there, but I hate those officials who rob, look, they bought a write-off house for 6 million dollars, which cost 500,000 dollars, was on Facebook and all the newspapers. They spent 1.5 million dollars on a project and 70 million dollars on 48 apartments. The Kabin gave the military a million dollars each. They want to buy 70 million dollars from an unknown barracks that's not known where or how. When David Arahamiah was with a group of "ministers of the people" in Luhansk, they were not even met and showed this house that Maxim Tkachenko had driven them to. And today, Highday continues to rob. Next. They invented a core for the circus for 300 million dollars at a time when the HKG system was not built, destroyed, the roofs were flowing, the sun was visible to children and the water was dripping on their heads, the floor was smelling, the heat was not made today, the elevator was destroyed. The entire housing and farm complex has been destroyed. As graves in the area, they cheat hundreds of millions of dollars, and this is poured out into billions. And that's the face today. I don't know whether I got this report to the President or not. But I think the wall is in the office. And not only are we not seen or heard with you today. 319 national deputies voted in favour of the report. And someone has to take responsibility. I'm addressing the Attorney General of Venice. I'm talking to Minister Avakov. I'm addressing all anti-corruption agencies immediately to pick up and investigate. The moon has passed, the cranberry is sitting in a chair, and no one can dig it out. He's running the country today or whatever, please!? Who will be responsible for the death of mankind!? Today, soldiers sit in trenches to rob the state. Thank you. I believe the president will also hear the country's voice today. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u15	Tissue? Did your last name ring a bell? Tsakenko Maxim Mikolaiovich. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I want to, I've talked about this a number of times, but the second year is said to be the end of our work in the Council and the second year is over. It's the second year, when really those leaders that Shah's deputy isn't from our faction right now. But for me, when it comes to Luhansk, there are no deputies from other factions or oppositions and so forth. All that Shahov just said is true. And people are burned in the area. Nobody's been ordered, everyone's working as they worked, corruption's flourishing. I'm not going to be that clerk who's just robbing the Lugansk region. The whole Council probably already knows, and I'm already embarrassed to call it, the pyari of it. We seem to be his pianists at the expense of our work. That's why I'm confirming everything, in Lugansk, it's very bad things, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u17	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget for the Registration of Individual Administrative Congregations for Public Registration in Urban Activities (registrations 5656 and 5656-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:22:47]] For 258. The invitation is made by Schuljak Olena Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u18	No discussion? No, two factions. Colleagues, you ask first, then shout. He's a schmuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u19	Draft Law 5656 is additional to the main 5655, providing for amendments to the Budget Code concerning the distribution of an administrative assembly to be convened upon registration by State registrars of the right to carry out construction and preparatory work. It is proposed that two parts be distributed from the administrative congregation: 70 percent to the local budgets, 30 percent to the state budget, and use them to support the already developed and functioning electronic system in the area of construction. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u20	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich, is invited to attend. The head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u21	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on June 30, reviewed the draft Law 5656 and the alternative Bill 5656-1 on National and Local Budgets of the Administrative Assembly for State Registration in Urban Activities. The differences between the bills, as has just been presented, only in determining the proportions of the budgeting of such a congregation, because the Committee concludes with the standard comments. In particular, the bill does not address the issue of the registration of the congregation by officials of the central executive body. A legal ambiguity has been recognized as the value of an equivalent congregation that is brought together by notaries. It is also emphasized that there is no justification for the real need to ensure the functioning of a single state electronic system in the area of construction, and then the impossibility of a proper assessment of the proportions of the distribution of the congregation concerned. Minfin points to the loss of the general fund of local budgets from the congregation for government registration by local governments. The committee then adopted the following decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council Bills 5656 and 5656-1 to include in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, as a result of the first reading, to adopt Bill 5656 as a basis, commissioning the committee to finalize the proposed bill and to submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council in a second reading. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u22	Thank you. Please sign up: Two for, two for, against, from the MP factions and groups. Alexiyczuk Alexander Vasilovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u23	Alexander Alyxiychuk, 154th constituency, Equinox. Friends, once again, I repeat that a bill jointly drafted by the Committee and the Ministry of the Development of Communities and Territories has indeed been called upon to change the situation, a disgraceful situation that has existed in the construction market for many years. And finally, to regulate the responsibilities of those people at the legislative level, the responsibilities between local governments, the responsibility between the new structure of DIAM, the responsibility between the third parties who will be able to control the construction sector in the market in terms of obtaining permits and controlling the market in the construction sector. So the request to support this bill and finally to launch this anticipated reform of the State Architecture and Construction Inspection, in general, in the construction sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u24	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, when you ask people what's going on in the area of construction, the answer is that it's no worse and that's what all sides will tell you. That's what people will tell you when they see how they grow up under illegal walls, and that's what those people who want to do their business honestly will tell you, and regardless of their size, they always have to come and carry. So this bill, of course, with the previous one, solves these questions. We emphasize once again that in the first reading we supported, this is also a bill we will support. But I emphasize a complex solution to construction issues and problems, and it is also in the area of memorial protection. And now a working group is set up, and there are a number of bills that already have more proposals and observations than those bills. I call on everyone to fight problems and to find solutions to these problems, not to create new problems. I, along with the representatives of Lvivščina, was with this working group, which was based on the Lviv Regional Administration. I urge you to take these proposals into account and, along with the monumental and protective heritage, to win seats for the comfortable living of our citizens. To take into account the construction: social infrastructure, so that we can see with the new garden constructions, so that we can see with the new school buildings, so that we can see with the new parking spaces, and, most importantly, the networks, the sewers and more. So that there wouldn't be any social crises on these houses, as we've seen before. At this stage, we support this bill. I stress that decisions should also be made in a complex way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u26	- Constandavich. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u27	The idea of the bill, especially that it is derived from what we have just adopted, is supported, including by our parliamentary group. If I honestly prefer the ratio of ten to ninety, as is the case with the alternative bill. Because I think 30 percent of the revenue comes from just supporting the electronic register, I think it's a little bit too much. After all, the basic functions will be for the executive bodies of the local councils, and the burden of this responsibility will lie on them, but to start with that, you can start with that. But this story does not solve the main problem that today is in the system of consent and the administration of permits in the area of construction -- bribery. It is common to know that, in real terms, permits to build in large cities are taken by completely different assets and go to very different places. In many ministries, authorities, experts say, there are so-called back office offices. And they say that prices come to the incredible 15 dollars in Kiev, they take $10 a meter in district centers. About a meter. So, respectable lawkeepers, you'd like to work with this part of a shadowy, so-called business, because we can say as much as we like to say, "Halva," but the sweeter the builders in the mouth won't be. Only after we've brought the system into line in all areas, including criminal ones, will we be able to do business in this area, and urban activities, and the main thing is to provide services to people: and quality and European. We vote yes, and we call on the Hall to support us in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u28	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u29	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Undoubtedly, the Fatherland faction will support the idea of maximum transfers of funds from these services to local budgets. And if now, I understand, a 70-by-30 room is ready, no doubt if it's 90-by-10 we'll support it. But the question a little bit in another, perhaps Minister Chernish from the Ministry, is one of the few ministers who decided to fight corruption as much as possible by handing over the function of the Ministry and scattering it between different structures. He may be the first minister to take such a serious step. But I wanted a second reading of the previous bill not to be like this: where we and the water will mold the child and state control over such things will be completely destroyed. And the second part, we can't give these functions to cities that didn't approve of the plans for the general development of cities. Without this, this function will become a fiction because it will allow the builders in the parks, where schools are to be built, and children’s gardens there will grow many stories. So this is going to be our revisions to the second reading, and this bill we will no doubt support. And we think that local self-government should have fixed percentages, which will then be impossible to change, neither by the President's decrees nor by the government's decisions, it should also be by law in the Budget Code. We'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u30	All those who wish to speak? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u31	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". On the occasion that the Minister of Integration is present in the Hall, I am addressing him, bringing together a working group, even from our environmental committee, today I am also head of the subcommittee on Donbas, and going to Luhansk, to see how the objects are being built. Are we saying we're going to make plans or not? It's now going to a school in Eususa, 68 million dollars -- that's very good. But see how it is made, who is doing this school today, who has won the tenders, how the floor of the wood is made! When windows are placed, the jaws are held in two fingers. Please tell me, who will be responsible for such a job? Next. 120 million dollars were spent on two trolleybuses. Good too, from Severodonetsky to Lysicánsk to take the train. But who will ride this train when the pensioners receive 1,000,500 dollars and cannot buy bread and pills today when all the infrastructure is broken, who will be responsible for the waste of that money? That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u32	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Registration of Individual Administrative Congregations for State Registration in Urban Activities (Registration No. 5656). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:35:37]] For 325 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on the Native Peoples of Ukraine (registration number 5506). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:36:05]] For 277 The Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Reznik's temporary occupation of Reznik's territory, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u33	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, a truly historic document is proposed for your consideration. The concept of "root people" appeared in the Constitution of Ukraine 25 years ago, but it was not revealed. And for a quarter of a century, generations of debates continued throughout their lives. Today it is possible to scroll this page and open a new one. The bill, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine, proposes the following things: to open up the concept of "rooted people", to establish that the indigenous peoples of Ukraine, which were formed in Crimea, are Crimean Tatars, Karaites and Crimeans, to define the list of fundamental cultural, other rights of indigenous peoples, and the status of their representative bodies. This document is consensual and this is a foundation that is built on UN principles in accordance with international practice, but taking into account the specifics of Ukraine. He will allow us to focus on concrete measures and guarantee the preservation of our identity and ensure the steady development of indigenous peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is beneficial to the people, most of whom are under occupation and few. But there is no other nation in the world that can fight for them. There is no other authority that can ensure a continuation of their history. We can give a signal that will bring hope back to many, and in summary it will contribute to the return of Crimea and Sevastopol. I hope that this bill supports all the factions whose representatives have repeatedly expressed their support for the Crimean Tatar people, Ukrainians, as well as other citizens in the temporarily occupied territories. I am grateful to all the committees, and I would like to support them in drafting the committees as a basis and as a whole. with the corresponding rights that are noted in the Committee's decisions. Thank you. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u34	The head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u35	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! On June 16, the Committee considered at its meeting the draft Law on the Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine (registration number 5506), submitted by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, indeed, a historical document that has been going on for decades. And we, on the committee, having considered this bill, have decided to propose to the Supreme Council to vote on it as a basis and in general with the technical and legal rights of our committee. There's not many of them, they're technical, they've been noted to us during our committee meeting, so we can do that. I also point out that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its conclusion, supports the proposal for a legislative settlement of the rights of the indigenous peoples of Ukraine and makes observations on the bill. On the basis of these observations, we have reached technical and legal conclusions during the meeting of our committee. That's why the GNEU is here, and we're fully following up on their proposals. The bill was also considered on a number of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All committees support the adoption of the bill. Also, some committees, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Humanities and Information Policy itself, are also proposing to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. I'm not going to list all public organizations, law-enforcement agencies, international experts, all of them supporting what such a bill should have been long-adopted and enacted in Ukraine's legislation. I would like everyone to vote and today accept this historic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u36	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u37	Please give the word to Rustem in moderation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u38	Rustem Enverovich Umerov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, this is really a historic moment when two weeks in Russia say we have the Native Nations Act in Ukraine and it is told 24 hours a day. I want to remind you once again that all countries where there are indigenous peoples usually have such a law. We bring Ukraine's legislation into line with international legislation, including UN legislation. The Constitution of Ukraine clearly divides the notion of "roots" and "national minorities". The Constitution says that the rights of indigenous peoples and Nazis are determined by the laws of Ukraine. However, the National Minorities Act in Ukraine is, it was approved almost 30 years ago, and the Indigenous Peoples Act, 30 years ago. So today is a very historic moment, and we've been waiting 30 years for it. As a person who has come at the age of nine, I am 39 years old, 30 years old, and we are waiting for him. So please, dear friends, we look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u40	Mokan Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u42	Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u43	Thank you. Colleagues, you know, when I was a kid and I was in school in Crimea, there was a moment in the park near my school that a monument was opened to victims of the deportation of Crimean Tatars. It's very sad and embarrassing to be able to define the fact that it wasn't emotional for either of us children or for the older generation. Why was that? Because Soviet and Russian propaganda was doing its job, and on the one hand they were proposing themselves as a brotherly nation, and on the other hand they were trying to eat all those who lived in Crimea. I think that, including playing an evil joke with us, this distribution on the right and wrong, including playing its part in the events of the sad 14th year. Because Ukraine had no direct language, no cultural, no historical, no politics regarding the indigenous peoples of Crimea. In fact, this bill should have been adopted 10-20 years ago because there are relevant UN resolutions, the appropriate position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But there was a lack of political will, and we used manipulation. Although he does banal things: He defines Crimean Tatars, Karaites, and Crimean people as indigenous, he helps to protect their language, culture, and other traditions. It helps their bodies to receive government funding and assistance from donor structures. This bill is our tribute, and this is what we have to begin, to start, actually, the return of Crimea, its integration, to become a major first step in the plan of action of the Crimea Platform. So I ask everyone to support this bill, to support the position of the committee and to vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u44	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u45	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I am convinced that this bill on the indigenous peoples will unite the session hall. And we'll support him as Fatherland. This bill is extremely important, primarily symbolic. Because we understand perfectly that neither the Crimean Tatars nor the Karaites nor the Crimean in the occupied Russian armies of Crimea have any opportunity to develop their national culture, their language. Each empire, and the Russian Federation is such an empire, and will always remain as long as it exists, destroyed just the indigenous nations. Because to their beliefs, the indigenous peoples are a threat to the empire. That is why we, Ukrainians, in our history know and survive more than one deportation when hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians migrated to Siberia just to fill the lands evicted from the Ukrainians. When the Crimean Tatars became the victim of deportation and were evicted from their national land, from Crimea, only to bring thousands and thousands of Russians there and thus change the gene pool of the Crimea Peninsula. This is why it is very important for us even in these circumstances, but to support the Crimean Tatar minority, to develop Karaim, Crimean, and Crimean languages, and to remember that sooner or later, but Crimea will return home, will return to Ukraine. We will restore territorial integrity throughout Ukraine, both in Crimea and in Donbas, and every indigenous nation that lives in Ukraine will know that it can only develop in an independent Ukrainian state that is democratic. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u46	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u47	Please give the floor to the leader of the Crimean Tatar people, Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u48	Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u49	Dear Head, the honourable national deputies, as we know, have already spoken about this, according to article 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the State promotes the development of the ethnic, cultural and linguistic, religious identity of the indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine. However, the definition of the term "rooted nations," that is, the explanation of which nations and what signs they fall under the term "rooted nations," were not there. The reasons here are a few, including here and the resistance of most of the previous cadences to the adoption of relevant legal acts and the very term "rooted peoples of Ukraine" in 1996, I remember this well, was introduced into the Constitution after overcoming the rather strong resistance of the communist pro-Racian and pro-Racian forces in the then parliament. The rights of the indigenous peoples have only been discussed since the Dignity Revolution of the 14th year and the first such act has been the Supreme Council Order of March 20, 14, entitled "The Declaration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning guarantees of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people in the Ukrainian State." We are also looking at a bill that was drafted today with the participation of many professionals in the field of constitutional law, national law enforcement organizations, submitted to the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine. It meets European standards in the field of human rights. And it requires the requirements of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, which Ukraine acceded to in the 14th year. Let me remind you that the adoption of this law is also mentioned in the European Parliament Resolution of February 11, 21.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u50	Thank you. Urban Anatoly Viktorovich. It's a motive. After that, Bacon. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u51	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Of course, today we will consider a very important law to which Ukrainians of Crimean Tatar origin have gone on for 30 years. What we all welcome you to. But as I understand it today, this law will be passed on as a whole. So, unfortunately, we won't be able to make any proposals. So I'm speaking to the head of the profile committee of Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinz from this rostrum today. It's from me. From Mr. Kiss. And the main thing is from all the Ukrainians of Hagau. Based on the new law, do everything possible to make sure that the voices of our Hawaiian Ukrainians are heard because they are worthy of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u52	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u53	We live in a free democratic European country where the greatest value is man. And that makes us different from our neighbors, where this is the main regime, and man is nothing. Along with us are three indigenous peoples in our democratic free European country who do not have their nationality. It's the Crimean Tatars, it's the Karaites and the Crimean. The aggressor also caused them to lose their home, the Crimea Peninsula. And yet, I'm sure, even in the near future, they will. And today, by this bill, we are essentially stressing our democracy and tolerance, which will prevail and prevail in a free, independent, democratic Ukraine. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u54	Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. The committee's proposal is on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine (register No. 5506). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:52:12]] For 331 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on the Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine (registration No. 5506). Please support and vote. [[16:52:43.]] For 325 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show by factions. "People's Servant" – 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 25, "The Fatherhood" – 19, "The Future Party" – 18, "The Voice" – 15, "The Trust" – 13, "the Non-Factional" – 9. The next issue is the bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the administration of taxes and congregations in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (Registration No. 5501). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:53:35]] For 282 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, is invited to attend. Four minutes from the authors and the committee, right? Give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! First, thank you for just by constitutional majority we have voted an important bill for Ukraine and for the Crimean Tatar people, and for everyone else. Thank you. We are now considering equally important laws. I have a speech written here, but I want to start with a personal story first. About six months ago, my colleague Rustem Umerov called me, whom we have just sincerely supported, and asked me to do one more thing that is necessary for Ukraine to be properly represented on the Crimea Platform on August 23 of this year. It has happened that we have occupied Crimea for seven years. And so it happened that for seven years we have a political, legal and economic oxymoron called the Free Economic Zone of Crimea. That's bad. It's something that very often doesn't allow us in the international arena clearly, it's very easy to explain that Crime is an occupied territory occupied by an aggressor country. And unfortunately, the legislation still defines this issue as a free economic zone. And that's why today's laws, which I have the honour to present to you right now, and which will continue to follow the list, we're finally canceling the concept of free economic zone, and we're talking about this is occupied territory of Ukraine. Why is that important? Because this will enable those who remain there to receive help from Ukraine. Because this will allow us to block any list of goods that are supplied in the area of Ukraine through Crimea. Because this will allow us to complete notary matters, to form an inheritance somewhere, and to someone a Ukrainian pension for those who have remained faithful to Ukraine and who certainly does not want to accept the citizenship of the occupying country. Dear colleagues, I understand that we have long recognized this fact. But unfortunately, de jure, we still have the idea of a free economic zone called Crimea. I very much ask you to support the opinion of at least two committees, the Committee on Tax Policy and the Committee on Economic Policy, all those dozens of authors from each faction and group that have co-sponsored this bill, and today also in sync, in consensus, as we have just voted out the Law on Indigenous Peoples, to support the abolition of the free economic zone of Crimea. We need to do a lot of work, and we need to keep clear of the Crimea issue at every international summit, demand increased sanctions, demand that the issue be brought back to the agenda. And today, by our decision on this bill and on the other two, we are taking one step that is precisely aimed at ensuring that Ukraine is whole and that we return every inch of our occupied territories. I am grateful to all who have joined in this work. This is the work of the entire Parliament, as I'm sure it will be the work of the Crimean Platform. And that is why I ask you all to support the decision of our committee and to vote on this bill not just on a basis, but on the basis and as a whole, hopefully by a constitutional majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u56	Thank you. Please write down: two for, two for, and no, on behalf of MP factions and groups. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u57	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u58	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u59	Dear friends, today is a very important day. Today is actually a day of restoration of historical justice throughout a series of issues. Starting with the fact that we've restored historical justice and restored the historical name to New York City, ending with the fact that we've just adopted a truly historic decision and restored historical justice to Crimean Tatars. For those in the occupied Crimea, our DAP is unbreakable, courageous, that gives us reason to believe that Crimea will be, and will remain Ukrainian. And it's up to us now whether we can restore historical justice to yet another very important issue. Friends, you can't be half pregnant, especially when it comes to politics, especially when it comes to politics during war. You can't say "Crime" and at the same time deny the rights of residents of Ukrainian citizens of Crimea and Sevastopol. It is not possible to call for action, increase sanctions on Russia, and legalize trade with the invader at the same time. It's impossible to talk about the fact that we're fighting Russia and actually helping Russia support the occupying forces and the occupying governments. Politics, in addition to everything else, is both the right and the ability and the need to correct our own mistakes. And today we have a historic chance to correct a historic mistake. I will remind those who do not know or for those who have forgotten. It's only in the first year of the so-called Fae Free Economic Zone of Crimea from Ukraine that billions of dollars of goods have gone there to save Russia money to support the occupying forces. We don't have a choice. We have no choice but to take another step toward restoring historical justice. Cancel the funky zone, free economic zone Creme, and take the next steps. Make sure that the oligarchs do not earn millions in blood and war and occupation. I urge everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u60	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u61	Alexei Honcharenko "European Solidarity". Very happy, just five years ago, we had the only parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council on the question of Crimea’s depopulation. And since then, there have been no hearings. And unfortunately, this Supreme Council has not yet held any parliamentary hearings on Crimea's invasion. I think it needs to be rectified as a matter of urgency. And then, at those hearings that were initiated by the Interfractional Crimea Union, which I had the honour of taking the lead in the last call of the Supreme Council, one of the recommendations was the adoption of the Root Nations Act, and I am happy today that this law has been passed. Second, it's a matter of a violation of the Crimea Free Economic Zone Act. And I'm glad that now, I'm sure, we'll do it with you. But these decisions should really be part of the state's systemic approach, not some, you know, say, "fible literate." It's about Phil. Philip Kirkorov, who is performing at a concert on the return of Crimea to Moscow's homeland harbor, is why we forbid him from entering Ukraine first, and then we say, "Please come here." What are we doing? I think our position should be completely consistent. And those who welcome the annexation of Crimea and those who help the annexation of Crimea, whatever they do, whether they sing in feathers, whether they drive goods there, or whether they build bridges there, should be held accountable. If Ukraine can't handle it, I'm sorry, with Bedrosovich, how are we going to fight Vladimir Vladimirovich? So I invite all of us to hold parliamentary hearings on Crimea and to conduct daily policies to bring the Crimea home. And that means being tough and consistent. Crime is Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u62	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Dmitry's wallet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u63	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I'd like to make a trailer for our colleague Alexi Hotcharenko's speech about the failure to hold parliamentary hearings on the question of the Crimea's invasion. Such hearings were scheduled, and they were scheduled to hold parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council, but unfortunately we had a COVID pandemic. But we did a committee hearing where we found it perfectly correct to break the free economic zone of Crimea, and at our committee meeting, we have repeatedly raised this issue of drafting similar bills. So the MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of the main bill. We also call for a vote in favour of the next bill, which is related to the distinction between the free economic zone of Crimea. We fully understand that the previous Parliament, when it made this decision, was based on the fact that these are Ukrainian citizens who stayed and lived in the annexed Crimea territory, but actually these rules ensured that they started paying more taxes. So it became totally discriminatory with regard to them, even though they were Ukrainian citizens. So, of course, the logic behind the adoption of these related bills is, we call upon all the national MPs, as we voted for the indigenous peoples before, and this is an indicator of how we relate to our territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, also for this bill and for the next to vote by a constitutional majority of more than 300 votes of the Ukrainian Parliament's national deputies. And to show the whole world that Ukraine is Crimea and Crimea is Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u64	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u65	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to your colleague after the faction of Andria Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u66	Nicolanca.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u67	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, of course, this bill and the next two, which are related, solve the long-standing problem that exists, which creates both social problems for citizens who remain in the temporarily occupied Crimea and for the economy of Ukraine, which suffers and vice versa, creating certain benefits for the economy of Russia, which occupied the Ukrainian Crimea. So it's kind of a weird logic that we first vote on the tax bill, then the basic bill and then the customs bill. I am sure of course that all three laws will be supported and supported unanimously as they were supported and at our committee meeting. These gaps have to be corrected and all the arguments have been made, we have to geopolitically keep reminding us that Crimea is Ukraine and do everything we can to get Crimea back under the control of its state, and the Ukrainians in Crimea have not felt discriminated against, including economically, because of the existence of a truly fair free economic zone. So please support, Fatherland will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u69	All those who wish to speak? Rich Elizabeth Petrovna, then Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u70	Colleagues, the point is that when this law was passed, it was passed practically in 2014, it took place practically after the law on the same free economic zone in Crimea was registered in Russia. The difference is that the Russian was 25 years old and the Ukrainian was 10 years old, if necessary. I now invite everyone to join us in voting on the abolition of the free economic zone in Crimea, because free economics cannot be occupied. I very much ask everyone to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u71	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u72	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I'm sure Trust Group will support this bill. But I would like to address you, my fellow officials, and draw attention to Donbas, the peaceful Ukraine of Donetsk and Lugansk. Our team has registered a bill of 2070 on free economic zones that could allow an investor today to enter the peace areas of Luhansk, Donetsk Region on Donbas and influence economic development, to fill Ukraine's budget. Sadly, though, for two years this bill has been left untouched by the authorities and is not even considered on committees. So I demand, as a representative of Donbas, to go through the committees with this bill to support it and give new blood to Donbas. Development of economic construction, enterprise development, industrial base, and thus filling Ukraine's budget, allowing Ukraine to develop today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u73	Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. The committee recommends both on the basis, and in general there is no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the administration of taxes and assemblies in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:10:02]] For 327 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the administration of taxes and assemblies in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (Registration No. 5501-d). Please support and vote. [[17:10:47]] For 329 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the law on introduction. Excuse me, the draft Act on Recognition has lost effect of the Ukrainian Act on the Establishment of the Free Economic Zone of Crimea and on the peculiarities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration No. 5502). No, well, what do we vote on? Well, go over there and make a deal with your colleagues. Vote. National Deputy of Ukraine Umerov Rustem Enverovich I'll bet you a vote. We'd go full now. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:11:52]] For 277 Decision taken. National MP Umerov Rustem Enverovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u74	First of all, thank you very much to all the MPs who voted in favour of the Root Nations Act -- a truly historic event. It's about canceling the "Crime." First and foremost, we're cleaning up the term "non-resident." So if you live in Crimea, you think you're a foreigner, so this law needs to be repealed. And in terms of human rights, it was a discriminatory law. Therefore, please, dear colleagues, this too needs to be supported. It's also a powerful signal for the occupied territories and our citizens who are now living there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u75	You can't hear. National Deputy of Ukraine Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u76	I'll tell you very briefly. Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting the past bill is a continuation of the same subject: the lifting of the free economic zone of Crimea. It's a very important question that I'm sure I'm not going to get 325 votes, but more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u77	Mr. Jaroslav Ivanovich, Secretary of the Economic Development Committee, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u78	Dear head, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 16 June 2021 reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine on recognition of the validity of the Ukrainian Free Economic Zone (Crime) Act and on the specialities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, and on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine (Registration No. 5502) (submitted by the National Deputies Rustem Umerjerov and Jaroslav Železniak). The same as the bill, but alternative to the authorship of Jaroslav Železniak, number 5502-1. The purpose of Bills 5502, 5502-1, as indicated in the explanatory notes, is to abolish the regime of the free economic zone of Crimea in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and to establish the characteristics of economic relations in the temporarily occupied territory, taking into account the restrictions imposed by occupation and the demands of international partners. In addition, draft laws propose to regulate the entry and exit of persons into and out of the temporarily occupied territory, to strengthen the right to free secondary legal assistance for Ukrainian citizens who live in a temporarily occupied territory and to ensure the realization of the right of inheritance for such persons. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus concluded on June 15, 2021, comments on the bills submitted. During the discussion, members of the committee noted that there was a need for adoption of the relevant law today, but not in the form given. It is therefore proposed that Bills 5502 and 5502-1 should be amended to take account of the requirements of part two of article 110 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraphs 1 and 2 of part one of article 12, paragraph 1 of part one of article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to submit an amended bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, according to the outcome of the discussion of the National Deputies of Ukraine, the members of the Committee, under part two of article 110 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have decided to support and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Recognition in such a way that it has lost the validity of the Ukrainian Law on the Establishment of the Free Economic Zone of Crime and on the peculiarities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, and to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee recommend that it be included, as well as bills 5502 and 5502-1 in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that the results of the first reading of the adoption of the draft law on the basis of the national registrations in question of 5502. And Bills 5502 and 5502-1 are rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u79	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. If a faction does not insist on the performance, it may not be recorded. Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u80	Please pass the word to Mr. Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u81	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u82	Society, despite the technicality of this bill, I would ask colleagues who didn't read it, which I understand is 90 percent of those present in the room, to pay attention to a standard that I personally disagree with. By deciding whether or not to compare the rights of Ukrainians who live in occupied areas in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to Ukrainians in equal rights to use the banking system, we also give them the opportunity to receive a Ukrainian pension even to those who receive social benefits from the aggressor country. And I feel like it's wrong. So I would recommend that my colleagues support this bill in the first reading, clear it up and then vote for it as a whole, endorsing in principle the idea set by the authors of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u83	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u84	Please give the word to Ahtem Chigoz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u85	Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u86	Dear colleagues! I won't take up much of your time. Thank you all very much, for all of us, for this decision that we have made and demonstrated, who is the enemy of Ukraine and is a state of mass destruction today, Russia. And what we have accepted today will greatly contribute to these hopes, faith in the Crimea and not only to the Crimean Tatar people, but to all of our Ukrainians. This, of course, will be a factor of unification, like Crimea, a factor of unification here in Ukraine. As far as this law is concerned. It's all about time. And those who today say there are problems with pensions or with some businessmen, or with something else, are in the past. Today it is our face, the face of our state, the face of our power, the face of our Ukraine. That's why I'm calling, on the basis and in general. Take that question off forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u87	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law on recognition of such that it has lost the validity of the Ukrainian Act on the Establishment of a Free Economic Zone "Crime" and on the characteristics of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine" and on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration No. 5502-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:21:23]] For 323 Decision taken. All of it? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Recognition, which has ceased to be valid under the Ukrainian Law on the Establishment of the Free Economic Zone of Crimea and on the peculiarities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, and on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration No. 5502-d). Please support and vote. [[17:22:08]] For 328 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian law on recognition of such that it has ceased to be valid under the Ukrainian Law on the Establishment of the Free Economic Zone of Crimea and on the peculiarities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and amending certain legislative acts (Registration No. 5503). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:22:52]] For 275 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Umerov Rustem Enverovich, 5503, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u88	Dear friends, this is a continuation of these laws. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u89	Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u90	Colleagues are asking for directions. Colleagues, changes to the Customs Code, one page. I'd like to support you on the basis of technical law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u91	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups of those who want to. Don't yell, come to your colleagues, make a deal, Gus. It's pretty good, but there's not enough robots. Or come along, make a deal. Thank you. When you're here, you'll make your decision. Write down those who want to perform. Umerov Rustem Enverovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u92	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u93	Thank you. Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u94	Please proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u95	Thank you for your position. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u96	Please give the floor to the leader of the Crimean Tatar people, Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u97	Mustafa Jemiliev. Igor Volodymyrovich, what are you silent about? Offer something.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u98	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today we are considering a bill repealing the Crimea Free Economic Zone Act on the characteristics of economic activity in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory since September 27th, 14th. Also related to the repeal of two draft laws to amend the Customs and Tax Codes accordingly. The practice of more than seven years of occupation of Crimea has shown that no economic activity of Ukrainian businesses in Crimea is possible. And in general, the term free economic zone under the terms of the terrorist occupation regime sounds absurd. The second absurd thing is that we, on the one hand, urge our allies and the world society to step up sanctions against the occupying country, as well as to completely block any activity on the occupied peninsula, while at the same time viewing this peninsula as a free economic zone. This situation is greatly damaging to Ukraine’s efforts to liberate occupied areas. I'm reminding you that, with the repeal of the Crimea Act, the Ministry of Interim and Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the participants in the 15th-year trade and energy blockade, the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, many other members of the Supreme Council. In addition, the existence of a free economic zone impedes the implementation of a series of measures envisaged by the Strategy for Depopulation and Reintegration of the temporarily occupied area adopted by the ORP on 11 March of this year and approved by the President of the country. I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of all three of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u99	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Recognition of the Law on the Establishment of the Free Economic Zone of Crimea and on the Specificities of Economic Activities in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine and on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration No. 5503-d). Please support and vote. [[17:27:34]] For 335 Decision taken. In general. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations for the draft Law, registration number 5503-d. Please support and vote. [[17:28:05]] For 330. Decision taken. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Gerasimov. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u100	Dear Ukrainians! First of all, I'm talking to the Ukrainians right now. Now in this room, you're going to be playing a very interesting comedy called deligarization. From which they plan to make a whole big series to keep the rating. The people who are in power today are specializing in what they've done on comedy. I think they keep doing this. Only if once Zelensky's comedy, along with Kirkorov, was called "Love in the Big City." So what's going to happen right now is you could call "Love With Big Guys For Gross Money." Why? Well, you know, this whole law that you're about to introduce here, it's actually the most similar of all to this mega-corruption scheme, based on the principle of entry, ruble, output, 10. I hope everyone read this project. And it was wonderful to see how we were offered to appoint oligarchs. He's sitting all over the PNB. She's voting for enrollment. It gives beautiful briefings. Next up, everyone goes on TV. And then the PNB excludes from the oligarch register. Without any criteria. Without understanding why or how. You know, it's kind of like, "Boys, open case!".. Only budgeting is offered by websites and television channels. So the question is, are you going to pick up cash or not? Well, I think they're taking cash for the envelopes now. I want more money. And the biggest comedy is that the oligarchs are happy to vote for this law. Because they know very well that this is all a game. Electric games. And that the same oligarchs will continue to receive their profits tomorrow. Because then the authorities will just pick up the tariffs. And people, millions of Ukrainians, who are going to watch the show on TV, are going to pay higher tariffs to these same oligarchs and allow the monopolies to continue to receive profits. So, you know, it's a pretty bad and unfair comedy. She really remembers, most like a farce, a farce like a fight against smuggling, a billion trees and similar empty and funky things. In order to fight the oligarchs, we need to adopt antitrust legislation, not take the oligarch people on the list of deputies and not appoint them as ministers. But this isn't going to be in this room right now, there's going to be a show of delligarchization on every channel in the country. And now the beginning. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security Threats, which is linked to the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs) (registration numbers 5599, 5599-1, 5599-2, 5599-3). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:32:16]] For 264 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:32:38]] For 256 Decision taken. Malijka Denis Leontijovich, Minister of Justice, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u102	Good afternoon, colleagues! With your support, the Presidential Bill 5599 on oligarchs is proposed. I think that its contents are already known to many people’s deputies. So I'm just going to briefly outline the basics of this bill, and I'm going to stop at a little bit more detail on the criticism that came to the address of the GNEU bill. So it's about the concept of the bill. There are four signs to determine whether there is an oligarch or not. For an individual to be recognized as an oligarch, at least three of the four signs are appropriate. The decision to include a person and to recognize him as an oligarch, the inclusion in the appropriate oligarch register is made by the RNA. The PNDP can make such a decision by submitting any member of the PNP, Kabmin, BNP, Nazibank or Antimonopoly Committee. As a result, restrictions on the inclusion of an individual in an oligarch register are imposed. Such restrictions include the prohibition of financing political parties directly or indirectly, the prohibition of participation in large privatization, the submission of declarations. And the mandatory declaration by top officials of contact with oligarchs or their representatives. Regarding GNEU’s criticism. A few key theses. Again, we disagree with the criticism made by GNEU for several reasons. In the case of unconstitutionality, because it seems that the PNB does not have such powers, its mandate should duplicate the President's authority. This is totally not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Part 8 of article 107 of the Constitution of Ukraine indicates that the mandate of the PDO is defined and functions are defined by law. Actually, that's the law we're regulating. For failing to declare here, GNEU says there is no responsibility. There is a criminal responsibility. You recently passed a law where you made the necessary changes. This is true of other provisions of the GNEU. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u103	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Leonidovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, how does our project differ from the previous one? First of all, who decides who might be an oligarch? In the Presidential Bill, it's the President himself and the PNB, who has no authority to do checks or appoint someone, and where everyone sits, the people of the same party, the party of power. We have the NAZK, which works with the Antimonopoly Committee, which, by the way, is under the control of the President. NAZK keeps the relevant registers, and it has all the authority to do so, as opposed to the NZBO. Who is the oligarch of the presidential bill? Blogger. Half of you are oligarchs, because the owners of the body and the radio channels are not oligarchs under this bill, and the bloggers are. Who are the oligarchs according to our bill? There are clear criteria: the cost of assets is checked, there is a potential impact on key public officials, there is an influence on the media, not only corporate, but also those who finance them and how. We don't accept the fight against bloggers, Mr. President, we take not only the fight against oligarchs but the fight against corruption. What is the effect of the Presidential Bill on the oligarchs? None. Besides, they don't participate in much privatization. And if someone takes the money to the decision maker, he will take part. Here's the "free deposit" that colleague Sumar was talking about. We have a clear set of commitments, including in enhanced monitoring of good oligarchial enterprises, so that they do not become monopolies running AMK and NAZK. You suggest that the oligarchs continue to finance parties and political movements. We prohibit and control NAM and election committees. You don't control the oligarch media, you don't care because you think they'll bring it to you. We demand a clear balance of information that will be controlled by independent public organizations. Don't turn the Supreme Council into a circus! You want to get money from rich people, you get it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u105	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, what have you been doing for a year and a half? You allowed the disconnection of our Ukrainian state AES to make the oligarches that own TECs. You destroyed a small and medium-sized business to earn the oligarchs who own what? Networks of supermarkets and hypermarkets. You've allowed tariffs to rise and you've taken all the benefits to make another oligarche. And then yesterday, you passed Oleg Valeriyovich's bill, which will make more money for the liquor and the oligarchs, and the Ukrainians will pay more for the gas. You're helping our oligarchs. And they've made more in recent years. Look at Forbes. If you really want to fight the oligarchs, we will help you. We will vote in favour of these bills. But, for example, my bill, it clears a conflict of interest to decide who's an oligarch and who's not an oligarch. Because we understand that there are also oligarchs in the RNA, or those from the oligarchs there. I also suggest lowering the oligarchs ’ plank. Because we have the same oligarches, not only in Kiev, but also in other cities that own media that have their own parties and that make money in power, these are oligarches. And so they don't have the opportunity to take state office. I therefore propose to vote in principle for all the bills. I understand it's populism and you won't fight oligarchs. But still, if you will support me, please, my alternate bill, please vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u107	Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u108	Andrew Nikolaynko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, this whole Bill 5599 thing, and all the versions, it's turning into a farce. Because, as one of the colleagues who spoke earlier said, we begin to determine who is a suitable oligarch by this law as the main president, who is uncomfortable, who should be arranged, and who should be commanded. I said by presenting our bill after registering that oligarchs are not born, they become. And this is because it's the way politics is made up in Ukraine. And our bill is by no chance called "On Honest Politics and Honest Power," because it normalizes a situation where big business is inconvenient with politics. Because he makes the matter uncomfortable, dangerous. We're in. We have not one bill, but three, one amending the Administrative Code, the other amending the Tax Code. And the oligarchus becomes expensive in the first place, and the taxes will be paid by the larger ones that are not mentioned in any of the bills. The oligarhams will not be able to finance political parties because we are amending our law to the procedure for financing electoral processes, and thus they will not run the party heads and look in the pocket at any other businessman, because they will all have the same conditions. Another direction is access to the media. We understand that the main campaign that has already been said is to change media control. So we're saying that whoever doesn't control the media can't have their own judgment to give media access to one or the other kind of political power, its manual political power, and they'll all be in equal conditions, and we're setting these limits. So if the Council really wanted to overcome such evil Ukrainian as oligarchy, it was necessary to work out all the clever things that had been made in alternative bills, and to adopt one normal amended law. But if.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u109	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u110	The word is given to National Deputy Pusharenko Arsenija Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please, Alexander Kachura, you're being handed over.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u111	Turn on the Kachuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u112	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Please pass the word to Peter Alexiovich Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u113	After you have been given the word of a colleague, you cannot pass it on, Alexander Anatolyevich. Next. The next speaker is Anna Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future will definitely support the bill against the oligarchs. Because that's what we've all been waiting for, because one of your live colleagues on one of the TV channels said he was waiting for the oligarchs after the bill was passed. And they expect that they will not be able to communicate freely with people, they will be isolated, they will be sick, and they will ask to be excluded from the list. That's what your colleague said. By the way, you know, about the list, it's really very funny. But if an oligarch, for example, controls an RNB, he's like the President, what do you want to do? Does he take himself and take himself off the list, or what? And what's interesting is, if an oligarch is a husband and a wife, they're like self-insulated, or how do they declare their relationship, what do they do, what do they declare it to? And what's interesting is that you write "declaration of contacts." Can I be more specific about what kind of contacts? Because most of the halls here are interested in declaring contacts, because contacts can be different. Then why don't you explain to us what contacts need to be declared and when the contact is counted, and if it doesn't count when it's fake, then why don't you explain it to us, dear colleagues, what are you doing? And interestingly enough, we've got the NABA, the PNBO, let's create a BBO -- the oligarchs' office, I'm even willing to lead it, just, please, a couple of billion to finance, because that's not going to happen. What can be added? We all remember the slogan "Each of us president," now "each of us oligarchs." Let us share with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u115	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u116	Dear friends, honestly, it's nice to read such bills, it's just so shaky that you want to laugh real. Frankly, I find it difficult to blame myself for being there for the oligarchs, the only politician I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm glad you like it. I'm glad you like it, I'm so glad you're meeting me like this right now. But I want to tell you that I am the only politician that the oligarchs have thrown into prison. And while I was in prison for their decision, the 95th quarter I used to run for money in companies in oligarchs like playing the piano, and I actually knew that very well. And so, my dears, this law is like legalizing an oligarchy here and, I think you all understand that. Part of the great "minister of the people," formed by the oligarchs, and much of this Parliament. Let's see how they vote for this law now. They will be happy to vote because this law is given to them, at large, by the drum. Because there's the punishment, in the paws that these oligarchs predicted, it's funny, it's the same thing that you know, threaten them with your finger. Like don't fund your accounts, political parties, they've always financed you like this, and now you're being funded out of bills, ridiculously. They say, don't take part in privatization, so they've privatized everything, that they're still privatizing, don't engage in absurdity and propaganda. We're not voting for this law, we're making our own, and you're just gonna look funny.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u117	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u118	I wanted to give the word to my friend Kirkorov, an oligarch of Zelenski, but he was afraid to come to Parliament to present the bill. That's why Geo Leros's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, if you have begun to speak, do not pass on the word, but finish your time, please. No, no. The speech began, there was no request to submit, it was said who should speak, Irina Volodymyrna, finish, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please speak, Irina Volodymyrna. No, no, Irina Volodymyr, please. Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u120	Friends, you know, this hall isn't just afraid of the other oligarchs and the oligarchs and the friend of Kirkorov Zelensky here to invite and listen, because they know what they're going to tell him, and they're afraid to listen to Geo Leros, okay. Then let's say I remember his last name right now. Geo Leros brought Razumkov and Zelensky here. And Geo Leros, I demand to give you my word because I'm going to mention him critically right now, because this is the whole guy who's sitting here, namely Geo Leros, I'm sorry, he was brought here by Zelenski and Razumkov. Smartow was the first number on the list of the oligarchs of this "Serve of the People" and was led there by a friend of "servants" and oligarchs of Zelensky. And actually, that's where Geo Leros came in. And I think that Geo Leros should now tell us whether he was ashamed to be among the "servants" brought here by Razumkov, who included full friends of the oligarchs and, of course, blessed by his friend Kirkorov Zelensky. And Zelensky should be here today to tell you whether it's funny to make very funny promises every day: about a billion trees, about a billion children's playgrounds, about fighting oligarchs, when his rhinos fly on oligarchic helicopters at a meeting where they meet with oligarchs. But unfortunately, Geo Leros might know more about this because he was on these lists of "ministers of the people" from this law they ruled out the need for the PNB to report on how they met with the oligarchs. I'm sorry there's no President's Office here today, because this law and the Office are not supposed to report on how he's dating. Geo Leros! If you go out with the oligarchs, will you report it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u121	The replica. Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u122	Deputies! Ukraine’s most famous couple decided that they were ready for the next step: Zelenski and Jermak want to officially become oligarchs. This seems to be the only purpose of this bill, because this is a complete farce, let's look at this farce. In the Greens Act, the value of an oligarch’s assets should be about 2 billion dollars. Is there any doubt that Zelenski and Jermak did not rob the country for 2.5 years for 2 billion dollars each, so many Banks bring only the "real schemes" of Germany. It's number four. Green's got a whole monopoly on lies, it's a whole field of populism. Shame on him! And it's a shame for every one of you to vote for this shit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u123	The head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Alexander Mikhajlovich, is invited to attend. And wait, for reasons. Who's the motive? Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. After Rahmanin, no one insists? All right, Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u124	Dear friends, there was such a clever man, twice the speaker of the Supreme Council, John Plush, who taught young law makers in his day. He said you have to write everything you want and have three criteria: your offspring shouldn't be afraid, they shouldn't be ashamed and they shouldn't be funny. As a matter of fact. This law is not scary to the oligarchs; it threatens them no more than the deep concern of Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, an unnecessary confirmation of this is that the vast majority of people associated with the oligarchs today vote in favour of this law. It's about shame. I was a little ashamed of Mr. Malyyuk's justice minister, who, for some reason, introduced this law, because the author of the law was the President, secondly, an hour ago on the committee shared his unrestrained legal fantasies, which were very unsuccessfully wrapped in a legal envelope and did not even mention a legal act in which the threat of national security was concealed. And on the funny side, it's a very funny law, because, for example, if Denise Leonteyovich Malyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy! How's it going?"and he'll say "nothing," that'll be the reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u125	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. The head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Alexander Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u126	Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on June 30, 2021, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of National Security Threats, which is linked to the excessive influence of persons who have significant economic or political importance in social life (registration number 5599) (from 02.06), submitted by the President of Ukraine and designated as urgent for the immediate consideration and alternative to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Following a review of the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 5599), the committee concluded: First. Recommend to the Supreme Council to include a bill in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and on the basis of the first reading of the bill, taking into account the proposal of the committee on the need to complete the draft when preparing for the second reading by amending certain legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and which correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. The other one. Invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to shorten the deadline for amendments and proposals by entities to the legislative initiative by half. Alternative Bills: Registration number 5599-1 from 15.06. 2021, submitted by the People’s Deputy of Ukraine to the Principality and other National Deputies, registration number 5599-2 from 16.06. 2021, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polyakov, and registration number 5599-3, dated 17.06. In 2021, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Nikolayenko and other National Deputies. The National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee recommends the inclusion of the ninth call in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the results of the first reading of the rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u127	Let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u128	For everything. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for second reading, as set out in part one of article 116, of the draft National Security Risk Prevention Act, which is linked to the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs) (registration number 5599). Please support and vote. [[17:56:55]] For 275 Decision taken. In general, yes, as always? Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" - 231, "The Opposition Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 0, "For the Future" - 18, "Voice" - 0, "Trust" - 18, "non-factional" - 8. I would like to place a motion on the vote, as set out in article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, for a reduction of half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and allowances and preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 5599. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:57:52]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure a balanced budget income (registration numbers 5600, 5600-1, 5600-2, 5600-3 and 5600-7). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:58:45.]] For 243 Decision taken. Minister of Finance Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u129	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure a balanced budget revenue. Lately, many insinuations and political speculations have been taking place around the bill, as if the authorities were trying to push honest business by collecting the maximum taxes. But that's not true. The proposed changes will only affect business representatives who have been accustomed for many years to following the standards that have been written specifically below them and to enrich them. In particular, it's about countering VAT scraps, abuse of VAT damages, about the environmental tax on carbon emissions, which is the lowest in Europe and in the world, the size of the tax on drug use. The individual taxes, determined in absolute terms, have not been reviewed since 2017. It is an excise tax on alcoholic beverages, rents for the use of cellular radio connections, and others. But the time has come for change. The president promised clear and only tax rules for everyone. Anyone who gains income must pay taxes honestly. We, the responsible state, have to ensure a decent level of wages for the medical and educational community, pay pensions at the proper time, support the military at the defense of our borders. There is now the President's political will and the government's destruction of schemes that have been working for decades. The Minfin Bill is designed to do this. Thanks to the elimination of schemes, income in the budget will increase by 50 billion dollars a year. The bill will not affect the average citizens of small businesses who work openly. But some groups will have to review their rules and start paying fair taxes. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u130	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, this bill has somehow been called a bill against the oligarchs. There is indeed a rise in some taxes for large financial and industrial groups. And I put an alternative bill with my colleagues, which is one in a row, a dot in a dot that reflects these increases in taxes. But this bill does not apply in any way to oligarchs by 95 percent. I'm sorry when we're setting a ban on any business manager or director going abroad because there's a tax debt, it's not fighting oligarchs. When we introduce a tax on the sale of apartments by 20 percent of the people who buy, raise money, and can finally buy housing, it's not a fight against oligarchs. When we're talking about tax is now going to have extraordinary powers to block any activity, because they thought that an extra billion would have to be added to the ashtray, it's not fighting the oligarchs. When we talk about business paying income tax until they get that profit, it's not fighting oligarchs. When we raise taxes on people who have their own land 17 times when we say that a man who has 2 hectares is an oligarch and that's why we tax it, sorry, it's not even cynicism, it's total propaganda. Dear colleagues, there are indeed some standards in this law that I personally consider appropriate for large industrial groups to pay more taxes. But it's made up of a few dozen pages. And a page about oligarchs there, well, 2-3, maximum 4. Everything else is about you and me, everything else is about killing a normal business and driving it into the shadows. So I will definitely vote against this bill. And if you want to vote against the oligarchs, vote for our bill from the Voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u132	National Deputy of Ukraine Rublov Vejacheslav Volodymyrovich. Don't insist. National Deputy of Ukraine Müb Victoria Alexandrovna Will you be performing? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, when during the pandemic, during the economic crisis of the world, trying to raise taxes, I think it's a criminal offence. And it's not about fighting the oligarchs, it's about fighting the people of Ukraine. Let's think about, if taxes go up, what's business going to do? Business will cut jobs. If jobs cancel out, would you please tell me where those people are going to go that are going to be reduced? They'll go to the labor market. If they go to the labor market, where will we take the money to pay them? I think there's a substitute for that. And that's why I'm asking you very much today not to vote in favour of the Government Bill 5600. Because they're all alternate, they're either way better than 5,600. But I'll tell you that they're also problematic because they're talking about raising taxes right now. Look, please, now what we have on the world market. All governments are practically supporting their business, they're borrowing to support business, instead today we want to cut that chicken that carries the golden eggs. And I'm asking you very much before you do that, though, to point out that today we need to think about having constant revenue coming into the budget, because the main thing is that there's money coming into the budget, not the main thing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u134	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Thorochti Bogdan Grigorovich, is invited to attend. Don't you insist? Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians, in the context of the need for business support in Ukraine during a quarantine and post-carrantine period, in the context of the economic downturn in Ukraine, the government is proposing to increase tax pressure on business and is also under the impression of destroying schemes. The need for the preparation and submission of this alternative bill by the People's Deputies of the "European Solidarity" faction is explained by the need to ensure stability and stimulate economic growth in Ukraine without increasing tax burden. The bill therefore proposes, from January 1, 2022, to impose a tax on the capital in exchange for income tax, from January 2, 22, to introduce a three-year moratorium on tax and collection rates, to replace the base and/or objects of taxation, which results in an increase in the amount of taxes and/or the congregation. To establish that a moratorium on the conduct of documentary and factual checks on taxpayers cannot be reduced by the Cabinet of Ministers during the quarantine period, to establish, without exception, a ban on State control of planned measures and the exercise of State oversight and so forth. There are other standards that we have proposed that will have a positive impact on business and the lives of people in Ukraine. According to the world's leading and Ukrainian economists in the second half of the 21st year and the 22nd year, the trends in economic relations in the world will have the most favourable conditions to carry out enabling reforms and will benefit all countries except Ukraine. So without increasing the burden on business, an alternative, economically sound approach, we will be able to ensure overall recovery and competitiveness of Ukraine's economy, as well as to ensure that corruption risks have a positive impact on business conditions. I'm very much asking you to support an alternative and quite another philosophy draft law. It's for business. For economic development in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u136	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to the author of the alternative draft law to Danuci Alexandr Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u137	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I have a nice performance that my team wrote to me. It's about excise. And about VAT. And also about the land. Before that, however, my city chief, Andri Pavlovich Rajkovic, called me. And he said a simple thing. He's been like that ever since. He just said if you vote for 5,600, I won't let you into town. And I want to tell you that we have, first of all, and I'm talking to the Mayors, to think that this bill is against local communities. And whoever votes for it votes against the local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u138	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Daniel Alexander Gettmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u139	See how much more meaningful and intense the discussion of this bill is than the previous one. Because it's about money, it's about the real interests of those with whom we're fighting this package of bills. The 5600 bill is about equality of taxation, about the abolition of preferences and benefits, about the removal of tax gaps in tax legislation, which allow today to avoid taxation of big business and not pay taxes to doctors, not to pay taxes to retirees, not to pay taxes on roads and on the functions that the state should perform. Do not pay taxes in a war - torn country immorally, even more immorally through the laws of the benefits and preferences that we plan to abolish by this tax. We're finally planning to index taxes, excise taxes and other taxes by 5 percent of inflation. We propose to increase three times the ecological tax, which is 45 times less than in Spain, 150 times less than in France, 65 times less than in Portugal. So we're going to increase the rent on ore. In a fine market environment today, they receive profits and should count the cost to the state. We're canceling the excise duty on green tariffs. We cancel the indexation, the moratorium on land value index to pay land taxes to local communities. We adopt the law that ensures equality of taxation. And I'm asking you to back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this law? Please sign up: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u141	Ivanov Vladimir Ilich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u142	Getmantsev, Daniel Getmantsev. Gettmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u143	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u144	Thank you. Thank you for your word. I want to continue with the myths that are specially designed around this bill and that are accompanying its entire history. Myths from pseudo-experts in social media. Myths of Opposition. Myths from those who didn't even read the bill. Let's do the points. Now you're going to hear some of them from the stand from the opposition. For example, when it comes to automatic write-offs, such as the taxpayer’s tax expense. This standard exists today in the codex. If the debtor or taxpayer has declared the debt on his own, he has not paid it within 70 days, and the tax may be written off without trial. Why the court in this case? And the norm is working now. We're just suggesting we cut the threshold. And this is about other myths, and I just gave an example. At the same time, there are some questions before the bill. I have some questions and some questions for my colleagues. And I am convinced that we are working on these issues in the second reading, especially with regard to the time-limits for the introduction of tax increases and the points that relate to tax elements that cannot be changed in accordance with Article 4 of the Code of Taxation during the financial year. The committee is faced with a considerable, big task, a considerable work that we promise to do in dignity and discuss all of the issues at stake. At the same time, on the first reading today, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u145	The staff of Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u146	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. When we all talk about raising social standards and how much we all know we need to raise pensions, pay, increase our country's defence capacity, build roads, schools, clubs, stadiums. So we have two choices. First option. Continue to sit on the needle of the IMF and all the organizations that lend us money and are obliged to raise tariffs, taxes, and the obligation to raise our retirement age. And the second option. Become a civilized state and start paying taxes. To get out of the shadow of a sector that has been sitting there for decades without paying taxes. Is this law completely normal when it comes to first reading? No, it's not. Should we do what is proposed in this law? Yes. So our Party for the Future faction will vote in favour of this law in the first reading. There's a working group in Parliament where we also give our representatives in all directions: agricultural, building, tax, legal, and we're going to work on the changes to the second reading. The country has to pay taxes, and teachers, doctors, and infrastructure are expected to live on these taxes. That's why we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u147	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u148	Please pass Alexia to the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u149	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u150	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, we finally understand our level of authority, because it has led us to make simple decisions one more time. What can you do to stop the war? Just stop shooting. How do I stop COVID? Just don't vaccinate or test. Now it's, how do we raise the economy and come into the budget? A very simple recipe, if you want to spend less on a cow and more on it, you have to feed it less and feed it more -- that's what we're offered today. Let's destroy the whole business as such, let's enter, we're told, it's against the oligarchs. I'm reporting who these oligarchs are going to hit this law on are all farmers. Today is the first day of the so-called land market you've introduced, the Latin Funding Market. You said we'd be supporting farmers in a year, so we'll help everyone. What? You didn't give anything, and in a year you raise taxes for farmers, it's in this law. You raise wages for people who grow something in their small, dotted area and go to market with it, you raise their taxes. People who want to buy housing because not everyone has villas in Concha-Zasp, like Zelensky, who promised not to take it, you raise their taxes. You're destroying the state's investment climate, green energy, clean energy, and you say excise. What is Excise? This circumcision is from Latin. You circumcise everything, you circumcise and you kill the investment climate, because no one comes to a country that lies, that says one thing, and does another completely, you destroy a step by step of the state. I can't understand why you're doing this. I only have one answer, you want to make a profit out of it, because you want the taxpayer to give the authority to destroy any businessman, that's your policy and that's what you're servants of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u151	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u152	Please give Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u153	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u154	Galina Vasilchenko, 118 constituency, Lviv. Dear colleagues, why shouldn't we vote in favour of this bill if it's short? It significantly increases the pressure on business, as tax rights increase, and fines increase. And even if your tax return wrongly owes you, you are an entrepreneur, you will not be able to go abroad. The other one. They're taking money from the community -- 2.9 billion. So the excise on tobacco sales is no longer going to the community. This law is really against the community. Third. Taxes are on the rise. For example, if a person wants to sell his property and now this tax is 5 percent VAT, you will pay 18 percent. This will, of course, have a major impact on real estate prices. Four. A major complication of life for small middle - aged farmers. From one hectare, whether you work or not, you will have to pay at least 1.5 dollars for one hectare of agricultural land. Instead of stimulating the economy, we are offered a bill that only harms the economy and looks into the pockets of not only business, but also extracts money from every Ukrainian. Instead of introducing standards that will stimulate the economy, create jobs, the authorities, unfortunately, are going to do even worse and worse for our business. There were seven alternate bills on the committee, and I suggested: let's do a work-up, taking into account all the key norms that many of the national deputies of the different factions insist on, unfortunately, that was ignored. So my appeal to you, dear fellows, let's send for further work, make a normal bill that will be acceptable, not this terrible, absolutely not in the interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u155	All those who wish to speak? Nicolanca, after that, let's go to the vote. Nicolanca is a motive. Kucher, I can see that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u156	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. Colleagues, there's been a lot of talk, and although some people have been complaining that this is a fabrication of opposition, but I'm not emotionally, I'm talking about the facts, this bill actually applies to everyone, yes, in some alternative versions, you could make this bill affect only big business or business that gains revenue. The same bill in the sense that it's made, it's going to affect every Ukrainian, because, first of all, it gives completely new, difficult opportunities to tax them, clearly, as it has abused before, and continues to abuse now. On the other hand, this bill will touch all those who live on earth, who have a small patch that they received without taxes, up to two acres [2 ha]. Now that's going down. This will affect anyone who wants to buy a new car because you are taxed with extra taxes, purchases, or sells housing. This bill is going to cause a great deal of trouble for medium-sized businesses. All business associations are against you and make decisions for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u157	Thank you. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u158	Dear colleagues! Law 5600 is very raw, extremely raw. The principle is very simple: taxes are going to increase, fiscal powers are going to increase, the adversarials are going to increase, and corruption is going to increase. I don’t know how to explain to the heads of the united communities that they won’t pay any more tobacco taxes. It's every community of two-and-a-half million. How can it be explained that where there are birds, they will no longer pay the fixed tax of the fourth group but will pay the income tax? It's taking money from them again. How can we explain that many of the taxes previously paid are now not going to be paid? And all these tax innovations are quite questionable. That's why I think you're all promising to take it all into account today. Consider, do not exchange, for this deception can then end badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m1.u159	All those who wish to speak? Invite the national deputies to the hall. While colleagues are meeting, I'll also say a few words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this law is now causing much discussion in the hall. In my opinion, the committee did not work with him, to put it mildly. [[Applause]] To put it mildly. Because there's a big debate at the OTG level, a big debate at the level of business and at the level of parliament. I'm calling on the committee of profile, preparing for second reading to take into account the position of both the business and the local authorities and my colleagues in order not to get into trouble during the consensus, if this bill, when this bill gets to the second reading. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the balance of budgetary revenues (Registration No. 5600). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:25:00]] For 264 For 265. Show the faction. 264, I'm sorry. Let's see the factions. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
