ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! I'm happy to welcome you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the "for" button, the first left-hand button, or the green button, to whom it's convenient. Please register. [[10:04:38]] There are 146 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is Zinkevich Jana Vadimivna's birthday. I wish my health, my success, my best! [[Applause]] The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about the state of the rule of law and organization for the introduction of the land market in Ukraine. But there were two applications for a break with a replacement for the performance. Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna and IFO Equal Opportunities. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I can be joined by all those national MPs who respect women of the military. Please join us, dear colleagues. So we just celebrated the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine. Our Basic Law is primarily about human rights, dignity, respect and equality between women and men. Article 24 of the Constitution clearly speaks of the equal rights and opportunities of men and women. We respect each other, and we have talked a lot about respect for the army. And we know and understand that in the Armed Forces, they should respect women of the military. We've been going to ensure the equal rights and opportunities of women in the military for a very long time. Thanks to our efforts, many absurd restrictions have been lifted on women's military service to gain military education. Today, there are over 31 thousand women in the Armed Forces, over 4,100 of whom are officers. More than 13.5,000 women were enrolled in the fighting. Compared with 2014, women in the military were struck. And you know how much women have been inspired by these changes to go and serve in our armed forces. And how can this simple idea of inspiration be burned? It's a military parade to the 30th anniversary of our independence, where women of the military are supposed to be marching to the polls. This violent thrash, I'm sorry, we saw it on the Ministry of Defense's website. Mr. Secretary of Defense, are you so close to our army to all NATO standards, to Alliance standards? Consider this our open call to conduct a service investigation and to report to the community who has made such a decision, to report on how much money has been spent on buying this shoe from our taxes, and who bears the material responsibility for it. Publicly apologize for the humiliation of women in front of their army and veterans, who defend and continue to defend the independence and sovereignty of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, please join us, and join us, Mrs. Julia, Mrs. Marina, Mrs. Olga. The media, too, would you please not let it pass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u3	See if you can sum it up very briefly. Tell me, does the blood on the battlefield differ in sex by color? Do the tears of women and men over slain brothers differ in some way from that of taste? So why are women being turned into dolls, into some carnival dolls that should somehow entertain the crowd? Well, this has got to stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u4	The green concept of green doesn't have like the Supreme Commander, which is NATO standards and criteria. It's not the parade outfits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Another statement was made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Who's speaking? Sophia Fedina. Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I appeal to you as full representatives of the Ukrainian people, who have chosen for themselves the fundamental values of the human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Among these rights is the right to non-discrimination on all grounds. Today, I would like to point out that in Ukraine, representatives of the current government allow themselves to be discriminated against by the color of the skin, by the racial sign. I want to draw attention to the statement made by journalist Caroline Ashion, who told the story of how she wasn't taken to work on "1+1," and specifically by Mr. Alexander Tkachenko, who is today the minister of culture, because she has a different color of skin. And when she recently approached him the other day and noticed that, as it was supposed to be, there was essentially a confirmation of this position. It seems to me that, after such a scandal, the minister would have to volunteer his powers, or else we can say that we have sexists and racists in the government, which is unacceptable to the democratic state. Imagine that one of you will not be employed in the color of your skin. Imagine that someone will not be allowed to go to public places because of the length of his arm or leg. The issue of language discrimination is generally super common in the Ukrainian State with regard to those who speak the English language. So, dear fellows, let us prove that we are not a parliament in which sexism and racism are tolerated. Let us prove that we are a state in which fundamental human rights are respected, and that we are a nation that desires a just, equal attitude towards all people, regardless of their physical or other characteristics. Because every person has the right to respect, to honor, to dignity, and no minister, particularly the Green government, has the right to violate these fundamental rights. We support Caroline Ashion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u7	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the hour of questions to the government. Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine Roman Mikolayovich Leschenko is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In accordance with the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the land market, and in accordance with the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on 25 May 2021, the issue of land reform was established by a working group of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of the Interior, the State Department of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Office of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The working group has appropriately identified the road map for land reform and has agreed on a list of legal and regulatory acts that are crucial to the implementation of land reform in Ukraine. In order to implement the Act of 31 March 2020 amending the Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of agricultural land, the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers have been adopted, namely the decree of 31 March 2020, which provides for amendments to Decree No. 483, No. 15, which states that the State Department of Ukraine may apply to the court for the confiscation of the land of agricultural destination in the event of a violation of a specific requirement for the border area of such land which may be owned by one person, as well as in cases where the owner of the land is obliged to alienate it within a certain period of time, but the land area has not been alienated. A separate decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted on June 16, 2021, approving the procedure for verifying the conformity of the purchaser or owner of the agricultural area with the requirements laid down in article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. This is a verification that identifies the person who acquires the land of agricultural destination, the establishment of the final beneficiary of the legal person, the verification of the application of special economic and other restrictive measures (sensions) in accordance with Ukraine’s Pro Sanctions Act, the verification of the buyer’s relation to the list of persons involved in the conduct of terrorist activities, the established order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; and the determination of the total area of agricultural assignments owned by the acquirer. According to the manufacturer’s appropriate verification, the notary is obliged to draw up a protocol that provides information on whether or not the requirements of the Ukrainian Code of Land are met and the decision taken on the basis of such a test. The conformity of the owner of the agricultural area with the requirements set out in article 130 of the Ukrainian Land Code is checked by the authority responsible for monitoring the use and protection of land. And in the event that the relevant infringements are detected, the designated authority applies to the court for confiscation of the relevant land. The verification is carried out using, among other things, the State Register of Real Estate Rights, the State Land cadastre, the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. Individually for the implementation of the relevant law, Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of June 23, 2021 No663 on the amendment of certain acts of the Cabinet of Ministers providing: the procedure for the conduct of the State Register of Real Estate Rights with appropriate changes, the procedure for the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, the order for the Ministry of Justice to exercise control over activities in the field of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, and the State registration of legal persons. The corresponding changes to Order 1141 and Order 1127 provide for the representation in these normative documents of the features of the state registration of property rights in land areas. In particular, the procedural issues of the State registration of the predominant land purchase right, the prohibition on the transfer of land emphyteurs to and from the lease and termination of such a ban, the purpose of the owner of the land plot for the sale of the land, land lease rights, the right to use a foreign land for agricultural purposes, namely emfitevsis; whether the use of a foreign land to forget, namely, superficies acquired as a result of the exclusion of such a right by the user in cases provided for by legislation and acquired on the basis of a court decision as a result of compulsory recourse (acquiring) such a right of use, or as a result of an inheritance of information on the limitation of the goods and other related information in the State Register of Unauthority, will not be exercised. The changes have also been made to Order No. 990, which is aimed at the practical implementation of the Ministry of Justice’s control powers in the field of state registration of real estate and businesses. Order of the Ministry of Justice dated June 30, 2021, "On the Approval of Changes to the Order of Notarial Action by the Notaries of Ukraine" registered by the Ministry of Justice on June 30, 21st (No. 866/36488). The order is enforceable, and all necessary normative acts to open the perimeter are provided. Separately for the implementation of the Law of 17 June 2020 amending the Land Code and other legislation on land use planning, the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 21 April 21 amending certain legislative acts became effective on 24th. Takes effect on July 24, 21st. It implements the mechanism for passing materials to the State Documentation Fund by establishing a deadline for their transmission to developers, shortening the deadlines for requests for information from the State Documentation Fund, introducing the submission of materials from the State Fund for Land Administration Documentation to interested individuals and legal persons in the order set out in the Public Information Act. Individually adopted by the Government of the Order of 2 June 21 on the Approval of the Classification of Restrictions on Land Use, established by the Integrated Spatial Development Plan of the Territorial Communities, the General Plan of the Human Settlement, the Detailed Plan of the Territory. On June 22nd, the Government's draft Cabinet of Ministers regulation on order for the development, updating and approval of urban documentation was addressed. In addition, conciliation procedures are now under way in accordance with the regulatory requirements for the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance of 25 May 2011 on the conduct of an expert study on urban documentation projects. In addition, a draft Cabinet of Ministers regulation on amending certain legislative acts is now in line with the classification of the types of targeted assignments of land, the types of functional assignment and the relationship between them and the rules for their application. In addition, on April 28th, "On Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code and Other Legislative Acts on Improving the Management and Deregulation System in Land Relations", draft regulations are being drafted, which are currently in the process of cohesive procedures, namely the procedure for the approval of land conservation. A reconciled position with the Ministry of Environment in part of the degraded lands that need proper conservation for the purpose of their acquisition, reforestation, re-establishment, as a large number of lands need special protection in Ukraine. In addition, a separate draft of the Decree on Recognition is being prepared that some decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers that today do not correspond to the legislation in force have become invalid. In addition, the Act of 18 May 2021 on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on land sales and the acquisition of rights of use through electronic auctions has been drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers on certain issues of the preparation and conduct of land trades for the sale of land for the acquisition of the right to use them (the lease, superficies, emfitevsis), which will be addressed in the shortest possible time to the interested executive authorities in accordance with the regulatory requirements. This law was signed by the President of Ukraine a week ago, and this decision is decisive in terms of providing electronic transparent auctions. We would like to explain to the national deputies that the decree provides for the approval of the requirements for the preparation of land trades for an appropriate lease, the acquisition of land that will regulate, inter alia, the technical requirements for the preparation of land trades in the form of electronic auctions using the ProZorro electronic trading system. In addition, establish and publish its results, ensure: the size, order and duration of payment of the corresponding payments; the return of registration guarantee contributions from participants and the remuneration paid by the winner of the land trades to the operator of the electronic site; the reimbursement of the costs incurred in preparing the lot for sale at the land trade; the order and time of payment of the land use; the order in which the majority of the land purchase rights are exercised; and the technical requirements for re-selling, the order of operation and administration of the electronic trading system. This is part of the regulatory framework. With regard to the organizational issue of agricultural land circulation. Ladies and gentlemen, since July 1st, 21st, the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Assignment has become applicable accordingly. In Ukraine, a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land has been cancelled. According to the State Register of Real Estate Rights, on July 1st, sales contracts registered ownership rights on land of agricultural destination in the range of 61 contracts. Of these, only three agreements were made. So we've had three submarine land agreements all over the country. At the same time, 40 land plots were alienated, which were not subject to the moratorium, because they were in the title "private agriculture". This statistics are no different from statistics from time to moratorium. Land monitoring data can be found on the land.gov.ua website . Monitoring data show that, despite the existence of a moratorium in Ukraine, individuals and legal persons have acquired more than 100 hectares of property in the thousands of subjects in Ukraine. In fact, by adopting the law, from July 1st we restricted the civil traffic of agricultural land, which was in circulation, including legal persons. In fact, this fact shows that there was a shadow market in Ukraine where legal persons freely bought land in the thousands of hectares. Legal persons who have accumulated tens of thousands of hectares, we have carefully traced through the State Register of Real Estate Rights and the State Land cadastre, which on the last day of the launch of the land market went through tens of other agreements between legal persons who conducted sales transactions. In doing so, we testify to the fact that there was actually a market in Ukraine that was completely unregulated. In view of these circumstances, on July 1st of the Parliament’s legislation, the Land Monitoring Portal began its work on the official site of the State Department, which publishes data on the area of land transferred to use, prices, and land area acquired by one entity. Any person can access the official website with information on the price and cost of land, property rights and land use payments. The Government has ensured the adoption of all necessary regulations and regulations necessary for the implementation of the Law on the Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Purpose. The procedure for verifying the conformity of the acquirer or owner of the agricultural assignment area corresponds to the requirements approved by the Ukrainian Code of Land, article 130. All necessary organizational arrangements are provided for notaries to verify data in the State Register of Goods Rights and the State Land Cadastre in part of the limits of up to 100 hectares. The software works on a state-of-the-art basis. Yesterday, 789 notaries were connected to the State Cadastre Center for the exchange of relevant information. A large-scale information campaign, including the Notary Chamber, with the participation of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, is being launched for the operational involvement of all interested entities. All desirous notaries, who are key subjects in the circle of agricultural land, receive adequate access to the strictest possible terms. It was important for us, in the light of these circumstances, to ensure the exchange of data between the State Land cadastre and the State Register of Real Estate Rights. It is a shame to talk about it, but there was no automated data exchange system in Ukraine prior to the adoption of the relevant laws. This led to widespread abuse in Ukraine as part of free land privatization when some citizens had the opportunity to exercise the right of free privatization twice, five times or more, while the system did not signal these problems because there was no automatic exchange. In addition, before the adoption of the relevant laws, the State did not actually control the circulation of nearly 5 million hectares of OSH land, which were non-submersible, which was free circulation, which allowed legal persons, including the founders, the end-beneficiaries, to carry out such operations. I would like to inform the National Deputies that, on the basis of the appropriate regulatory framework provided by Parliament by representatives of five factions in Parliament and by deputies, we have a legal and factual opportunity to publish relevant data on the final beneficiaries of landowners in Ukraine. We're going to provide this in a step-by-step way. Let us start with legal persons who have hundreds and thousands of hectares on balance, separately making public individuals, connected networks, who have a group of connected persons, even when such persons, especially in the last six months, have accelerated in the issue of land alienation to third parties. I want to explain that in a register of property rights, even if you're doing triple sales, even if you're doing away with a so-called conscientious buyer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the interview. Will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up. The word is given to the National MP of Sofia Romanovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u10	Please give the floor to my colleague Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u11	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u12	Minister, please tell me how you feel about racism and sexism that thrives in your government. I hope that you will not urge farmers to dress violently in the field, as the Minister of Defense has suggested for the parade by his command to the military. I have a question: are we in NATO and the EU because of the promo "sow" and the Soviets, or are we still offering parade kits instead of special women's underwear for military personnel every day? We don't take into account actual vests that take into account the characteristics of the female figure, for combat action, but we offer to dress up in front of the Supreme Commander in the selection. When will this order be lifted by the Secretary of Defense? And when will changes be made regarding the number of participants in the parade, their uniforms, their clothes, and their shoes? And the question is, who in the government are you in general responsible for the policy of equality between men and women? And what has this man done to stop this disgrace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u13	I apologize, but the issue is not land reform. I can say my own position. I respect all representatives of Parliament. I respect the European Convention of Rights and Freedoms. And I think that we have equality, democracy and the social value of every citizen is the most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u14	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give the floor to the distinguished national deputy Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u16	Please, Yuri Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the previous meeting of a government that, unfortunately, you did not participate in the Supreme Council. Mr. Prime Minister, in order to carry out your assignment in these minutes, there is a massive reduction in the number of district workers in children's affairs. According to your previous assignments, children’s services have been eliminated at the district level. Children’s services have not been created in the united territorial communities. The national social service, which is created only by a government decision, is unfortunately unable to exercise authority to protect children because it does not have legal rights, but can actually commit crimes, both against children, adoptive parents and civil servants. You've got a whole series of references from the profile committee, the TSC about the need to create a State Child Protection Service. Sadly, though, they are ignored. Mr. Prime Minister, you can personally tell us why you are violating children's rights today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, before they begin to answer, I'd like to remind you how the day of questions to the government is formed, "the hour of the government." There's a reporter, so I'd like to ask the reporter a question. Because the second part is going to be about the whole government. So first, I invite the reporter to answer. If. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Prime Minister, will you answer now or later? Thank you. Next, I give the floor to national deputy Kucher Mikoli Ivanovich, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u19	Roman Mikolaiovich, good afternoon! Two questions to you today. First. How is the government going to deal with shadowy land use, and primarily with the understatement of the VAT rate when the rent is paid to private individuals? And the second question. Bill 5600 was adopted in the first reading yesterday, where for the first time in the history of Ukraine, one branch of agriculture was pulled out of a special tax collection. How much will you support us in this, we have another idea of how to increase the pay, but at the same time not to pull one branch out of agriculture? Because yesterday we wanted to take away the birds, tomorrow it'll be oil, the day after tomorrow it'll be pork. And so we're going to tear up all the agriculture. Do you agree to work with us in exchange for the very idea of increasing taxes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u20	On the first question. According to an audit conducted jointly with the Ukrainian State Tax Service and the Ukrainian State Land cadastre, more than 8 million hectares of agricultural land in Ukraine are under shadow treatment. This means that the respective lands do not have proper taxes on the local budget. We cannot talk about capable communities if we have such a shadowy circle of land. Moreover, this has a profound effect on the shadowing of the grain. The position of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is for equal taxation in land taxes. We support the initiative to introduce a minimum tax obligation with appropriate childhood, we support a position: childization through a fixed VAT rate of 14 percent. And we believe that the relevant standards should be adopted, taking into account the opinion of the national MPs and the relevant professional associations and communities. Our ambition is to pay the right tax by the end of the year and to ensure that local budgets are filled with real costs. The second is about taxation of individual sectors. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy shares the position of equality of taxation in all areas of the national economy. Between the first and second readings, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, together with the relevant professional associations, the Committee on Tax Policy will work on the relevant bill, based on the conditions of equality of taxation, the provision of appropriate funds, and the implementation of the development of the national agricultural sector in the field of animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u21	The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Well, ministers have political figures, so they have to answer all the questions that are being answered. Minister, do you know that, according to recent polls, 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens oppose the opening of the land market? Do you know that the Law on the Earth’s Market is under review in the Constitutional Court? And do you not find it appropriate to await the Constitutional Court’s decision on this matter? What measures has the Ministry of Profiles taken to prevent the redemption of the valueless land of Ukrainian citizens? Because we know that the normative valuation of the value of the land has been carried out for a long time, and in fact it does not correspond to the real value of the land. Is it appropriate to open the market for land during quarantine and economic weakening not only in Ukraine but in most developed countries? And in fact, are there plans in the government to create state banks and to give low-cost funds to our citizens, Ukrainian peasants and farmers for the purchase and rental of land, and to feed themselves and their families, and local budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u23	I ask the chairman to add some time, since five questions have been asked. Question one. The corresponding social surveys are not representative, since the sample averages 2-3 thousand people, most of whom are representatives of the very large cities, residents of rural areas, owners of land rations do not include them in appropriate surveys. If we do a survey of 7 million Ukrainians, if they want to own, use and manage the land, more than 90 percent say yes. The other one. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics urges all Ukrainian citizens not to rush into making appropriate decisions on land management. In addition, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy stresses that Ukrainian land is priceless, its value will increase at least 7-10 percent annually, as capitalization and circulation ensure competition. In addition, we have set at the level of the state a monetary policy assessment, which is on average 28,000 dollars in Ukraine. We ensure the proper will of individuals to agree on price formation. However, we believe that today, Ukrainian citizens should bring their records in order, check their land registers, ensure proper registration. And the cost of Ukrainian land will increase. Poland reformed 15 years ago, and today the Polish land, which is much worse by classification criteria, costs 10 times more. For us there is no goal of selling land; for us there is a goal of making order in land relations, because in Ukraine over the past year more than a million hectares of OSH of non-maritoral form have been sold, alienated through the state register.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u24	How much time is left? Vasilyev Igor Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u25	Congratulations, Mr. Minister. Please tell me the next two questions. First. You made it clear that three land-sale operations that were in the moratorium took place yesterday. What's the cost of buying a sale per hectare? How much is expected to increase the value of this land, for example, in the future of two years? In order for people to know whether they should sell this land at all. The second question. We all know that the Holdgeokadastr has transferred the land to communities, and communities are in charge right now. But there's a lot of leases that are concluded below 3 percent, below 4 percent, if the market is now, let's say, 12. Did you plan to settle this very issue in order for communities to receive the fair cost of renting the land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u26	On the first question. We came out of 61 agricultural land areas, and our analysis confirms that the cost of about 50,000 dollars per hectare. The other one. As for the cost of increasing agricultural land, we estimate that growth will be around 7-10 percent annually, because Ukrainian land is undervalued, but there are market factors that affect price increases, namely record growth in world markets in agricultural production. Accordingly, we have the conviction that the price will continue to rise. However, this does not mean that Ukrainian citizens should hurry to manage their property, since we have a sincere belief that the land is the best bank deposit that will continue to rise in price, will generate additional income from their rent, since only in the last year does the country's rent increase by 16 percent and continue to increase. With respect to Cabal contracts, signed by 49 percent under one-and-a-half percent of the standard rate. There are a number of normative measures that we plan to regulate the rent. In addition, land monitoring measures established by the laws on deregulation provide for systematic analysis of the administration of land by communities and the corresponding lease agreements that we will publish in every community. To do that, we're going to now make the right decision on land electronic auctions, and this data is going to be publicly available. Ukrainian citizens will be able to monitor and see rents of all the rights and rents in such lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u27	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u28	Galina Vasilchenko, Lvivščina Mr. Minister, as of today, most communities do not have the only convenient electronic database on existing communal land areas that prevents them from managing them effectively. My question concerns the following. The Minagropolitics site notes that a single large-scale geoportal of open data is to be created. When is it scheduled to be discovered? What are the functionalities actually going to be for communities? And also the question of what should have been passed on from abroad to communities over the past six months. Who is coordinating this process? Because, according to the report, not all the communities are actually transferred, at some point they're blocked. So who coordinates when this process is completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u29	First. Let's start with the second question. To implement the President’s decree of October 15, 2020, in manual mode, the State Department handed over over over 2.3 million acres [2.3 million ha] of land. The Law on Land Decentralisation was signed by the President at the end of May of this year. By law, all lands outside the population are owned by communities. In fact, this law determines the rulership, use, and authority of the communities, but it is a responsible arrangement. The language goes that any alienation by communities of land is carried out by two-thirds of a vote from the Council's quantitative composition, with the corresponding publication of all the data on the relevant sites. Separately from the open data geoportal. Site nsdi.gov.ua – the national geoportal of geospatial data. Today, more than 90 communities are connected to the site, which in real time fill data on land, water, forest resources, construction data, and electricity networks. And all communities we call for access to an appropriate resource that is free of charge, which contains more than 500 geodata sets and is being filled very actively. We encourage communities to now conduct appropriate inventory, conduct spatial planning and integrate into the appropriate system. For its part, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy will act as a coordinating function to ensure that data is filled. And now we've started signing the corresponding memorandums with each area, especially in the Kyiv region, we signed two days ago. The following week Ternopilska, the Plain region, signs the corresponding memorandums on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u30	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u31	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Mr. Secretary, you've told us everything, but you haven't told us about a single Ukrainian or Ukrainian man who wants to buy land today. Where do they get the money? What do you want them to do? Where does this one get a 3-acre pie? You have to take $6,000 or $7,000. What Is Happening to Banks? What does your policy do to inform you about the involvement of single farms that produce family farm products in order to pay their taxes? This is who the buyer of this land is. That's the first one. And the second is a question from Shahov. Riding horses, cutting out horses, and rioting. When are you going to put the order in there when you get back to MinAPK and get it in order? This is a question from Sergei Shahov, Luhanščina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u32	Second question. In accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers regulation. Appropriately, the central executive authorities with the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food are now holding appropriate consultations on the distribution of functions right in the agricultural sector. In the near future, these consultations will be concluded in the section on central executive authorities and state-owned enterprises needed to ensure the implementation of agrarian policy and the corresponding food function. That's a second question. As for the first question. Vadim Evgenovich is certainly today a number of legislative acts that require appropriate adoption. First of all, Law 3205 on the Partial Loan Guarantee Fund for Small Farmers up to 500 hectares [500 ha]. We need this law in order to allow for a simplified procedure to involve the appropriate small producers in lending. Especially with respect to the 5-7-9 program. Over 25 billion dollars were given to agrarians to refinance and borrow. We plan to expand the software and simplify access to the documentation part for small and medium-sized producers. Third. State support for the year 2021 provides 1.2 billion dollars to compensate for the loan. Four. The government has conducted appropriate consultations on the extension of State support for 2022 to at least 1 percent of the country’s GDP. In order to reach the state support level of at least 10 billion dollars to provide affordable funding for small and medium-sized producers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for questions from Ukraine’s national deputies. Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u35	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u36	My question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is to withdraw Ukraine's signature under a joint statement on the human rights situation in the Chinese province of Xinjiang regarding the genocide of the Uighur people. Ukraine withdrew its signature and Associated Press reported that it was at the request of an official China. At the same time, most Asian media are presenting the news so that official Beijing welcomes Ukraine’s withdrawal of the signature under the application, which is attention! – signed more than 40 countries, including the European Union, the United States, as Ukraine's strategic partner. But what is more, this is seen as evidence of Ukraine’s refusal to take a strategic course to the European Union. This is a violent blow to Ukraine's geopolitical interests. Please comment on this, Mr. Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. First, nothing can collapse or undermine the course for Ukraine's European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Second, Ukraine has consistently advocated human rights and human rights protection throughout the world. As far as the matter is concerned, we are in consultation with both our Western partners and the People's Republic of China. And when these consultations are completed, I'd be happy to give you an official position on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u38	Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u39	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Minister of Health. Dear Victor Kirilovich, for 20 years, Ukraine has consistently received international charitable assistance, both in the form of educational services and internships in the world’s best clinics and in the form of costly medical technology, which lacks a large number of medical facilities. In June last year, for the promotion of the Children’s Medical Care Foundation from the Republic of Poland, they received medical technology that was formed, blurred and transferred to the balance sheet of the state-owned enterprise MOH Food Supply. A year later, this medicine remained in storage and was not transferred to prominent medical facilities. Question-examination. During the year, is it not possible to transfer property between institutions in the field of the administration of one government? And why is the medical technician involved in dust in the warehouse, while the MOH is looking for money to acquire vital equipment? Please give a clear answer and take personal control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u40	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich. Excuse me, Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. This issue is already under the personal control of the minister of health, and for 10 days the equipment will be delivered to the district health departments for further distribution to health facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u42	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u43	Please hand over Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u44	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u45	Mr. Prime Minister, good afternoon. My address to you. School principals, they give me mass appeals, they're being fined. A fine of 1,700 dollars to be paid by the school principal is fined for fire safety. First, no one has dealt with this issue for many years, and. They make directors of something other than the founders referred to in article 37 of the Education Act. Second, the directors don't have that kind of money and they go to the heads of OTG. My request, yesterday it was supported by 40 deputies, to create a targeted programme of co-financing specifically for fire safety: 30 from the government, 70 from local communities. Because it's not just about security and fines that don't solve anything, it's about the safety of our children. And the incident in Odessa and in the camp and in college showed that it wasn't a game with a fire. And I'm asking you very much, the target program can solve this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u46	Thank you for your question, thank you for your advice. I absolutely support the fact that fire safety. And unfortunately, we already have a history, and historical examples show that you can't joke about it. But for a deeper answer, I would like to convey the word to Mr. Scarlett, Minister of Education. Sergei Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u47	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, Reverend Natala Romanovna. That is indeed a valid question. The Ministry is currently filing a special program for the state budget. As far as percent of you are concerned, you are willing to talk to, meet, and discuss these issues. 30 times 70 or so could be the ratio. I'll be happy to meet you next week for more detailed processing. But in higher education institutions, there is already a part of the subsidies that will be directed primarily to cover fire safety measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u48	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u50	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. My first question is to the Minister of Justice. You've done very well with the repair of the cameras, which I welcome. I have a question for you: can you prepare a cell in pink and blue for Jermak and Zelensky? How soon can this be done? I'm even willing to pay for the repairs. And I have a second question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. What are you going to do with the minister of culture, Tuckenko, who has been accused of racism? Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking you a second question. Thank you. I'm waiting for the answer to both questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u51	Thank you for asking, Mr. People's Deputy. Human rights are a priority for the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, and ensuring proper European standards of conduct and maintenance of prisoners and convicts is one of the key tasks facing the relevant departments of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. We're actually providing repairs to investigators as a result of the revenues and costs financed in the state budget, although unfortunately the corresponding amount of funding is small and the capital cost of the entire criminal justice system is only 11 million dollars, which is not enough to even perform the current repairs, so the repairs in the insulators are carried out on account of their own revenues, especially on the basis of income from paid cells in the insulators. If you really want to fund the ongoing repairs in the cells of the insulators, a separate cell, each insulator, an open special account, and a special fund, at the expense of expenses not provided for in the relevant schedule and also in the national budget of Ukraine. Sponsorship from charities, public organizations, and individuals is always acceptable. We will be happy to finance such a critical need in our country, given that we have not only a requirement of conscience or Ukrainian legislation, but also a number of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights that require us to ensure the proper level of detention of persons in detention centres and institutions for the execution of sentences. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u52	Time's up. Two minutes to respond. I think you'll have some more. Litvinenko Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u53	I'd like to give you my word on the Black Sea Artema.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u54	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u55	I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Denise Anatoliyovich, I'd like to ask the entire agrarian committee representing the interests of the agricultural sector of Ukraine. Today, that's 18 percent of GDP. I'd like to point out that it's not just the land or the question of it, it's also food, it's pesticides, it's seeding material. When we chose the new headmaster, the economy minister, you promised an agrarian committee that the term "farm farming" would disappear and the Ministry of Agrarian Politics would pass through all the central executive authorities within 30 days. Please tell me, when will the State Service first come through, where are most of the powers assigned to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy? It's been more than 30 days, I'll tell you how it went. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I actually think it's a question that ministers need to talk to the committee. For the time being, the issue is in the area of discussion between the two ministries regarding the correct redistribution of liabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u57	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u58	Please give my word to Paul Susch. Paul Suško, give the word, Suška.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u59	Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u60	Denise Anatolyovich, congratulations! Thank you for finally changing the ruling, and you've changed the strategy of deinstitutionalization. But I still have a few questions for you. How long will children with disabilities and special educational needs be abused? When it's finally changed, this disgraceful Order 586 that we've been talking about for a year? We've already changed. You've come to power to change the system, to make people's lives better. The government has already been changed. When will these middle - class officials change, who are still sabotaging and demeaning children with disabilities? Another question. Why is a special school not accepted? Why is the government against creation, creating 10 and 12 classes in them? Where are children with disabilities, children with special educational needs, in your opinion? Why do you deprive them of their rights? Thank you. Please answer two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u61	Thank you for your questions. You see, the government is making every effort to put order in these areas. Thank you for your support, for your cooperation personally and on the part of the committee of profile. For a thorough answer, I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Social Policy. But actually, the question right now is at work, and I can assure you that. Marina Volodymyrna Lazebna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u62	Paul Mikolaiovich, good afternoon! Thank you for asking. About 586 Positions. First, it doesn't spread to children with disabilities, but, in the meantime, it does. And we have an agreement with the committee with you personally that we will change it. The project is designed, and it agrees with the central authorities of the executive branch. On Monday, legal expertise will be conducted in Minsk and will be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u63	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u64	Please give it to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u65	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u66	Mr. Prime Minister, a question to you. In Lviv, there has been an energy disaster for the third year. This is the New Section and Novoyavorysk, communities with some 100,000 inhabitants today. In 2019 an extraordinary situation was introduced because of the ongoing processes with the ARMA and the local TEC, the lack of ownership of the local leadership, and the failure of the government to solve these problems at the central level. These are problems that specific people suffer. Today they do not have hot water, and this autumn may begin, more specifically, not the third hot season. Mr. Prime Minister, please tell me what the government is doing under your leadership right now so that you, as Mr. Honcharuk, don't have to come and explain to people in September, why is there another heating period? And tell me, what is the status of the previous decisions that Mr. Germanov made in the working group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u67	I would like to remind you that this year the heating season in Ukraine was unbroken, and without delay people received warm and hot water, especially in the New Section and Novoyavorysk. With regard to preparation for this hot season, it is launched, issued by the government. Preparation for the heating season is under the control of my personal and professional ministries of community and territory development, as well as the Ministry of Energy. With regard to the preparation of thermal power plants for the heating season. This is a complex question that concerns not only the New Division and Novoyavoryska, but also 6 cities where there are six corresponding TECs. Now, also, the NAC Naftogaz-related ministries are working out the preparation and launch of the TEC for the heating season. It will be launched in due time, in legally defined terms without interruption. I assure you. Regarding the capabilities of those TECs in the future. Ready at the Ministry level to provide you with more detailed information in the working order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u68	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u70	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u71	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. Prime Minister, would you please tell me if you support a single service, the State Child Protection Service? That's the first one. Secondly, the question again on wages to miners, more than a billion dollars in debt. Thirdly, "Kenyastvo" DP, why not transfer to the Bilovodsk community today, there are three horse factories, and in Milovsk, the "Striletal Horse Factory". 18,000 acres [18,000 ha] of land should fill the state budget today. Thank you, Vadim Yvchenka, for supporting this situation as well. And the main thing. Please tell me the TSC sent you a report and you did not answer to Parliament for the Lugansk region, for the fires, for the villain-killer Hayday, who is now in charge of the military-civil administration. When will the report from Kabmin be made today? Next, single mothers. 642 The Decision — When Will It Be Repealed Today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u72	With regard to child protection, I fully support your question, the government has been paying constant attention to it, having more than one meeting, a meeting, a conference. A National Social Service has been established, which, in fact, supports child protection and development in local communities. We work with district governments, as well as with local self - government authorities to establish appropriate regional child protection services. And it was on June 1st, on the day of the Day of Child Protection, that a number of government acts were adopted, appropriate and appropriate bills were passed to the Supreme Council. So this work is done by the Ministry every day, and a lot of attention is given. And it really needs special attention, that's an important question. It's about wages to miners. Yesterday, the All-U.S. Council was held to pay off and prevent an increase in debt on wages. The question of the wages of miners is one of the priorities, its security, the stable payment of wages. And the state, both last year and this year, is steady in its commitment to the grant of a subsidy, a corresponding subsidy to pay for the wages of miners. Thirdly, the factories you asked for. In the working order, the Ministry of Profiles will provide you with answers if you request a corresponding MP. Thank you. As far as TSC is concerned, we're all reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u73	Schol Margaritha Vitaliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Laby Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u75	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u76	Good afternoon, Reverend Denise Anatoliyovich, Charms are grateful for the positive and constructive answers provided. Last time I was talking to you, I also wanted to ask you three questions today, a block of questions like this. I'm interested in improving the infrastructure of the border guards who serve in the Zakartat region, because there are many and, let's say, conditions of service and residence for contractors. That's the first question. The second question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, the seventh month in some ministries and departments is the cost of our foreign partners, which is not being used by the ministries today. I'm asking you to do an audit on those funds to make them work. And the third question, however, is the complex issue of garbage treatment, garbage sorting. In the Zacarpathian region, that's a very important question. The ODA works, the district council works, the OTG program also, there's a need for a set of government decisions to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u77	Thank you for your questions. As for infrastructure improvements, I will now ask the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs to answer. Regarding the concept of waste treatment, it is being developed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and I will also ask Minister Abramowski to give a more comprehensive, thorough answer. Please, Mr. Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u78	Thank you. The establishment of the state border has always been and is a priority for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and together with the State Border Service, we deal with issues including the setting up of the Western State border area and improving the material and technical security of the border not only in terms of technical equipment, but also in terms of financial planning, financing of labour costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u79	Thank you, Mikhailovich, for asking. With regard to waste treatment or recycling infrastructure, the Supreme Council is now preparing a second-reading draft on waste management, a framework bill that implements the European directive. There are, in principle, many aspects that will have a positive impact on this sector and generally on the reduction of garbage in landfill sites. But in addition, we're preparing proposals for an increase, a significant increase in the environmental tax on dumping for the purpose that enterprises that are to be built, whether investors are going to build such enterprises get, in fact, a competitive position with polygons, so that the garbage comes to them, is being recycled, it's being reused, and it's only the remains that fall on the slopes and garbage dumps. I know this problem, we're in contact with both the head of the administration and the head of the Zakarpatski District Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for "questions to the government" is up. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you, distinguished officials. Have a good day. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal today to change the schedule of our work as it was last week of the plenary, i.e. cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 and today do not give time to the section "Variable." That is, working in plenary mode, dealing with matters until 12:30, then half an hour for requests from Ukrainian national deputies. I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. Vlasenek, get out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u81	Thank you. Mr. Head, according to my information, from a matter of procedure, according to my information, some 200 parliamentary requests have not been announced from the past and the past sessions. And then I'm asking you to spend more time announcing MP's requests, because MPs are denied the ability to carry out their duties, because there are no requests. So your proposal is right to cancel the break, but request to start calling at 12 o'clock so all requests are announced, including 200 requests that were not available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u82	Let's put my proposal to the vote first. I'm betting on the vote as indicated above, my offer. Please support and vote. [[11:18:33]] For-189 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the Vlasenko vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:59]] For 226 Decision taken. There is a problem: According to the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated. All right, the hall is clear, no questions asked. We've been asking questions since the 12th, haven't we? Okay. The first question of the agenda is Bill 4636-1. Is there anyone here who's gonna insist on editing? We can vote. I'm voting on a second-reading proposal and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the bill's draft registration number 4636-1. Please support and vote. [[11:20:20]] For 278 Decision taken. Arachami of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u83	Colleagues, I propose to raise the question of cancelling the 3711-d Order so that today we can deal with this issue and next week we can go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u84	Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I'm voting on Mr. Arahamaia's proposal, our colleague, for a change of turn. That's right, isn't it? It's about changing the queue. Not "no," but, yes, the lines of questioning, in order to now consider Decree 3711. Please support and vote. [[11:21:33]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend. Sergei Volodymyrovich, next time you are invited to cancel Friday at all. I think there'll be more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. "They'd like Mondays to be taken and canceled," Mondays, yes, Fridays are a good day. I am grateful to David of Arahama, if you listen carefully to the transcript of his speech, he said that the vote he was proposing to do next week after this bill, and then, Mr. Head, read the transcript, and I am asking for the vote to be held as the session room voted next week. With regard to the 3711 ruling itself, in fact 3711-d is a completely disgraceful bill adopted by this Supreme Council, which does not address any issue that is not exactly a judicial reform. I'm afraid, unfortunately, on the contrary, I'm convinced that in one and a half years, the session hall will come together again, because it will either be the Constitutional Court's decision, or this law will be overturned, or it will be another one's conclusion. Sadly, then, this bill violates a number of articles of the Ukrainian Constitution, such as article 1, article 131, and so forth. What does this bill propose? This bill has been paid entirely to the repurchase of representatives of foreign organizations, essentially to the creation of bodies that control the judicial system, and has thus transferred all control of the judicial system. I want to point out that in no country of the world, I emphasize, in no country of the world: neither in the weak countries of Africa nor in Latin America nor in the countries of the fourth or fifth world, there are no such procedures. This procedure was unique for Ukraine. Regrettably, this points out once again, and the violation of article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which refers to Ukraine as a sovereign state, and articles 131, which define the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice. I believe that this bill has been passed in violation of the Constitution, in violation of Rule 116 of the Rules, and then I ask that you support the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u86	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Ulya Volodymyrna, is invited to attend. You don't? Tsymbaluk. The singer of Czymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u87	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium! Dear National Deputies! On June 29th of this year, the Supreme Council passed a decision on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the reinstatement of the work of the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges. And we remember more than a year ago, the work of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges was eliminated or paralyzed. The review of the bill and its adoption took place in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council, and therefore it cannot be considered to have been adopted in accordance with the law and is subject to repeal in the manner provided for in the same Rules. According to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, certain provisions of the bill do not take into account constitutional requirements, including the principle of legal certainty, which contain internal disagreements, have shortcomings of a meaningful and terminological nature, which may complicate the application of the relevant provisions of the law. Yes, the bill proposes to redistribute the powers of the State Judicial Administration in favour of the High Council of Justice. Part six of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges provides that the number of judges in a court other than the Supreme Court shall be determined by the Supreme Council of Justice. Taking into account the advisory opinion of the court, and within the limits of the expenditure set out in the State Budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of judges and the payment of work, as opposed to the actual drafting of the bill. In addition, contrary to the requirements of article 122 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the second reading of the bill did not give any order to eliminate contradictions in the text of the draft. In view of the violation of the requirements of the Constitution and of the Supreme Council’s Rules, in accordance with article 48, part three, of the Rules, the chairman of the plenary was asked to make statements on the relevant violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u88	The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Calchenko, Sergio Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u89	The Honorary Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting this morning reviewed draft decrees: registration 3711-d-P, submitted by the People's Deputy Vlasenko, and the draft Registration Order 3711-d-P1, submitted by the People's Deputies Timoshenko and Zimmerluq. These draft decrees propose to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of 29 June this year on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Registration Act No. 3711-d. According to the authors of the decrees, and this is noted in their explanatory notes, they believe that the draft law and its approval have been violated by the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. The Regulatory Committee has adopted conclusions on these draft regulations (registration 3711-d-P and 3711-d-P1) and recommends that the Supreme Council be determined by voting on their adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u90	Thank you. Are there speakers? Please sign in. I see, Sergey Volodymyrovich. A starry time. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Jurchino Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u92	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u93	Thank you, colleagues. Justice Union, Jurchisin Jaroslav The fact is that we've been going to a really long time to a really historic decision is to finally have a chance to get an adequate filter that won't allow the judicial branch of power to actually be ruled by judges like the Wolf, which is headed by the District Administrative Court, and by other, no less homogeneous ones. So these decisions need to be broken down and moved on to the reform of the supreme. Excuse me, High Council of Justice, as the second stage of important judicial reform. Thank you, committee. Thank you. Thank you. Of course, not without problems, of course, not without nuances, but at least a chance to get a fair trial. Therefore, decisions need to be broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u94	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, I've been hearing about the historic decisions on judicial reform in this session hall since 2010. And activists, as the previous speaker, have been talking about winning the trial reform since the 14th year. And so they talked about winning against building an anti-corruption infrastructure that doesn't work at all and everything else. Unfortunately, instead of a real legal professional discussion on judicial reform, we get political slogans every time. First we're told that all the judges have to be released and brought in new ones, right, we don't know where, and now we're told that all should be decided by foreigners. You know, unfortunately, once again, the problem is that there is no serious discussion. I expected two years from the President of Ukraine of a serious fundamental bill that would reflect his vision of judicial reform. Sadly, I did not wait. We have received devastating conclusions from the Venice Commission, including 3711, including the fact that these are dot bills that do not solve problems that do not solve the deep - seated serious problems that have arisen in the judicial system. Every time there's a debate about the judicial system, there's a lot of people who start with slogans to say that it's better, worse, and it's people who have never worked in the judicial system who don't understand exactly how it works, who don't know exactly what it is. That's why I'm in favour of judicial reform, but I'm in favour of a real judicial reform, not every time there are some screams from the Supreme Council of a cosmomol character about who's right, who's wrong, who's helping the judiciary, who's not helping the judiciary to have a serious and professional discussion. I actually expected it from the President. We didn't expect it from the President, and I don't think we'll be expecting it anytime soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u96	Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u97	Honorary colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, Bill 3711-d is about restoring the work of the Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, restoring the work, restoring the selection of future members of the WCC on competitive grounds. It's about testing their integrity, it's about testing their professional competence and ethics, it's about the new Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, which is going to fill the personnel deficit of the judicial system, which is going to complete the qualification assessment of active judges, which is going to be formed to support our international partners, which is going to be formed on the principles recommended by the Venice Commission. Dear colleagues, we have to vote with a red button now in order not to delay the signing of this bill and the introduction of real judicial reform. Thank you. We're voting red.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u98	Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich with motive. Then we'll move on. Chess. Herasimov, Shahov and we vote. You two. Which one of you?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, I am very grateful to the head of the profile committee for this speech today and, by the way, for the speeches he did during the discussion of this bill in the hall. Because it's this bill, and that's exactly the position of Zelensky's monopoly, that you admit your mistakes when you stopped Peter Prashenko's judicial reform, both in the R & D, and in the part of the R & D, and in the part of the upgrade of the mid- and low-level courts. Admitting mistakes is good, but try not to make more mistakes than you always know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u100	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u101	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the people of Ukraine in the next election will give their conclusions and seal where they vote on all the "spots" that the authorities are making today. I'm afraid today I haven't been able to ask the government the whole question, why did it happen that single mothers who don't go to the judges, because there's nothing to pay the court today, there's still grants left? And then the state takes the money that kind of overpaid. Imagine. My mother and I struggled in our homes, changed seven schools, and so on throughout my childhood. And then there were grants from the Union to single mothers. Please tell me, why are single mothers left without grants today? What courts will decide this matter? Who today have the right to assume responsibility for the next generation to see such a situation? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u102	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support these decisions, and we want to explain why. Because in Ukraine, Ukraine must be governed and involved in the process. And if international partners have such a desire, I think they should give their experience, as they have solved a particular issue. And the key to their experience should be the word "adaptation." If there is no adaptation, no laws and recommendations from partners, international or other partners, they will not work. But this bill changes where the majority vote on the choice of a member or a judge is given to international partners. Just the reasons why we did, we forgot to say. We're already on the D.B.I. Grab, S.A.P. Organs lie down, and there are no executives. And the reason is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u104	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole of the draft regulation 3711-d-p. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:32]] For-33 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote for the whole project. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:56]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of taxation of entrepreneurial activities of e-residents. No, I'm sorry. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for breaching the requirements of the radiation safety regime in areas affected by radioactive pollution (registration number 4156). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:37:56]] For 234 Decision taken. The first deputy minister for environmental protection and natural resources, Borukhovsky Bogdan Valentinovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u105	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! You are being reviewed by the government by a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code to increase responsibility for violating radiation safety requirements in areas affected by radioactive pollution. The purpose of the bill is to ensure compliance with the radiation safety regime and to increase the responsibility for its violations. The draft law was designed to implement Presidential Decree No. 512 of 10 June 2019 on certain issues of the development of areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. The draft law provides: First, to increase the responsibility for breaching the radiation safety regime; second, to criminalize acts such as trespassing into the alienation zone and the unconditional (required) eviction without granting legal permission or arbitrary settlement in them, or destruction, damage or transfer of radiation pollution signs or fences in the designated zones. Statistics. In 2018 there were 371 cases of delinquency; in the 19th and 20th years there was a clear increase of 346 cases in the 1st half of the 21st year. In addition, one of the factors that led to the outbreak of fires in the alien zone, in fact, was the illegal entry into these zones and the continued presence of persons illegally entering the area. This calls for increased responsibility, as well as criminal misconduct, such as entry into the alienation zone and the unconditional (mandatory) eviction without the legal permission of the relevant authorities or the arbitrary settlement in them. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u106	Michael Galina Olegovna, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u107	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we all remember the massive forest fires in the Chernobyl area in April of the 20th, when a protected area was burning and the mass of air pollution in the wind was in Ukraine, and the fire itself was trying to extinguish the fires for a month. So far, it's completely unknown who might be involved in this terrible event, as well as the probability that the ignition itself could be within the alienation zone or the area of unconditional eviction. However, after the events noted, it is clear that we need to significantly strengthen the protection of these areas from those who may illegally enter these areas without permission to allow themselves again to avoid the causes of unwarrantedness and catastrophes. This is especially true of stalkers and residents of neighboring villages who can continue to do their farming despite restrictions and prohibitions established by law. The bill is designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the radiation safety regime and to increase the liability for violations. Directly to achieve that goal, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, such as the deletion of article 46. 1, which provides for administrative responsibility for the violation of the radiation safety regime in areas affected by radiation pollution. It is directly proposed that criminal responsibility be foreseen and that criminal offences be established. A number of comments and suggestions were made by the chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After reviewing the draft bill, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 4156 as a basis for adoption in the first reading. Colleagues, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u108	Thank you. Please write down: two in, two in, against, those who want to speak, the factions who want to speak. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u110	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u111	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading. But I would also like to say very briefly that we would be very grateful if every week drafts of opposition would also appear in the order of the day, in the part that actually falls into the hall and is voted by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u112	Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Igor Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, 8.5 billion dollars, 8.5 billion dollars is the amount of damage caused by last year's Chernobyl fire to the bio-environmental reserve. Minister Abramowski and I were directly at the scene of the fire, and firefighters observed that the cause of the fire was not law. Guys, we need to understand that Chernobyl is not an alien zone, so we talked at the "Ukraine-30" forum. Ecology." But at the same time, this is the area that we have to give maximum control to, and so I propose to support this bill. Because we also need to understand that in the alienation zone, along with the return of animals, there are people who want to hunt these animals. The responsibility for illegal intrusion should be maximum. Friends, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u115	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Alexandra Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u117	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I'll just say two sentences about this bill. If you are simply in a zone of alienation, without a special permit issued by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is already a criminal responsibility. If we had an administrative responsibility and a fine before, and yes, I agree that fines should be raised, now fine 340 dollars, raise to 17,000 -- and the stalkers will not go into the alien zone. But now it's enough to put people in jail for being in an alien zone, it's enough to build a police state. Instead of catching those who are there illegally, the police and proving themselves. They tell me about poaching, about arson. So prove that these are poachers, put this man down. But just because she's in the alienation zone, it's not normal to go to jail right now. Think about how you're going to look at your electorate's face and say that we're now creating zones where you're already in prison for just being here. Next, we'll create a coastal area where there'll be a prison too, because someone doesn't want you there. Please, this bill needs further work. Yes, fines have to be raised, but now the actual administrative responsibility and criminal responsibility are being abolished, the Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I'm asking you, this bill needs work, it needs to be reworked, it needs to be increased fines, and it doesn't need to be beaten again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u119	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u120	Thank you. The Stalkers are asking to pass on the word to Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u121	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u122	Thank you. The honourable presiding is certainly an important question that we are considering right now, but I cannot help but advise on the majority. Yesterday, we were delighted to watch on TV, on the "Rady" channel, as you fought against the oligarchy. You've seen how you've adopted it, even a reduced procedure for introducing alternative laws, you've forgotten about it, and you haven't been able to vote. I'll be honest with you. You want this law as much as the oligarchs fear it. So, your honor, you don't have to cheat on yourself or people or oligarchs or the President or anyone who's involved in this process. There's a law that, by the way, is offered by our faction in the fight against monopolization in the fight against corruption. If they are accepted, then the oligarhat will be eliminated. And what you're doing right now is propaganda. And, of course, I can honestly say, I'm even sorry that he wasn't present for the consideration of the Native Nations Act. I emphasize once again my position: I am in favour of the Crimean Tatars and those who were recognized by law yesterday, in general, in spite of what a number of colleagues have told me today, especially from the faction of "The Trust," they want to propose amendments, but the people who came 600 years ago with fire and sword to Ukraine, recognized by the indigenous people, I twist history, I recognize their right, they choose it; and those who were our allies for several hundred years, had dynastic shortcomings between Hungary and the Galician Kingdom, do not admit it. Therefore, let us treat with respect all those who have lived in our country for a thousand years or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u123	All those who wish to speak? Polakov. After this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, just think about what you want to vote for. Why can't we just increase administrative responsibility? So you're saying that someone is illegally processing their land in an alien zone, these pensioners who get 2,000 dollars of pension, no allowances that just survive, who are forced to process their land there, and there's no way in hell, you're offering them to plant between 1 and 3 years? What are you? What are you doing? Do you understand the consequences? Instead of actually adopting bills that would raise pensions, lower tariffs, you're going to get our people who live on the poverty line, just to plant. It's just that I don't know what to call and whose kind of servants are you? We'll stick to this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u125	National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, please "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u126	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there is actually a need to increase the responsibility for violating the alienation regime. But how this bill has been written tells us that it must be processed, for there is great doubt that it will be possible to work on it for a second reading. I would like to talk about something else: how does the National Agency for the Management of this Territory work effectively, because it is according to valid normative documents that ensure that they do not get in trouble or that they do not get in there unsanctioned as they carry out their duties. There are serious comments from the scientific and expert department, others, including the Attorney General's Office. As a result, we support the first reading, and we need to work very hard on the second reading. If our amendments are not introduced, we will not vote in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u127	Anyone else? Chess. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u128	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, we will support this bill, and there must be a responsibility today to the fact that out of those areas where nuclear war has practically taken place, there is a metal revolution, well, so on and so forth. And the second. Why is there no point in peaceful Ukraine today that there are moments right on Donbas when from the Young Communion, from the mine where there was a nuclear explosion, underground water flows? We don't see her at the Silver Donnelly. After the Silver Donate flies into the Azov Sea, it kills all the flora, the fauna. Everyone is silent today. There's also a company in Kiev called Radon, where nuclear waste is imported from five areas -- and again, no one is responsible, not the nuclear waste dumps that the invaders have been buying from us today, and now it's gathering in Ukraine. Today, 90 percent of the population suffer from cancer. The first place is not the coronavirus, it's cancer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u129	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for violations of the radiation safety regime in areas affected by radioactive pollution (registration No. 4156). Please support and vote. [[11:53:08]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, the president signed our bill, which we voted on at an extra session on Tuesday. It's an important law because it renews some of the benefits to our liquidator heroes. This year's 35th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. And when I and my colleague Tetjana Grishchenko traveled around the most affected communities of Žitomirščina and met with liquidators, we honored the memory of those who were no longer in existence, and they very much asked to tell all of you, dear colleagues, that those benefits that had been taken away from these truly heroic people in the first days, the weeks, the months, the first years in the failed squads actually saved, without exaggeration, mankind. Because no one saw her and no one knew what the threat was. And unfortunately, how many people are gone today because of this disaster. That's why that bill that we adopted with you as a whole on the President's initiative, we convinced by the majority, and yesterday the President signed, is another step towards restoring the justice that these people deserve, and that is what they deserve today, the people that they don't have. And we need to want health and create all the conditions. And that's the least we can do for those people who still have. The month of December will be 35 years old as the start of the Liquidator Day. And I think that those 10 bills that are today in the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans should be considered by this date, and some of them should be adopted, and we should continue that policy and that promise that many of us, I'm sure, have taken on our circuits, because the liquidators are now all over Ukraine. Of course, most of them are in the north: in Cherniguish, in Zitomirsk, in Kyivsk, but in every corner of Ukraine there are people who heroically gave their lives and health — the most precious to save each of us. So I'm asking you, and I urge you, just as unanimously as we have with you, 4555, on 1 January 2022, to return a number of benefits and a significant increase in pensions for liquidators I, II and III categories, so we have continued this policy and this principled position, and we have fulfilled our promise, and we have continued to return a number of benefits that these people deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are four minutes left, I suggest you complete the offer of Vlasenko and proceed immediately to the questions. We're not voting, are we? Announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u132	A small announcement. A statement was made by the people's deputy, Yaremenka, who said that in voting for the bill on the native peoples of Ukraine as a whole, the button did not work, so he asked for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u133	Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u134	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thus, during the calendar week, 100 parliamentary inquiries were made. Of these: to the President of Ukraine – 5, to the authorities of the Supreme Council – there are no, to the Cabinet of Ministers – 52, to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies – 39, to managers of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership – 4. In recent plenary weeks, 72 parliamentary requests have remained unannounced. A total of 172 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. Thus, respectable colleagues, attention is paid to the open-ended roll-call vote in support of Galina Vasilchenko's request to the President of Ukraine to rename the names of the judicial authorities by removing the names of Communist symbols and naming them according to the valid names of cities, areas in cities, districts, and areas. Please vote. [[11:58:11]] For 274 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:58:37]] For 287 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Condratiuk, Ionova, Nataluha, Konstanovic, and others. A total of 27 people's deputies) to the President of Ukraine on urgent measures aimed at eliminating possible abuses and corruption in the completion of the construction of the new medical and diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital "Ohmatdit" and ensuring its proper functioning. Please vote. [[11:59:28]] For 304 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:59:52]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. There is an open-ended vote in support of Geo Leros's request to the President of Ukraine for the fulfilment of Vladimir Zelensky's pre-election promise to unscreech the list of visitors to the President's Office, whose closure enables President Zelensky to hold meetings with oligarchs, persons with a questionable reputation, undetectable to the public. Please vote. [[12:00:36]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Don't be nervous. We'll show you. There is an open-ended vote in support of Geo Leros's request to the President of Ukraine for the immediate eviction of President Vladimir Zelensky of the State House in Conca-Zasp, who condemned politicians who used government duties and budget privileges and the establishment of a children's home on its basis. Please vote. [[12:01:30]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Don't be nervous. I'll show you. Thank you. Open roll call (honorable colleagues, please pay attention! Support for the request of the National Deputies Group (Staff, Galuchka, Jurchenka) to the President of Ukraine for the critical state of historical monuments of national importance in the city of Preyaslav. Please vote. [[12:02:15]] For 245 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:02:39]] For 253 Decision taken. These are all MP's questions. I'm moving on to reading your questions, dear colleagues. [[12:03:55]] So it's the questions of the national MPs. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the acute health problems. Alexander Litvinov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the inclusion of KNP "Balakliska Clinical Hospital for Intensive Treatment" in the list of medical facilities for patients with COVID. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General for providing information on the illegal movement of a shipment of high value goods across the customs border of Ukraine. Sergey Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent resolution of the problem of the rapid decline in the uranium sector of Ukraine and the adoption of high-efficiency decisions on the restoration of the strategic sector. Anna Speedhog to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the resolution of the problems in Ukraine. Anna Speedhod to the Head of Shareholders' Association, Naftogaz National Stock Company, Ukraine, to provide information on the value of natural gas. Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the license of the Kiev City Medical Department. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for funding to be allocated for the implementation of measures for the operation of the 4th North Sea of the K8 layer of the 1,000-metre horizon of the "Gyrska Checkout" State Enterprise "First Sea Coal". Sergei Vlasenka to the Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on possible conflicts of interest and other violations of legislation by Timothy Milovanov. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General's Office regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others)
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I am addressing everyone who is present in this room. I realize that this may not be the most interesting part of the plenary, but it's a plenary meeting. And I'm asking who has no interest, leave the room and give her a chance to prove to the vice-speaker, because it's very difficult to call you out. Please, Olena Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u136	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for your support. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine regarding the violation of the requirements of current legislation in the course of economic activity. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the vaccination situation from acute respiratory disease SOVID-19 lecturers at the National Teachers' University of M.P. Dragomanov. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office for the conduct of a comprehensive audit and service investigation of the activities of individual officials of the General Office of the Ministry of Education in the Gitomir Region. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide comprehensive and comprehensive social, material and other (predicted by legislation) assistance to the affected miners of the "Separated Unit of Chess 9 "Novolinska" of the State-owned enterprise "Volinwogil". Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the issue of the recognition of Ukrainian citizens deported, who were forcibly displaced from the territory of the Republic of Poland in 1944-1951. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need to address the problem of correct measurement of gas counters and population gas tariffs, in the context of Volingaz Shareholders' activities. Groups of National Deputies (Grischenko, Kitsak and others) to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Zitomir District Public Administration, the Office of the Attorney-General on the need for an urgent examination of the illegal use of individual land-use units of the People's Territorial Society of the Žitomir Region, which have the status of radioactive pollutants. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the investigation of the tragic death of a 22-year-old lieutenant, Deputy Commander of the Company of Moral and Psychological Security 128 of the Schemchuk Karina Olegovna Mountain Storm Brigade. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the census of the educational subsidy for the Sarnen City Territorial Society. Natalia Pippa is acting as director of the construction department of the Lviv City Council on the boundaries of the Majorovka Green Zone in Lviv, including the geological monument of the local significance of Medova Cave. Groups of National Deputies (Fedinda, Vátrovitcha, and others) Total 12 deputies) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Centre for Strategic Communications and Information Security, the Head of the Centre for Disinformation Opposition, the Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio-communication on the use of appropriate response measures to detect the misinformation of Ukrainian society and to resist pro-Russian propaganda from the co-workers of channel 1+1, as well as to oversee compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the field of television and radio broadcasting. Groups of National Deputies (Ion’s, Fedin’s, and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the use of measures to detect and resist misinformation and propaganda, destructive information influences and campaigns. Groups of National Deputies (Ion’s, Fedin’s, and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Head of the Anti-Disinformation Centre on the use of detection and opposition measures for misinformation and propaganda, destructive information influences and campaigns. Groups of National Deputies (Ion’s, Fedin’s, and others) A total of 10 deputies) are headed by the Centre for Strategic Communications and Information Security on how to take action to detect and resist misinformation and propaganda, destructive information influences, and campaigns. Groups of National Deputies (Chernyev, Kostenka, and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the inclusion of members of the fighting (alien volunteers) on the sanctions list. Groups of National Deputies (Shevchenka, Dirdin and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-receiving of the appointment of the Head of the State Reserve Agency for Ukraine, Mikita Barabas, and the review of the standard requirements for the professional competence of the public officials of category "A". Alexia Movcan to the Head of the Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification and assessment of the status of the Ukrainian Railway Association, on the investigation of possible inactivity, on the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of the listed enterprise, which has led to a significant deterioration in the technical condition of the enterprise and the main production figures, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, who is responsible for the duties of the head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association to prevent the liquidation of the professional departments of the AT "Ukrazaliznica". Alexia Movcan to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Global City Head, on the process of optimizing the network of educational establishments of the Globin City District Society of the Kremencucci district of Poltava. Artema Cranmoorov to the State Enterprise Research "Restructive" of the Selection and Genetic Institute, the National Centre for Seed Knowledge and Societies for Information Provision. Artema Cnermoorov to the Head of the Department of Maintenance in the Mikolaiiv region regarding the provision of information. Groups of National Deputies (Kachury, Yasko, Kabachenko) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the modern food supply system of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Groups of National Deputies (Kachury, Yasko, Kabachenko) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to purchase a new modern icebox of domestic production. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the creation of legislative preconditions to increase the wages of medical workers and medical assistants. Alexander Kovalova to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection on blocking the work of the working group from drafting a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of the Governmental Authorities of Ukraine and Officials through baseless refusal to provide information to the head of the Administration, Sergey Rud. Bogdan Torokhti to the executive duties of the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine to pay part of the net revenue (income) to the state budget by state - owned unit companies and their associations, which are part of the administration of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Bogdan Thorochti to the Director-General of the Turboat Association on specific issues of AT Turboat. Sergey Nagorniak to the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decree of 10 July 2019 No. 534 on the restructuring of the state-owned enterprise "East Mining and Enriching Combined". Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine to ensure the discovery and taxation of deep-wood enterprises. Maksim Zariski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Public Development and Ukraine for Support of Green Tourism Development in the Mountains of the Chernivetsk Region. Roman Grishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a foreign exchange rate for preschool, general secondary and extra-school education, regardless of the form of ownership. Roman Gritchcock to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the licensing of the School of Political Engineering. Roman Gritchcock to the Head of the National Education Quality Service of Ukraine for the conduct of the private education institution "Politechnic School" based on the municipal education institution. Tetjana Grishenko to Malinské město, Korostišovské město head, Radomislski mišniký head, Horoshovský město head, Chernykhovské město head, Chopovický město head, Brusilovský místelních head, Irschánskémírski vých, Černykhivský vých, Čopovický městýchý head, Brusilovský výchých vých, Irschánských výhýhých, Irsztíršlývých, Irsztíršskévíršívý výh, Irstíršníršlývý vý region, about the provision of information on the land areas of the agricultural assignment on which are leases. Maxim Dirdin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on problems with the financial security of local sub-regional self-government. Artema Cnermoorov to the Motorways Service in Mikolayivsk district for information. Artema Blackmoorov to the utility housing service about providing information about the business. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the extent of funding the Volin area for diagnostics and radiological treatment of cancers. Irina Konstankevitch to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for Medical and Diagnostic Equipment in KP Volin County Medical Center oncology. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the status of carrying out information work on the prevention of cancer among institutions of general secondary, vocational, professional and higher education. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of habilitary and weight control on the roadways of general use of state importance within the region of Bulgaria and Belgrade-Dnistres region of Odessa. Dmitry Black to the executive duty of the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine to conduct an investigation into the avoidance of payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance by the utility "Manufacturer of Housing and Maintenance Union" of the City Council of Dnipropetrov. Victor Mjalik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, for the non-privatization of the state-owned enterprise "Rinetorf". Fedor Venislavski to the Attorney General for information. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase the effectiveness of countering the increase in unemployment. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Pavlánka, and others) Total 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine for the conservation of Ukraine's natural and natural resources and for the non-existence of the blockade of the Beer Island. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Pavlánka, and others) Total 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the provision of a legal assessment and the application of measures to respond to the fact that the PAT "Study Quarter-95" is selling commercial rights to the legal company TOV "STS Media", which is subject to special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions). Michael Bondar to the Radehov City Head of the Lviv Region for the granting of permits for the development of a project with regard to the removal of land for the conduct of private agriculture to the participants in the fighting. Mikhail Bondar to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Energy of Ukraine, on the allocation of the budget for Lvivogilla DP to pay off the January-May 21st debt and the necessary funding for the business in June-December 2021. Dmitra Špenov to the director of the utility Kyivtépénergo to prepare for the heating season. Geo Leros to the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine on explanations regarding the legality of the use by Andrey Jermak, President of the Office of Ukraine of cover-up numbers on his own car. Groups of National Deputies (Kissilevsky, Nataluha and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide information on the signing of an intergovernmental agreement between Ukraine and France on the financing and supply of 130 electric vehicles by Alstom. Sophia Fedina to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the misunderstanding of Ukraine's Permanent Representation at the UN Office with a joint statement on the situation of human rights in the Chinese province of Sinjiang (Uighur People's Genocide) of June 22, 2021. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the verification of possible violations of legislation during construction on the Danube River Coast Strip. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) Only four) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to secure the Starokozac district hospital of Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa district with medical equipment. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney-General on the use of effective measures for the proper and timely conduct of a criminal investigation in a reasonable manner. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney-General for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, on the use of effective measures to provide adequate housing and utility services. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration, for the creation of adequate housing conditions. Alexander Kunicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of State supervision (control) measures for the activities of TV "Balex Company" and bringing its work into line with established requirements and standards. Groups of National Deputies (Kabadenka, Nastawajchenka, and others) A total of 55 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal disconnection from power lines by the Nicolaus Ferrospile plant, a solar power station owned by a foreign investor, Ecotechnic Nicopol. Michael Zimbaluka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extent of insurance payments to families of doctors who died from infection of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 in carrying out their professional duties. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on vaccination of children and education. Groups of National Deputies (Giftcrackers, Kicksacks, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to finance health support facilities of the Žitomir Hospital District, which have been added to the list of health support facilities in the hospital districts for the period up to 2023. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and municipal services in order to avoid an increase in electricity tariffs for the population. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the increase in the expenditure of the State budget for the territorial communities located in the mountains. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the restoration of passenger connections. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend the formula for the calculation of the educational subsidy for the budget of the Vladimir-Volín City Territorial Society. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to provide medical equipment to KNP "Novolin Central City Hospital". Igor Guza to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to restore the movement of passenger trains through the railway station of Ivanichi, Volin Region. Groups of National Deputies (Fraz, Heratchenko and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the inclusion of a citizen of the Russian Federation, Kirkorov Filip Bedrosovich, in the list of persons who pose a threat to Ukraine’s national security. Anton Polakov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of state information and the results of a pre-trial investigation into criminal conduct on the case of a citizen named Olexhi J.P. Anton Polakova, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, for violating the requirements of legislation when processing herbicides. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Odessa City Head on issues related to the violation of unhindered access to the sea (the city of Odessa, Arcadia). Alexander Gorenyuk to the Odessa City Head on issues related to the violation of unhindered access to the sea. — City of Odessa, Mayway, 8. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of housing for Ukrainian citizens. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on ensuring the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of legal education, legal knowledge, public information, access to legal information. Groups of National Deputies (Bobrowski, Rudik and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the introduction of Kirkorov Filip Bedrosovich into the list of persons who threaten Ukraine’s national security. July of the Lighthouse to Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for obtaining permission to start the construction work of KNP "Lozovska territorial medical union". Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services to protect consumer interests in the provision of gas services. Paul Suska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the property and land area of DP "National Centre of Alexander Duženka", including the decision to privatize part of property. Hennady Watzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, National Health Service of Ukraine, Vinnitsky District State Administration for the implementation of the National Health Service of Ukraine's contractual obligations to the KNP "Croat County Hospital of Intensive Treatment" and to ensure that medical guarantees are provided to Ukrainian citizens. Groups of National Deputies (Bondareva, Tsimbaluka and others) to the Finance Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation into officials of the Department of Revenue Laundering, obtained by the Ukrainian State Tax Service. Alexander Kovalova to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection for the provision of information on dissertation studies by U.D. U.D. military personnel for the use of these work in drafting changes to the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of State Authorities and Officials. Mr. Alexander Kovalova to the Head of State Security of Ukraine for the provision of information on the departure to the ATO/OOO zone of the Head of Inspectorate of State Security of Ukraine Zablocky O.I. for the further establishment of a participant in hostilities. Jury Kamelchuk to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in the Lviv Region for Unwarranted Delay in Permitting the Construction of the T-14-04 Red Grad-Rava-Rusca Road. Yuri Kamelchuk to Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the development of the procedure for the repayment of the debt of the PRAT "The Hope Checkout". Roman Lozinski to the head of the Lviv District Council for the renaming of a village of Rudne. Roman Lozinski to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the possible misconduct of the employees of the BSS. Romana Lozinski to the Oleshkov City Head of the Hersonian Region for the preservation of the Ostap Vishti Museum Roman Lozinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of European security standards for street gaming equipment. Alexia Ustenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the repair of the Kozeletski UZI I-III was number 2 of the village council of Chernigiv region. Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine to explain the removal of the ban on Russian artist's entry into the territory of Ukraine, actor of the 95th quarter films, Philip Kirkorov, who is under ban for "public justification for the occupation of Crimea", even in Lithuania, but now will be able to stay in Ukraine without hindrance and make a living in concert activities. And our last questions are three. Marina Bardina to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of access to free internet networks in AT "The Cruise Station". Roman Gritchcock to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the State Support and Transparency of the Financing of Student Self-Government Authorities. And a final request, national MPs. Groups of National Deputies (Pipsy, Grishna, and others) A total of 40 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of fire safety measures in general secondary and pre-primary education facilities. These are all questions for today. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-02-m0.u137	If we are finished, then the meeting will be closed. Thank you, Your Honor. And I invite you to a traditional Friday photo.
