ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, members of the media! Good morning, dignitaries! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Prepare to register. You can see in the hall that there was football last night, which I welcome. Please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, the pros button. Please register. [[10:04:10]] There are 132 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session is open. But it's a record. A little open, yeah, a little open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Vladislav Valeriovich Borrodin, Roman Mironovich Mulik and Valery Alexanderovich Sternichuk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I wish my colleagues the strength, the success, the health and the best of myself and the national MPs! Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about the state and prospects of the development of Ukraine's fuel and energy complex and its impact on government tariff policy. It is suggested, as always, that the next order of action be considered: within 20 minutes, the Ukrainian Energy Minister; then, within 21 minutes, questions from the Ukrainian National Deputies; then, within 20 minutes, questions from the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Is there no objection? None. Please welcome the Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Herman Valeriyovich Galuchenko, to the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! More than a month ago, you supported my candidacy as Minister of Energy. And now I'd like to talk about the priorities of the ministry that's done and the plans that we're planning to implement in the near future, primarily because of your legislative support. What was the state of the energy industry? In fact, the answer is simple: Crisis. And first of all, it was a broken energy mechanism, full balance in the debt accumulation sector inside the market, it's also debt to green generation producers, tens of billions of dollars, it's debt to miners. But let's do it in order. Although the potential strength of the native generation exceeds 55 gigawatts, including 8 gigawatts of renewable energy objects, the real access to power is much lower. We understand that 90 percent of the power grids in the thermal power plant have worked out their resources and need to be updated. In fact, out of 21 gigawatt power plants, only about 13 are actually available, and the rest are either preserved or in an uncontrollable area. A lot of power has an unsecured generation graph. This is certainly the restoration and operation of the atomic generation in basic mode. Another direction, just for example, is that we're going to create DataHub, but out of 12 million gas subscribers, about 1 million and 200,000 consume gas without personal accounting. In the electricity market, the situation in May was very difficult. Many of these were written about, were spoken of, and appropriate counsel and communication took place. The average price of the "in advance" has fallen to a historical minimum in general throughout the period of operation of the electricity market. And it was much less than even the cost of electricity produced by the State Enterprise Energy is the lowest cost in the state. And certainly for all other types of generations, these prices are obviously very, very low-cost. And that's why it had an appropriate effect on the formation of the fuel supply needed to sustain the fall-winter period. Such a situation, in turn, has led to a financial imbalance in public enterprises, and this is particularly important in the context of their responsibilities to provide electricity to the population. Market balance, too, we saw great risks in this in the context of the synchronization of Ukraine's energy system with the European Union's energy system. And so that's exactly what we've been focusing on. With regard to tactical tasks. Today, of course, electricity markets are required to intervene quickly. In fact, some steps have already been taken. There are other initiatives that we're going to take. This is a cut for manufacturers working on special obligations for the mandatory sale of at least 10 percent of the electricity in the forward-looking market. And a second. This is the introduction of a mandatory market trade for all market participants. That's why we want to change our perspective that the price indicator isn't the forward-looking market, it's the market for bilateral contracts. This will make it possible to have market predictability. Of course, the important change that we are preparing to make is a change -- an updated model of PSOs -- it will be presented next week. And here we want to make a certain horizon for this change to see the stability of those electricity tariffs and make a differentiated approach that will allow for a socially vulnerable population. And of course, this price stability for the future will provide an opportunity to invest in the company and for private consumers to use and plan appropriate energy saving measures. What's important is more. This is obviously a question of debt, which I have already pointed out today before the "green" generation. We understand the complexity of this problem, and we really understand that the development of this energy is also very important, and this policy corresponds to the desire of Ukraine to become an equal subject of EU climate neutral policy, which is the European Green Deal. Minenergo sees the future development of renewable energy in Ukraine on competitive principles, taking into account market-based pricing mechanisms and energy system needs. An effective incentive system is to conduct auctions from the distribution of support quotas. This will allow us to identify the scope and technology and location of the VDE objects, to provide priority support for energy systems projects. We have developed and published changes to the auction order, which, once approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, will present appropriate support quotas and schedules for such auctions. In addition, Minenergo is working on a legal basis to involve VDE manufacturers in the electricity market. One of the mechanisms for this involvement is to choose from producer support systems for the green tariff model to the feed-in-premium system. This will allow manufacturers to be, first of all, a full participant in the electricity market, to form their own commercial strategy for selling electricity and to go out into different segments of the market. And we're also working on improving the support system for a small distributed generation of consumers and creating a system for providing guarantees of the origin of electricity from VDE. Another urgent and important topic is, of course, preparation for the heating season. On June 9, the government approved in advance an appropriate plan of action for the preparation of fuel-energy facilities and residential-communal agriculture for the autumn-winter period and its passage. So this allows us to start right now and we've already started, in fact, real action on how to prepare for the winter. I'd like to point out some of the key points in the plan. This is the accumulation of coal and spare fuel, Minenergo has approved the corresponding graph, and now we have and we have control over its execution. We have a plan to attach natural gas to the gas shelters, to store at least 17 billion cubic metres of gas, but we plan to store between 19 and 20. It's our job to provide enough to make the heating season absolutely comfortable. We control the execution of planned repairs to generators of power plants and thermal power plants. The graph is also clear, and there are appropriate controls and plans to do this in the future. We're doing the work of creating an emergency reserve of equipment, materials, and equipment to perform emergency-renewal work on the power lines and transformers. We have started a series of such regular training sessions for this season and will conduct them on a regular basis. Similarly, we optimized the graphics of repairs and upgrades of power plants, and it's also very important to optimize the atomic generation repair schedule, because it's very important for us to get the AES power grids to work as much as possible this season during the fall-winter period. Of course, coal storage is ongoing, and today 1 million 467 thousand tons have been stockpiled. And the key challenge here that we're putting ourselves in is not allowing a lot of problems at the same time, and, of course, that's where the early completion of the repair campaign, the increase in demand for electricity, the deviation of temperature, the cut in the supply of coal. And for us, it's very important that the next heating season should go on in a stable way, because it's not a secret, and we keep saying that next year we have a plan to work independently, disconnecting from the energy system of the Russian Federation and Belarus, in order to ensure that in 2023, Ukraine is being synchronized with the European energy system. So it's a set, a whole set of measures that we're going to do and we're going to do on a permanent basis. Questions about the early strategy. We've identified four key objectives and identified the right goals for achieving them. First of all, it's certainly energy security and market principles. The goal is to take steps to improve the working conditions of energy markets, to pay off the debt they have accumulated. So this is about debt that's formed inside the electricity market itself, debt among the market participants first. The supply of steel, as I've already pointed out, is an inflammable season and development, of course, a very important element, is the development of energy infrastructure. The second strategic objective is certainly European integration, this is integration with the European energy network ENTSO-E and bringing domestic legislation into line with EU legislation. This is a very important question, because in fact the integration process has two aspects: the first is technical integration, the integration of the system; and the second is standard-setting integration. So when we have to do it at the moment we synchronize, these rules of work in the market and build it so that it's perfectly consistent with 100 percent of the rules that exist in the States of the European Union. Third. It's energy efficiency. Of course, this is the development of renewable energy sources and alternative fuels. We're going to work on increasing energy efficiency at all levels. Similarly, we see the strategically important development of renewable energy in an economically efficient way, the expansion of the use of alternative fuels. And last but not least, in order, but not the importance of directions, it's energy independence. And this is where we focus on increasing energy consumption, diversification of sources and supply routes. I want to stand alone on integration with ENTSO-E, because this is a key priority in the Ministry's activities and therefore one of the key tasks that are generally strategic for the state. Of course, we understand that the success of this process is to a large extent dependent on the coordinated work of market participants, public authorities, relevant institutions and organizations. And we certainly understand that the corresponding changes, including in the market, should be done in the same way as making appropriate changes to the laws. And here I'm going to very much ask for your support in transforming those rules and bringing them in line with European standards. Of course, there are many challenges ahead of us on this journey. And this is certainly true of both transparency and predictability of the market. This is certainly true of the environmental parameters of the so - called mix of Ukrainian electricity. And that's why it's all a big complex of work that we need to do and that we're already doing, and we're going to do in the future to successfully complete the synchronization process. I am sure that we will go this way and we will become part of Europe's unified energy system, because there is no real alternative to that. So thank you for your attention and ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Kovalov Alexander Ivanovich. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u4	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. I have two questions for you, Minister. From July 1st, the fixed price of electricity for the population ends, which is now December 1st 68. When you were in office, you said that there would be protection for low-income groups. What exactly is the Ministry of Energy going to do in this direction? And the second question. Since May 20, Naftogazu's commitment to the government has ceased to supply gas to thermal power companies for fixed and unpaid. This can significantly increase the tariff for these companies. So what's in this direction, what are the measures, what are the mechanisms, what are we going to do with the Ministry of Energy in this direction? Two questions, please give a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u5	It's about the first question. Regarding electricity tariffs. In fact, I promised, by 1 July, we were saying that by 1 July there would be a new mechanism, and he really predicts that he will be presented next week. It really predicts the diversification of tariffs depending on population, population categories. And today we see that we can, as a minimum, be in the project for now, it's just to protect the socially vulnerable levels, it's what we are today separating the population that consumes up to 100 kilowatts, and we're working accordingly on what today is the project that provides for the protection of that population category, due to a corresponding reduction in the tariff. As far as TKE is concerned. It's really, you know, since May 20, what you've pointed out, the PSOs respectively have stopped working, and today, actually, one of the key mechanisms is debt resolution. The relevant bill has already been approved in the first reading by you, thank you. The second question is that it's a contract arrangement between Naftogaz and TKE. So far, there are about 170 of them. And in principle, we assume that by the beginning of the season, these contracts will have been fully secured by all TKE enterprises, and there's a fixed price.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u6	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u7	Thank you. The Party for the Future MPs. Dear German Valeriyovich, as we know, native atomic energy is the cheapest energy, and we have out of 15 energy clouds in Ukraine now operating 10, and the last stop is the 4th power grid of the Zaporozhye AES, formulated through a surplus of electricity in the system. So we have an excess of electricity, but prices are going up. How does the Ministry of Profiles affect this situation? The other one. When will the government respond to the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we voted to reduce electricity tariffs for residents of the 30km zone around the AES? And the third. Why does the government and the Ministry of Profiles accept debts for gas, which they invented after the courts canceled the regulations on gas consumption? Why is the government and the ministry taking on financial adventures of deceptions today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u8	Thank you. So the first question is about the limitation of the atomic generation. In fact, look, this is the result. This is certainly the result of the fact that there is a surplus in the system today, and the question here is, it's very much about preparing for winter, because today it's more of an economy here, because Energoat has calculated that today he's producing electricity that he can't sell, realize, it doesn't make sense, and that's why they stopped. There, you are, if you look, they're actually there and they're talking about it in the press release that it's not because there's a constraint that they're forced to do, that they've basically calculated that they're economically more comfortable now to put the block into reserve and then load it right into the fall-winter period. This will give them an opportunity to realize this electricity at a high price, because today the market is open, even if you imagine that they could sell it, the price is very low today on the market as a result of the profit as well. And accordingly, and importantly, it's about that repair site that I was talking about so we could go out in winter with the maximum power of the atomic generation. So that's not the situation here, you know, when someone volunteered it there and they did. They just can't sell that energy. It's about gas issues. It's actually the same issue in this law that was voted in the first reading. The key thing in this law is, of course, the TKE issue and it's the clearing of TKEs from debt, and that's what's going to enable you to make the right deals and move. So about your trailer, I think it's all possible to work with that text for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u9	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u10	Please pass the word Sosun to Inni Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u11	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u12	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Minister, three questions to you. The first question is that you just talked about shutting down the Zaporozhye AES blocks. You say it's for repair, but according to Ukrenergo, the block isn't in repair right now, it's in reserve. And I don't quite get it, you're saying it's economically inconvenient to sell electricity right now. But this remains economically advantageous to other manufacturers. And I want to understand your position on nuclear power. The second question is about Krennergo. You talked about the need for certification by 2023. Recently, there was a statement by representatives of the Energy Community that, with this debt that is now on Ukrenergo, it was a bit premature to talk about certification. I want to understand very much the position and further action of the government on this issue. And the third question is DataHub. You've just mentioned the need to create it. I would very much like you to explain to the people's deputies in what format it is now necessary to settle this issue at the legislative level in order to meet our international arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Well, I'll be right back on the first question. I didn't say repairs, I said it was put in reserve. And that's a different situation. Because repairs. The site or schedule of repairs is planned, and you can't just take it if you don't have one. Thank God, this is not happening, this is an extraordinary event. So the question is, what is it today? When Energoatoma didn't work in the market, in fact, it was, of course, generating or not generating, it was a tariff that he kept. And this tariff did not depend on the market situation. So far, the production site and the sales site are completely interdependent. Because there's no point in producing electricity now that you can't realize if you realize that you're going to burn fuel, and then when the season comes, when there's really going to be a deficit and you can put all that energy into the system and get the maximum cost, and you're going to reload the fuel. Well, technically, you can't do that anymore. That's why it's true. Yes, they are simply tying up these questions, and this is very important in terms of the economy. Because, well, of course, it's just to produce to, yeah, work, well, it doesn't make any sense. Of course not. It's about Ukrenergo. Really, yes, it was, last week, I was on this panel. The only thing I couldn't hear was Mr. Copac. He was the one who spoke and said. But I'll tell you, it was Thursday, Friday, we talked to him at the Ministry. First of all, it's a little bit, I think, adorned by this position of his with regard to what was written. He was not so sure when we discussed it. The second question. Look, of course, Krennergo's debt is an important thing, it's a question of both the green generation and many others, it's a balancing market. And now we have a concrete plan just like that. And so will we.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u14	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u15	Herman Valeriyovich, good afternoon! This year, the East Side Enterprise is going to be 70 years old. But unfortunately, the situation at the company isn't quite as comforting right now, and we're again seeing wage delays and problems at the company. This time it was only enough to pay off the debt and to pay off the debts of the court. I'm concerned about the future of the uranium industry, and at what stage is the process of joining the East Coast to the NATO Energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u16	Thank you. I literally spoke to the representatives of the trade union yesterday and the director of the East Side, respectively. In fact, the situation looks like there's no debt, there's no debt, there's an East Side meeting its obligations to Energoate now, and Energoat is properly fulfilling its obligations to the East Side. So it's a little bit of a question of pay debt, it doesn't exist right now. Of course, it is not an easy situation. And we've asked for additional funds -- 600 million dollars to support the East Side. Similarly, it is a matter of amending the Budget Act. I'll ask you to back it up. But, look, here's really the key: we're definitely going to be developing the uranium field in the state. This is important, this is a strategic issue for Ukraine. The question is, you have to find a mechanism here because you have to. We're going to be working on the transmission, but, you know, the question is that the fact that it's transmitting doesn't solve the problems that are on the enterprise. And that's why the key here is to make the East Side optimize processes in the same way to get out, the key, in an ideal way, into the world price. And then he's going to get completely different possibilities. It's not just Energy. Then the volume will supply this uranium to other businesses and balance it accordingly. That's the key, that's what's going on right now is to optimize the company's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u17	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u18	Please pass the word Klimpush-Cincadze to Ivanni Orestovni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u19	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u20	Mr. Herman, would you please tell me what action you're proposing right now to confront the Northern Stream 2? And if it's built up, what's our strategic plan of behavior? And what will you offer the government of Ukraine? The second question. We know that Ukraine wants to join the European Green Course. There's an ambitious goal to increase the share of renewable energy sources to 70 percent in its energy mix to 50. At the same time, the government is taking the initiative to reduce the green tariff. Changes in memorandums, deals with investors. How are you going to achieve these goals? And how are you going to restore investor confidence to both international and national investors? And the third question. You said you had a broken market mechanism. Please tell me, which of your three predecessors, the ministers, or this majority MP, will be responsible for this breach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u21	Thank you. It's about North Stream-2. See, this question, it's really been discussed at all levels. And by the way, what's happening today with the market price in Europe for gas is just the result of what our neighbor is doing to force this North Stream. Of course, we're looking at this, in general, this North Stream as a weapon, it's not about the economy now and the business. We realize that the amount of walking 55 billion because of this North Stream is actually extremely dangerous. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are we going to do? Look, there's a few directions. First of all, let's talk about the fact that this question is not closed. There's an example of OPAL when it was introduced, and in fact it only works by 50 percent. This is also an option that we need European legislation to apply to that North Stream. That's one direction. The second direction that we are thinking about is perhaps also the question of the return to the idea of a consortium on the Gas Transport System to ensure the transit of Ukraine's territory. Because, I'm sorry, the promises that the treaty will be fulfilled and their fulfillment are different things. Therefore, a number of steps must be taken. Of course, we will continue to oppose the implementation of this flow, but in parallel, we will certainly need to look at those that we can engage with partners in order to ensure the functioning of our domestic system at the green tariff. In fact, that is certainly a question. Look, 70 percent, you said there was a "green" generation in the 50s.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u22	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u23	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. May I give the floor to the national deputy, Shufrich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u24	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Herman, I have two questions for you. They're quite specific. First question. Yesterday, on the "Right to Power" program, Yuri Vitrenko admitted that he was producing the cost of Ukrainian gas for two thousand and 400 dollars. We understand that this involves an investment component, or further development of gas production. Why did NAC Naftogaz set the average annual price of 7 000 960 dollars and currently 11,000 400 dollars? That's the first question. Because this gas belongs to the people of Ukraine, it has the right to buy it at its cost. And the second question. We spoke to you during your assignment, which will return the user's benefits to 100 kilowatts. Sadly, this did not happen. Please tell us why, and when will this happen? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u26	I, with your permission, will start with a second then, yes. Actually, that's what I'm talking about, we're really working on it. This next week, you're going to see specific calculations about the size of this benefit up to 100 kilowatts. These are about 16 million households in the country. This is about 41 percent of the population, those who use or consume up to 100 kilowatts. It's about Naftogaz. Look, the question that was published yesterday about this monthly rate, which you say is more than 11 bucks. This is just saying that this tariff is shaped depending on the price of gas and is calculated accordingly. But the point here is that Naftogaz has moved all of its consumers to an annual tariff of 7,96, and this tariff is kept for a year, and that's what it goes for on May 1st next year. And on that monthly rate, which is much more, 11 or more bracelets, man, no one can force her to cross. A man, if you will. And we clearly understand that no one will voluntarily move on to a higher tariff. So the question here is that, as of today, if you look at the 3 million contracts they have, NAK Naftogaz with consumers, no consumer has gone to this exact monthly tariff. So the question is, the price of gas, of course, if there's still such a gas deficit in Europe, which is today, of course, it could be even higher on a monthly scale. But as far as this does not apply, it does not apply to the annual rate that will apply for the corresponding period until May 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u27	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u28	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to an expert in the field of energy, the residential and utility sector of Alexia Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u29	Alexy Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Mr. Secretary, with all due respect and sympathy for you, I will ask the Prime Minister my question, because the Ministry's function has been greatly weakened in recent years, and this is a matter of government. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, first question. Where do you get this price for gas, from which ceiling? What's the logic of the increase in gas prices for heatcommuneers, the price of gas for the population, and at the same time we're writing down huge debts -- 55 billion that have been accumulated in recent years? What is the logic of this process? And the second. In the electricity market, a catastrophic situation, huge debts. The National Commission for Energy and Utilities should be responsible for this. Why has not the National Security Council addressed the issue of its inaction as a criminal? Thank you, and I'm waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u31	If you don't mind, I would. It's just that the subject is closer to me personally. As to the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u32	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u33	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please sit down. Sign up for a statement from. Time's up, dear fellows. Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister and the ministers, Your Honor. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question for both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy, and I will continue. Today, Ukraine is extracting 14.2 billion cubic metres of gas, and just as much is needed to provide the population and the utilities. Yesterday, on the "Right to Power" program, Yuri Vitrenco admitted that he was making a cost, which means with an investment component, 2,000, 400 dollars. Why are Ukrainians sold 7,000 960 - year - old contracts? Once again, the production of Ukrainian gas by 2,400 is enough to provide for the population of Ukraine. And so it was when Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich was responsible, and, justice of the council, it was when Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna was responsible. Why was it possible for them, and now people are paying over three and four times for the gas that belongs to the people of Ukraine? Thank you for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u35	By your permission, actually, let's just say that these contracts with the price that 7.96 were put before Vitrek came into office, in fact that's the inheritance that he got. And that's why the question here is whether you need to look for mechanisms to break these contracts, which were made exactly and appropriately, because the price is a fundamental condition of the contract, and in any case it's not possible to change it simply, that is to say, it has to be solved in general with the termination of the contract. So the question is, actually, these contracts already existed. How much is it possible to review this price for exactly what you're saying, the conditional cost of production and the corresponding price that is set. Let's have a meeting with Yuri Yuriovich first, and then we'll come back with an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u36	Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u37	Please give the word to Maxim Eugenovich Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u38	Again, who? Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u39	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. On April 15th of this year, the Supreme Council voted in favour of a decree calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to take urgent measures aimed at lowering the price of electricity for domestic consumers who are constantly living in a 30-kilometre zone of nuclear power plants. I have a question to you that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been made to implement this decree, what concrete steps has been taken by the Cabinet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Yes, I can confirm that we've had this conversation with you on several occasions. Indeed, a number of measures have been taken, there have been instead of three benefits now two benefits, a night fare plus an appropriate subsidy for 30km of zones, in particular. But a separate Ministry of Energy is now generally in the context of the development of a general strategy for electricity prices, which has been discussed on many occasions here today, and has developed a general concept of price policy in the state for electricity, which is common to all. There will also be benefits for all possible and appropriate prices, up to market prices, depending on the volume of consumption. Now this work is being done, as soon as possible, by the Minister of Energy to present it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u41	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u42	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Coldov Andrija Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u43	Gorvat Andri Ivanovich. Cold Andrey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u44	Andrew Holodov, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, look, the activities of the State Property Fund are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet by law. In 2020, the privatisation proceeds amounted to 2.2 billion dollars, 1.1 billion of which came from the sale of the Dnipro Hotel. But corporate tax debt from the government of the State Property Fund increased in 2020 and amounted to 2.9 billion dollars at the end of the year. And at the same time, from the rent of state and municipal property, the state did not get 2.8 billion dollars or 68 percent of the planned revenues, which is more than all the revenues from privatization. Why did this happen? Because the fund was unable to prepare the necessary legal acts within the time limits established by law. Maybe that's the way the lease agreement was approved until September of the 20th. So from January to September, it was not clear how to make leases. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u45	The figures for privatisation revenues are absolutely faithful. This year, the plan is worth 12 billion dollars. With regard to the Fund's activities and the figures you call on debt, the financial result, after you've made your request, the Fund's mandate will be to prepare a full report, to submit it, in particular, to the Supreme Council and to you as a national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u46	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u47	I have a question for the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. We had adopted Ukrainian Law 6490-d, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers Order 565. What State has undertaken to partially compensate the EU for small farmers, but 90 percent of the compensation has not been paid in 2020. Small farmers ask if they are needed by the State, will the State fulfill its commitments? Are they no longer needed by the introduction of the earth’s market? What's it gonna be like when they can't report in 20 years to this day? And the question to the Ministry of Culture, why didn't the Minister fulfill his promises, go to Preyaslav to deal with the situation surrounding the Museum of Peryaslav NIEZ, and what situation with the Council of Woznies and the bells that are falling apart? I've stressed this a number of times.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u48	Rostislav Karandiev, First Deputy Minister of Culture, Information Policy. This question is not new to us, and obviously to you too. Information Policy Minister Alexander Tkachenko has this problem. We are now awaiting the immediate conclusions of law enforcement agencies that are conducting appropriate judicial investigations into criminal cases that have been violated. And after that, the minister will be ready and will have a great desire to address the issue of leadership of this important Ukrainian cultural heritage by establishing and normalizing the situation that exists there. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u49	Minister of Agriculture Policy Lechchenko In the EU-related part, the creation of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and the corresponding adoption of the budget for the 21st year budget, respectively, resulted in a delay in the formation of appropriate budget passports. In the near future, this issue will be settled, since the Ministry of Agrarian Policy has already obtained the appropriate subjectivity and Statehood of corresponding accounts, everything will be in a stately state. That's why we're settling this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u50	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Maxim Zarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u52	Zhariah Maksim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u53	Good afternoon! I have a letter to the Prime Minister. During the June month of the current year, heavy rainfall in the district began to develop. Now she's starting to stabilize and they're going down. But further development depends on weather conditions. The population of 202 in the flood area has been worrying for many years, and it is usually harmful to certain areas. I'm asking you to give me an assignment to develop a state program to protect you from floods. The problems with dams, shores, and regulatory jobs need to be addressed at the national level, with appropriate funding being allocated. I set out my vision in my Bill 4455, which passed another December 3, 20, on the protection of populations and territories from floods. I would also like to point out that during the flood of the 20th year, damage to the Jurov Banil pipeline has not yet been resolved. It's in the Viennese region of Cherniveck.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u54	Thank you for asking, it's really relevant. The Kabin is now taking care of this issue. We made separate decisions on the transfer of additional funds to the State Service for emergency situations to deal with the possible consequences of flood situations. But besides that, of course, they need to be prejudiced because fighting is already the result, and last year we saw all these examples. According to the State Water Agency, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has a mandate. But once you're done, we're going to duplicate these orders, depending on the situation of this season, to activate the work of creating flood management and all the infrastructure, as well as its, let's say, inventory of what it is now. Because last year has shown that you can't joke about it. Thank you for your request and for taking him to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u55	Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Aliksiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u57	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! Alexander Alyxiychuk, 154th constituency, Equinox. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. To date, we have finally shut down the import of electricity from the aggressor country and Belarus, which was not much -- 0.5 percent of our market, but we have stopped this disgraceful phenomenon. Today, however, we do have a number of energy products, such as coking coal, anthracite coal, diesel, gasoline. And the imports of these goods from the Russian Federation, from the aggressor country, I emphasize, reach 30 to 40 percent of our market and make up millions or maybe billions of dollars. I have a question. Do you have any suggestions on how to deal with this situation: limitations, diversification? And the second question. In recent days, electricity prices have risen by 30 percent. What to do with utilities, where to prepare for water canals, where to prepare people if they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. Actually, it's about import. The Energy Ministry was the initiator of this ban on imports, and we called about it, and we wrote about it because it's just a decision that was made by the commission, and we were just saying that it's important because it's special. We understand that it's a strategic issue and that it's importing electricity from the Russian Federation -- it's not right and correct, and it doesn't actually bring any questions to us, but it destabilizes the market. It's about coal and everything. Look, actually the main goal that we're looking at as a ministry and we want to achieve is this is really what I'm talking about, this is one of our key priorities is energy independence. So just to build an energy system in a way that we don't depend on anyone and, of course, there's even a question here whether it's Russia or Belarus, because it's appropriate and imports go from Belarus, you know, it's also very small, especially for diesel fuel and so on. So the question is, what do we have to do is take a whole series of steps to make sure that we're going to be able to get 23 years into sync, and ideally, we have to ensure this state's absolute energy independence? And that's exactly, yes, that's the question of how much we're extracting here, coal, including how much we're going to be here, we have the opportunity to process oil and oil products. So these are important things that. In fact, Ukraine has the potential to do so. The question is that we need to focus on this in order to take a number of steps so that we can just get out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u59	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u60	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! I have a block of references to you, and I would like to say that Mapping is grateful for your response to the previous reference. I'd like to ask you a first question. It's a shore fortification, of course. Maxim Zariski spoke, you have already answered. The question is also raised in the Swalava region, Brezniki, Kushnica, Torun, Lopushne Mižgirski district, Volovetský, Velikobraznianski. Please, if you are in trouble, please renew these financing programs for the construction of the shores. Second question. I'm letting you know that in Zakarpat, unfortunately, TVs that broadcast to the Zacarpathians are closing. Today, it covers mainly Russian television for some reason. Because digital doesn't cover. And notice, the TVs are closing. And the question of the appointment of a forest manager. It's stalled, it's gone. Also the Uzani National Park, I repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u61	Sharaskin Andrey Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u62	I'll give you a quick answer. Thank you, Your Honor. Regarding counterattacks, he said, I'm not going to repeat it, it's in control, and this work is going to be done by the government, by the government. It's a TV thing. I didn't hear that. I'm just taking jobs, too. And I ask the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy to provide an appropriate report on this information, if it's true. And also, well, figure out what's going on, if that's what's going on. With regard to Lysagence, I also appeal to the minister of environmental protection to respond to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u63	Sharaskin Andrey Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u64	Oh, my God, hello! Andrew Sharaskin. To the Minister of Finance. I would like to remind you that we already have a fixed state policy on veterans, especially modern veterans. And I'd like to draw your attention to your comments. Why is the Ministry of Veterans still the most successive ministry in the budget declaration? That's the first question. The other one. To the minister of health. You turned down the veterans' bags to serve the veterans. But the issue of raising the ratios of veteran service is never addressed. So what's your next move? And to all members of the Security and Defence Council. Today, I ask you to consider the answer to the appeal of the Interfractional Interfractional Union for Protection at the Security and Defence Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u65	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich I'm sorry, the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been asked to consider the budget declaration. There's enough money for veterans. You know that the budget declaration is now under consideration in Parliament, and according to the Rules of Procedure, the National Deputies, the Committees are developing their proposals for budgetary policy, taking into account the budgetary declaration. So you can make your proposals in general, we'll look at them, and we'll work on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u67	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u68	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. To the Prime Minister, once again and peacefully waiting for an answer. Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, in recent years we Ukrainians have been convinced that there is a gas market in Ukraine. I hope even a child understands now that there is no gas market and the price of gas is essentially set in the President's office at meetings where all participants are present and where this price is taken from a ceiling. Tell me, please, maybe we should admit that NAC Naftogaz is today a monopoly officially that there is no gas market? And let's put a fair price on gas, not the price that will lead to the population and the heat utility, and all the other subjects in huge debt that we won't know where to write. And once again, I insist on assessing the role of an independent regulator who has distorted everything that can be done by making billions and millions of bonuses. Independence does not mean permissiveness; it must be responsible for its actions. And I think it's a match.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u69	Honorable People's Deputy on Gas Prices. In Ukraine, the gas market, the open gas market, worked and operated. The price is based on exchanges, including international exchanges. Over 80 suppliers supply natural gas to various consumers, industrial and private. Today at Naftogazu, over 1 million private consumers are receiving gas at the price of an annual product. It's equal to 7 grams of 96 copies per cubic meter. At the same time, of course, there are stock markets. A monthly indicative monthly price, a monthly product, is set. The monthly product is used by zero Ukrainian citizens, a monthly product of Naftogazu. This really indicated for today. No one wants to use such a product. So during the year, starting on May 1, when it was fixed. Since June 1st, when the price of gas was fixed in the annual equivalent, it's equal to 7 grams of 96 copies of Naftogazu. And all private consumers, especially those who join Naftogazu right now, get gas at the price of 7 gr. 96 bps per cubic meter. At this, we see significant price fluctuations in the global and domestic markets. And today, the indicative price is well over 11 dollars. But that doesn't mean that the price for August, September, can't go down. So, of course, Naftogaz encourages people to keep track of price fluctuations. When they are smaller, other decisions can be made there. Regarding TKE, the corresponding memorandum has been signed. Of course, we thank the Supreme Council for supporting the bill. And we are looking forward to this law so that all the positions of the memorandum with the city councils, with the communities and with the heat companies can be implemented. Allowing them to manage tariffs in cities is more effective than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the "hours of questioning to the government" are over. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you, Your Honor. Before we go to the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian National Budget for 2020, we have an application for a recess with a replacement for a speech. And I'm asking for a meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies, because yesterday representatives of all the MPs and groups came forward with an invitation today to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 and not to have "Rizzne" today. So that's how we're going to work in plenary mode and we're going to be looking at 12:30, and then we're going to be asking questions, and the 13th is going to be called to close the plenary session. It's Shahov. Please invite the national deputies so that we can vote on the proposal mentioned above. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u71	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we still feel a biological war going on around the world. But I want to go back to Ukraine exactly to the territories that are occupied today. And we're going to have a technological catastrophe, an environmental disaster, and it's already started. In that area in Lugansk the water was stopped in the Golubovska mine. The water's holed up in the Ryduga mine. Then she went to Firstwater Coal, and now she's going to the Golden Mine, and she's sinking two horizons. I was unable to ask the Energy Minister why and who wants to stop and shut down electricity today, and for what? This is a deliberate suicide for the coal industry and for all the people who live on the surface and do not see what is happening underground. This water will go to the Silver Donate, then it will kill all the flora and fauna in the Azov Sea. I demand of this Kabmin today to address this issue and not allow the terrorists to cut off the power cutter today on the mountain mine, Toshkovsky, Lysichanskwugil. This is a very important question. It's different. I'm going back to Kabmin. It's a question of the miner's salary before the miner's Day, before the Constitution Day. A billion 200 million dollars of debt again. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Energy and Fuel. The problem is unstoppable. When will this end? When they do, they stop robbing an ordinary worker who sits a thousand feet underground and feels thrown to the side of the road. The country today does not care about its own energy, thinking about how to buy electricity in Belarus or Russia. We need to develop our coal pool, develop our coal sector. And we have enough, 100 billion tons of coal lying in Luhansk. Why are they not paying attention to this? Why do coals come from Africa and Egypt? Just killing your own energy, killing your own job, the miner. I'm calling you, parliamentarians. Sign a decree that Michael Wolinz and I will sign on the hall, and we will refer to the Minister of Energy and the Prime Minister. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am now putting to the vote the proposal to cancel the 12 to 12:30 recess at this plenary meeting today, as well as to make an exception and not to ask the question of "Virgin." Is there no objection? Is everyone ready to vote? I'm betting on the above-mentioned motion for voting. Please support and vote. [[11:09:16]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You will have before you the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020. In accordance with article 162 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the report will be discussed in full. The next order of business is proposed. Report by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine – up to 10 minutes; reply by the Minister of Finance to questions from the National Deputies – up to 6 minutes; report by the Head of the Court of Auditors to 5 minutes; replies to questions to 6 minutes; report from the Committee on Budget Issues to 5 minutes. Next, he spoke from MPs and groups -- 21 minutes (three minutes each fraction) and made speeches by national MPs -- up to 6 minutes. Then we will conclude our consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, no objection? None. The report is addressed to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u73	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! To meet the requirements of the Code of Budget and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I present your opinion on the Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020. I'll start with the conditions our government started its work in 2020. This is the opening of the COVID-19 pandemic, the decline in economic dynamics, the failure to implement the secluded budget, the actual budget gap on May 1 was 44 billion dollars, the absence of a cooperation programme with the International Monetary Fund. For me, as a finance minister, the key task for the 20th year was to strengthen fiscal fission and to find resources to fight the pandemic and its consequences. First of all, my focus was on ensuring the effective functioning of the tax and customs services, carrying out planned rates of revenue, loading financial holes that had been created in the first four months and providing stable revenue to finance priority spending in the fight against the pandemic, supporting people and business, managing and enhancing cooperation with the IMF and international partners. The terms in which the 2020 budget was implemented have been difficult, frankly, but the results that we have achieved through the coordinated work and support of the President of Ukraine, parliament and government have allowed us not only to end 2020 but also to provide a basis for economic growth this year. Ukraine’s progress was appreciated by the international community. Ukraine has become the only state in the world whose international rating agencies Moody’s and R&I raised credit ratings during the pandemic. The IMF cooperation programme was signed in June. As part of the preparation of the memorandum, commitments were reduced from 17 to 12 and the first tranche of $2.1 billion was received. Two tranches of macro-financial assistance from the European Union amounted to 1.1 billion euros. Effective work with investors allowed the budget to be funded by some 640 billion dollars, in particular in December, a 12-year foreign government bond was placed at the lowest rate of $600 million in the history of Ukraine at 6.2 percent. The Ukrainian Office of Public Debt Management became the best in Central and Eastern Europe, according to the GlobalMarkets version. In addition, 12 contracts with international financial institutions were signed last year for the inclusion of US$2.5 billion in foreign credit assets. We have done our key task for 2020. An income budget was implemented and a 44 billion - dollar hole was closed in the first months. If the plan was only implemented by 87 percent in the first three months, we were able to secure a percentage budget in May. And in June, for the first time since the beginning of the year, the overall fund was overrun by 5.5 percent. The positive trend continued throughout the year. Overall, the overturning of the revenue of the State budget in 2020 amounted to 54 billion dollars, with 1.1 trillion dollars in cash. This has been achieved by improving tax and tax administration efficiency, eliminating VAT evasion schemes, and reforming tax and customs authorities. The arrival of the internal VAT in 2020 amounted to nearly 126 billion dollars, more than an indication of 40 billion dollars. The tax effectiveness of this tax was 3.1 percent compared to 1.8 percent in 2019 on average for 2020. I would like to describe closely what was done in the tax and customs sphere. In the tax area, the efficiency of the tax control system is enhanced. For the first time in 20 years, the state has been fully accounted for under its VAT liability, including more than 4 billion debts in previous years. Since August 1, 2020, free software RROs have been launched. A single tax and collection account has been launched, a new reporting format for the accounts of the European Union and the TFEU is provided for the implementation of the BEPS action plan. With regard to the transformation of Ukrainian customs, simplification of customs formalities and the development of international trade have been introduced. An experimental customs testing project has been launched, and priority security plans have been approved. Since January 1, the tax office has moved to a single legal entity. This means removing duplication of functions and procedures, increasing the institutional capacity of fiscal authorities, ensuring transparency of activities. Thus, the work done on fiscal reform and the stabilization of the coming situation allowed the deficit to be maintained at a much lower level than planned. The actual budget deficit in 2020 amounted to 5.2 per cent of GDP in the planned 7.5. That is, the need for debt or borrowing was reduced by 81 billion dollars. We plan to continue the budget deficit reduction policy in 2024, which is expected to reach 2.7 percent of GDP in 2024. In 2020, all priority expenditure was funded on time and in full. Capital spending has increased to 95 billion dollars. Within the framework of the hedge fund, which was designed to respond quickly to the challenges of the pandemic and economic development and to support citizens and businesses, expenditure of 78.4 billion dollars was financed. Costs were aimed at addressing urgent issues in the social sphere, increasing the capacity of the health system, stimulating the economy, ensuring the rule of law in the field of education, and partially repairing the expenditure under the reduced programme. In particular, the codofon provides assistance to 127 thousand FOP children in the amount of 1.3 billion dollars. 471,000 FOPs received 8,000 bracelets during the lockdown. Some 70,000 medical personnel received cadaverial supplements, medical equipment, including 200 HVL devices, 161 computer CTs, and 198 reception units were reconstructed. One and a half billion dollars were spent on providing oxygen to the health care facilities. A total of 600 million dollars were sent to purchase funds to protect participants in the educational process. For vaccination, 2 million doses of vaccines were purchased. It's in the 20th year. Despite the crisis and economic downturn, the Government's minimum wage was raised at the initiative of the President of Ukraine and the Government's programme. Pensions were indexed for 10 million pensioners, and a monthly compensation payment of 500 dollars was made to those citizens over 80 years of age. In the 20th year, 59 billion dollars were spent on public welfare payments. The expenditure of the consolidated health budget in the 20th year amounted to 176 billion dollars, nearly 50 billion dollars or 37 percent more than in 2019. This indicator is the highest in recent years and represents 4.2 percent of GDP. In the 20th year, the education budget was 253 billion dollars. In total, the resource amount was 6 per cent of gross domestic product. Paying more than 460,000 teachers in full wages. Over 17,000 children with special educational needs received quality education. Major capital investments have been made in the New Ukrainian School. The financing of the road sector is spent on 124 billion dollars, 2.5 times more than the previous year, representing 3 percent of GDP. There was also substantial support for citizens and businesses through the 5-7-9 program. Nearly 7.5 thousand credit agreements were made — 17.5 billion dollars. We have managed to create almost 10,000 jobs and save more than 121 thousand active ones. A new loan guarantee tool has been introduced. 17 percent cut into a loan portfolio for micro and small businesses. The interest rate on long - term loans also declined. The conditions for the implementation of the bilateral model of inter-budget relations in 2020 were created, and the overall financial resources in the region amounted to 161 billion dollars. National security and defence support was the highest in all of Ukraine's history, and it amounted to 249 billion dollars, 14 percent more than the previous year. In the end, I will note that when I become a finance minister, I understand clearly the strategic directions of work in this area. There was a road map, we did it carefully, we achieved macroeconomic stability in order to ensure further development of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u74	Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u75	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u76	Mr. Secretary, I'm not asking this question for the first time. Please tell us, many times, both you and the head of the State Tax Service have been contacted about the cancellation of the wrong debts owed to FOPs who were released last year from payment of a single tax by local government authorities. Sadly, though, the tax system failed to carry out its tasks and counted the wrong debts. I just recently received the latest feedback from the tax manager that a technological solution had finally been found. But when I talk to entrepreneurs, they often tell me that unfortunately, there is still a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u77	Dear national deputies, in fact, sometimes there are technical failures. We will, of course, study and correct the questions. I think these are just isolated cases, because for all of the FOPs last year, there was quite a lot of support, including 8,000 bracelets, which were already mentioned in my report. I'll take your question for personal control and decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u78	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, "Fatherland" faction, please. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u79	Minister! Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. One of the key requirements of our faction in the formation of the 20th-year reporting budget and the 21st-year budget was educational and medical subsidies. It's paid by the education community, the level guaranteed for the salaries of the medical staff. Please tell us, how did we come to the point that now, in most areas of Ukraine, teachers who are ready to leave or who are already on vacation have no opportunity to get the funds they have in their budget? Unfortunately, the same situation was in the budget of the previous year, for which you report. What is the key problem? How Can I Solve It? Because we all understand that without it, we can't keep moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to officially inform you that, as of January 1, 2020, there was no debt of earnings in the budget area. The problems you have identified are now carefully studied. We have an education grant reserve this year of 600 million dollars, and these funds will be used to address these issues in the areas where they came into being. The reason for these problematic issues is the inoptimal formula for the distribution of educational subsidies. Because unoptimized networks sometimes lead to some very small areas, these are a few isolated cases, not a mass situation, they cause such problems. We are now actively working with these areas. We are making an appropriate approach. I will responsibly state that the matter will be resolved in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u81	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u82	Surrender to Koltunovich, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u83	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich! Dear Mr. Minister! Your documents and those who entered the Supreme Council became familiar with them and listened intently to your report. First of all, a colleague who just handed me the word, Frost, from the Donetsk region, is interested in financing investment programs for the carbon economy. This time. The other one. After the payout debt has been overtaken. I think you know the problem. We are interested in when the matter will be resolved and settled. The other one. The third point about the state budget itself. And I'm interested in the issue of fiscal parity. When we talk to you about filling the budget for individual taxes and congregations, how did you assess how you affected, for example, reducing VAT from 20 percent to 14 percent? Or cancelling VAT for individual categories of citizens? Was it reflected last year, and how will it be reflected this year? Thank you for answering these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u85	Maybe I'll start with the last question about tax changes. You know that the Ministry of Finance is a consistent supporter of fiscal consolidation and the stability of the tax system. The impact of the changes you have noticed is not yet to be assessed. You'll be able to estimate a little later on the results of a few months. This is the year 2021. For questions about miners. You know, we're closing all the miners' issues. We're having a hard time because there's a misunderstanding, so let's say we have to finance the sector. But there's a problem with the social sphere of miners -- wages. And we're willing to provide as much as we can. In this case, I want to tell you that even though there is an appointment in the budget, we found an opportunity to make an approximation, it was done literally a month ago, and also these issues on the miners were closed, I don't see any particular problem in this. The issue of making order in the field really mature, and I think that with the arrival of the new minister you will be able to actively resolve these issues with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u86	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Please give the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u88	Geo Leros, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u89	Dear friends, yesterday I saw Andrew Jermak's report, hurting him for the Ukrainian congregation. I would like to apologize on behalf of Andria Jermak to the Russian Federation, because we all know that he represents exclusively their interests in Ukraine. He made a mistake, so if you'll excuse me, he'll be back soon. He'll send another special operation. Here's a question for you. The previous reporter, Mr. Galuchenko, said that the previous ministers had destroyed the energy sector, which is why we have major problems in this area. What did you personally as a minister do to preserve this sphere, and there was not such a violent situation in the field of energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u90	You know, the government and the minister of finance, and the former minister of finance, they didn't destroy it, they helped save the coal sector. That's my answer. And the money we found to pay the miners' wages, this confirmation. We found them last year, they're budgeted this year, and all of the mine issues we're going to find are going to be able to shut them down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u91	Thank you. Question time's up. Please sit down, Sergey Mikhailovich. The head of the Court of Auditors, Valeriy Vasilovich Packan, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u92	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government and invited! The Court of Auditors carried out a review of the implementation of the Law on the State Budget 2020 and concluded the relevant conclusions. I will briefly stop what has affected the implementation of the 2020 budget, is being observed this year and what is needed and should be taken into account in the budgeting for the following year. First. 2020 was a difficult year for our country. Under the COVID pandemic, the economy fell by 4 percent, by 9.5 percent, unemployment increased, and by 3.1 billion dollars, debt from wages reached the highest level since 2010. In response to the situation, Parliament has changed the state budget 17 times and, as a result, the main budget figures have changed considerably. This year, three changes have been made to the budget. The other one. The government did not approve the budget declaration for the first time, and the budget for 2020 was formed without strategic orientations. Third. The real income of the state budget decreased by 1.8 percent compared to the previous year. Individual incomes are not received at all, including 4.4 billion dollars for gambling licenses. As a result, this amount was not funded for the modernization of hospitals and schools. Four. 5 percent of the government budget, or 68 billion dollars, has not been implemented, is the largest since 2015. Inexpensive planning and improper ministerial work at the beginning of December left 93 billion dollars unutilized. During 2020, the government made 76 decisions on changes in expenditure under each fourth programme. According to individual budget programs several times this year, the government has already adopted 14 decisions on changes in expenditure. Fifth. In 2020, the government budget created a fund to fight COVID-19 in the amount of 65 billion dollars, which increased to 81 billion dollars over the year. The decision on the distribution of funds was made by the government. Inadvertent planning and timely decisions from the fund did not make use of 12 billion dollars. Some of the funds were sent in advance for goods that had not yet been delivered. Six. In 2020, the government budget deficit has been the largest in ten years, amounting to 218 billion dollars. The existence of a significant budget deficit leads to the movement of debt spirals. To implement the budget, the government borrowed 640 billion dollars. However, it is becoming more and more difficult for us to absorb funds on acceptable terms. The failure to find the projected cost led to the untimely execution of expenses. In May, November, and December, there were delays in paying for protected budget articles. Almost 50 percent of all unprotected December expenditure was spent after December 28, when the government managed to borrow funds. In the first quarter of 2021, no funds were available from government external loans. Thus, funds from a single treasury account were involved in financing the general government budget. Seven. In a year, the government’s debt and government - guaranteed debt increased by 28 percent and reached 2 and a half trillion dollars. Its services and repayment are targeted at 512 billion dollars, almost a third of the budget expenditure. Dear colleagues, think about it: In fact, every Ukrainian has 61,000 debts! For his service and payment, each of us paid $12,000,300 last year. The non-application of the restrictive rules of the Debt Budget Code makes the basic security of the State worse. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the proposals of the Court of Auditors will be taken into account in the implementation of the State Budget for the current year, which has been worked out and submitted by the Government of the Budget Declaration for this year, and in the preparation of the draft State Budget for 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Head of the Court of Auditors. The word is given by Pavelka Yuri Alexiyovich, a faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, please pass the word to Alexander Koltunovich, and thank the House of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to ask, first of all, an important question about the opaque costs, the capital costs that were in construction, the large construction, more specifically, if we're talking about budget articles, it's a road fund. One. Have you found the corresponding inaccuracies, perhaps differences? Because we have a lot of comments from the opposition that money is being used irrationally. One. One second. With regard to the SOVID-19 fund, we also know the facts that were shifting funds from this fund were also opaque wires. What is the fate of these things? Third. Questions about the President's funds. We've made changes here over and over and over and over and over and over again to projects and programs. Do you, as in the Court of Auditors, have any evidence that funds were also being used in an unearmarked way? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the last one. Because we have no direct appeal to the Court of Auditors regarding the use of funds from the President's funds. If so, we will then put them into our contingency plan and conduct audits. I'll try to unify the first two questions. We are now beginning to audit the SOVID-19 fund. This will include all the aspects, all the costs that were allocated to SOVID-19, including construction, medical supplements, utility payments, oxygen purchases, modernization of hospitals and everything. By the end of this year, the audit will be formed, and I am ready to invite the people's deputies to our meeting of the Court of Auditors and then to know directly, if necessary, the committees or even the Parliamentary Court of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u97	The word is given to the national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Please. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, the faction of "Fatherland, well, you understand perfectly when borrowing is 92 percent of what needs to be paid or vice versa, that means that the country has collapsed in default, and the pyramid that was built a few years after the DWP, and other borrowings have actually now come to its end. Do you always have recommendations that you would recommend to the government how to stop this actual path to the collapse of Ukraine's financial system due to constant borrowing and debt repayment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u99	Thanks for stopping. I just figured out here that, in fact, a third of last year's money was directed at interest on debt. I've also informed you that it's 2.5 trillion dollars. What Is Needed? We need external borrowing. If the government manages and borrows low interest rates, and we don't borrow from the internal market under domestic government bonds, then this situation can be settled. I'll tell you what. We have August-September critical. We have a debt return of 2.2 billion dollars. I think the government is now going to focus all its efforts on paying off those debts that our country of Ukraine has taken. And in order for us to borrow less, we need to increase the revenue side, we need to get the economy out of the shadow and fill the budget. I want to make a statement that, in fact, it's on July 1. On June 1st, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I think the tax has been overrun by 26 billion dollars, customs by 5.3 billion dollars. I hope that this trend towards the coming state budget will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u100	The word is given to National Deputy Kostenek Roman Vasilovich, political party "Golos", faction "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u101	Please pass it on to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u102	Jaroslav Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u103	Valeriy Vasilovich, thank you for the presentation, indeed, good material. I'd like you to talk to the Ministry of Finance more often. I think that would give you a lot of synergy. Continuation of the question. We have a lack of borrowing of more than 27 percent, 73.4 percent, if I'm not mistaken, we were able to borrow from what we planned. I fully agree with you that in August-September we have difficult times ahead, because we have a lot to pay. My question is very simple. What kind of budget deficit can we expect if, God forbid, the International Monetary Fund and our other international partners fail to provide us with a tranche so far? And what budget articles will primarily be under deficit, and what will the government actually do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u104	I still hope we get a tranche to settle the situation. Of course, what expense articles? These are all programs. I think the protected articles are going to stay, the wages and everything, and the programs can be stopped. But I hope it doesn't come by that time. I hope we can borrow money or increase the government budget, as I just informed you on customs and tax. It's up to us, and it's up to the government, the Ministry of Finance, to borrow money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u105	Thank you. That's the final question. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u107	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians, we have just heard the figures and should examine them in more detail. Minus 4 percent of the economy, minus 4 percent of GDP and plus 9.5 percent of unemployment. Mr. Prime Minister, why did you keep fooling people about the creation of 500,000 jobs if unemployment increased by a million jobs? Mr. Valeria, please tell me, this is the biggest budget deficit, can you at least analyze why we fell so badly during quarantine, the lokdowns, which are the areas you would like to hear from the finance minister? You don't have to talk about things that aren't there, you have to explain why it's happened, what's going on in order for us to understand that you're right. You said that information that we're not interested in. Give people full and reliable information about the economy in 2020, and then we'll understand you. And so it turns out to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u109	I'll start at the beginning. We're ready to provide the expanded information, a presentation that I've presented here today. I'm ready to send you and I'm ready to walk with you on either the committee, or within the walls of the Court of Auditors. 4 percent, this was all caused by the decline in the economy. In terms of, you know, just now, our biggest industries have started to work, started to export. Yes, indeed, the situation for today has begun. It's not because they all started to work perfectly, but because there's a combination of factors that led to an increase in revenue to the government budget. I think the Minister of Finance himself can make a bigger schedule. If necessary, we are ready to share with the Ministry of Finance in informing the people's deputies of why the economy has fallen. Our report is more detailed, more extensive. If necessary, I am willing to send it to you on a faction or a committee where it will be necessary. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u110	Thank you, Valery Vasilovich. Please take your place. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Yuri Yuriovich Aristov is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u111	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budget Affairs reviewed the government's report on the implementation of the State Budget for 2020, taking into account the findings of the Court of Auditors. The committee concludes with a detailed analysis of the report and the budget issues identified. In particular, it is appropriate to pay attention to such matters. The State Budget Act was adopted for the first time within a month and a half before the planned period began, but many changes were made during the year, mainly due to objective factors associated with COVID-19. As a result, the general parameters of the State Budget have changed significantly. The revised general fund income plan was overrun by nearly 19 billion dollars. This has been made possible both by reducing the corresponding planned rates and by improving the functioning of tax administrations. The state guarantees amount to 48.5 billion dollars, allowing for credit resources, including 23.5 billion dollars for construction and repair of thousands of kilometres of roads; 15 billion dollars for Krennergo's obligations and modernisation of the electricity network; 3 billion dollars for the purchase of airplanes by Antonov; almost 4 billion dollars for the support of small and medium-sized businesses through portfolio guarantee tools. In the second half of the year, there was a lack of a general fund resource due to the failure to implement the revenue plan, which involved considerable amounts of the single treasury account. It is therefore appropriate to improve the quality of monthly income and expenditure planning and to take steps to improve the liquidity of such an account. Expenditures from the General Fund amounted to 39 billion dollars less than budget assignments. Many of the expenditure in the planned amounts has been hampered by the timely approval of the procedures for the use of funds and passports by the chief administrators. A special feature of the state budget in 2020 was the creation of a COVID-19 fund, which enabled the government to respond quickly to the pandemic challenges. In total, the fund’s costs amounted to 66.5 billion dollars, or 82 percent of the plan. In particular, more than 19 billion dollars have been diverted from the fund to health care, including the purchase of HLC equipment, personal protection tools, oxygen supply, and increased medical wages. Nearly 16 billion dollars are for social protection in the area of assistance to entrepreneurs, unemployment relief, and temporary disability payments. 26 billion dollars is to stimulate the economy. The committee immediately considered the relevant decisions of the government and agreed on the results of the financial and economic analysis, taking into account the need for an urgent solution to the relevant issues. The receivable for general fund expenditure increased by 41 percent. Therefore, the issue of pre-payments for budgetary resources requires constant monitoring of the government and timely use of measures to ensure the effective management of the financial resources of the State. In addition, the issue is under constant control on the Committee on Budgets. In 2020, mostly in the second half of the year, the government adopted a large number of decisions on the redistribution of public budget expenditure. This is, on the one hand, a result of the poor quality of budget planning by the chief administrators and, on the other hand, the need for immediate response and more efficient use of limited funds in a volatile situation in the country in connection with COVID-19. Within the framework of parliamentary control, the committee actively engaged in the implementation of the State budget and systematically analysed the reporting indicators. In doing so, the committee dealt with the relevant issues in a timely manner and made recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministers to improve the use of the budget. In general, in implementing the state budget, the government responded adequately to the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic by making the necessary organizational and personnel decisions and, in general, coped with the task of limited international financial assistance. As a result of the government report on the implementation of the State budget, the Committee prepared a draft regulation 5612, which is proposed to take note of and provide the Cabinet of Ministers with a number of tasks to improve budget management in the current year and during the preparation of the draft budget for the following year. Thus, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council the outcome of the consideration of the report of the draft Decree 5612. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up for a statement from the MP factions and groups, please. The word is given to National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u113	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, certainly scrutinized the data and indicators that entered our Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the records of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance. They usually call it the budget, there's the development budget, there's the food. For me, it's a social asymmetry budget, a speculative capital budget, and a new loan budget. Let me explain why. First. Let's start with a record deficit of 217 billion dollars. That's a lot and that's more 2.7 times than it was in the 19th year. These are the records of the Auditorium. This year, it's 246 billion dollars -- even more -- and it can't help but worry at least from the point of view that macroeconomic architecture is unable to give Ukraine economic growth. The second moment is borrowing. Last year’s loans amounted to nearly 640 billion dollars. Imagine, if you compare with the income of the budget, that's almost 60 percent -- 640 billion dollars. Third moment. Some authorities and Kabina are very fond of telling them that they owe their debts and that they need to borrow so much. In fact, the amount that was returned there last year to serve the state and state-guaranteed debt amounted to only 512 billion dollars. So we borrowed 640 and 512 returned. As a result, government and state-guaranteed debt increased in the dollar equivalent of $84 billion to $90 billion. It's only in one year. It's now 91.5 billion, and we realize that this debt-gathering doctrine is going to continue, which is really unacceptable to us. One more moment. It's an internal government loan bond scheme. For you, the fact is that domestic borrowing in Ukraine is much more than external borrowing. If we're talking about GDP in the structure of spending from the holding, 62.2 percent is going to go into repayment of GDP itself. The average income is 12 percent. To be exact, 12.3 percent. But the VAT is not taxed. If we're going, the cumulative tax burden on the labor fund is 41.5 percent, it's about the EU, it's about other taxes, it's about congregations, it's from this point of view, we have completely untaxed indicators. One more moment. Expenses were not met — minus 5 percent. I would also like to point out that local budgets and inter-budget transfers have decreased. These are all parameters that indicate that such a budget does not give Ukraine the future and the resources to modernize Ukraine. I don't think the report can be accepted. And the minister has to resign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u114	The word is given by Speedy Annie Constantinen, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u115	Please give it to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u116	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, everyone knows and every Ukrainian knows that the wallet and our budget depend on our work and our expenses. Likewise, with our budget, our country's budget, everything depends on the government's work and their spending on what they're letting go of. And what do we see? With regard to government work, we can remember their promise that our economy will grow by 40 percent in five years. That promise was broken. And although the government has been reformulated, most of them are here in the hall and in the government district. As for their expenses. We all understand that under the Constitution of Ukraine we are a socially oriented state. But what do we see? We see a disgraceful living minimum, which our government has not raised, we see a disgraceful pension of 1 thousand 760 dollars, for which it is impossible to live. We see that our government has told us about the reform and creation of gas markets, electricity, but what our President said is that these reforms, when payments are multiplying and increasing, are driving our pensioners and driving our citizens even more into poverty. Instead, what do we see? We see ways that would, in principle, help them solve all these questions. It's corruption, it's equipment in state-owned enterprises, it's in national state-owned companies, it's in ministries. And this isn't about the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and this is about, for example, all of these loud scandals, when someone is released from some kind of department of profile, they're talking about equipment, corruption, and there's no investigation, there's no action on your part. And I also want to let you know that, for example, about the salaries of all of these, let's say, useless employees of supervisory boards or heads of state enterprises that have eaten hundreds of millions of dollars during the 20th year. And they keep doing it. For example, yesterday, NAC Naftogaz assigned their government members a monthly salary of 1 million 370,000 dollars, and each member of the Supervisory Board of 533 thousand dollars per month. It's going on now. Dear government, you can change that, you still have six months this year. You can go back face to business to pay taxes, they want our country to flourish. You can go back face to face with our pensioners, to our budgeters and really work for our citizens, because you gave them an oath from this rostrum to work for them. And please draw conclusions from the House of Auditors, because the figures that were here are very embarrassing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u118	The word is given to National Deputy Arthur Gerasimov, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainians! For two years, the Zelensky presidency was a major blow to the domestic economy. This is confirmed by the figures. Those who promised to grow the economy by 40 percent had overturned it before the epidemic started. And it looks like they don't know how to stop this fall, not Green or its surroundings. What we see is the decline in industrial production, the decline in GDP, the rise in unemployment, the underfunding of key expenditures, especially in the needs of education, medicine, local self-government, social policy. For example, government budget expenditure has been reduced by nearly 68 billion dollars. There's been a financial blow on local communities. Although they had a major burden on them to fight the pandemic. The budget for transfers to local budgets in the 20th year is nearly 5 billion less than the plan. According to the Court of Auditors, the budget lacks nearly 75 billion dollars of income, although the government reports that the revenue plan has been overturned. The inefficient management of the Antiquities Fund, the theft of funds on "the Great Stealing" is already an illustration in the tongues. We see a failure to execute state defence orders, a collapse of defence and security reforms. The purchase of new Ukrainian armament, Neptune, Stugna, Goddana, has been broken. Construction programs for ammunition, conglomerates for the military have been compiled. Food reform in the army has been halted. The companies we passed on to the new government in the 19th year became profitable in two years. As they talk about fighting oligarchs and their monopolies, the damage to the holdings last year cost 65 billion dollars. Although back in the 19th year, they were making 73 billion profits. Then we know the price of Green Bath is minus 138 billion dollars. We're seeing an increase in the holding stock as a result of unfavourable borrowings and the failure of cooperation with international financial institutions. The total government and state-guaranteed debt increased by almost $554 billion! Our team, which received a country of 108 thousand in the 14th year, knows exactly how to stop the collapse that Ukraine is in today's power. First of all, we need to create new jobs, preserve existing jobs, and strengthen social protection. The other one. It is necessary to stop the looting of businesses so that they can become profitable again. Third. There is a need to reduce the cost of anchoring, giving, and forcing these social protection costs, such as subsidies. Four. It is necessary to destroy the tax scales in which the authorities run the small and medium-sized business and in which the entire middle class is held hostage. In turn, this whole complex will allow for higher wages and pensions. And most importantly, raise salaries for the military. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u120	The word is given to the People's Deputy Pusharenko, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u121	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We heard the finance minister's report. We heard what my colleagues were just speaking to me. Of course, there's a difference between budget execution and budgeting today, but you have to look the truth in the eye. I want to point out what our country is in today's seventh year. We're talking about that only Ukraine's economy has started to come to terms with those turbulent and tragic events in 2014 and 2015, when we lost much of our industry in Donbas, when we lost the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and were able to find ways in the internal market to compensate for this and started to level things up, we got the world pandemic that hit, understood that not only Ukraine, but it also affected the whole world. Under the conditions in which our economy worked throughout the year 2020, of course, like the world economy, these were difficult circumstances and difficult conditions. So with the indicators that Mr. Schmigal's government entered in early 2020, and I want to remind you that it was both a decline in the economy and a failure to implement the budget, a 44 billion-dollar gap and the absence of a program, your colleagues, you remember that, and we've discussed with you on a number of occasions both at factions and at meetings with the Prime Minister, the absence of an IMF program. We see what was done in the 20th year in those difficult conditions of our economic power of the world. We see that the decision has been made with you and the minimum wage has tripled. You know, it was September, it was January. And this year it's going to go up another 500 bucks. So in general, at the initiative of the President, you and I have raised the minimum wage by 1.5 thousand dollars, and this is where this process ends. You and I have been able to support our FOPs under these conditions. And that was a once-in-a-lifetime support, and a second time support. And we're seeing with you today how we're getting into the Big Building of the Economy, how many companies are working. In addition, 30,000 jobs have been created, where investments are now entering and how they are developing. Because 1 bracelet into the road infrastructure is the 1st bracelet of 60 copies into the economy. So, honourable colleagues, what those who spoke to me about failures, about everything else, are speculations and manipulations. Because the defense budget has grown, the education budget has increased. If we're talking about medical infrastructure and medical development today in the medical field, you see what resources are being allocated, and COVID gave this a boost. So I ask you to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u122	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u123	Please give it to Inni Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u124	Other Sussoon. Susun, please. Where's Inna Romanovna? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u125	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank both the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Court of Auditors for the reports presented. We've heard reports on what the Ukraine budget was in 2020, and also from the finance minister, we've now heard the situation about how the economy of Ukraine is now developing and what are the problems in it. I want to focus not so much on the issues that are related to 2020, but on the trends that are now and today. So what's the point? First. We actually have an increase in government budget revenue by 5 percent compared to what was planned. This is generally positive. But what is the problem? We have a problem that has been identified by the Head of the Court of Auditors since last year: we continue to make insufficient use of the money that is already in the state budget. This year’s expenditure gap is almost 8 percent. What does that mean? That money has gone into the budget, we have it, we have budgetary programs, but we don't use it, and the priority of using money remains very unclear. I don't understand why the government finds 800 million dollars to pay to the police, and it doesn't find 800 million dollars to provide oxygen to Ukrainian hospitals. I don't understand why, for the first time in almost 10 years, the existence of an external independent evaluation of the TNP has not been allocated enough money to ensure the independence of the work. This is a question of what are the priorities of our budget expenditure. Two structural problems that have remained since the 20th and today in the state budget. Problem one, we really use 15 percent of the revenue to pay off the debt. Similarly, we spend a large portion of our money to compensate for the underexpenditure of the Pension Fund. These problems need a structural solution, and they cannot be solved by populist slogans that we let someone down their wages and pay someone. Friends, for the economy to work, you have to give it a chance to work. Instead of directing all the money into the state budget, allowing small, medium-sized businesses to work first. Instead of making a list of oligarchs, work to make the system less monopolized and, in fact, develop an economy in Ukraine. And we won't do any of that if we don't do the things that all investors in Ukraine are talking about. It's a judicial reform, it's an anti-monopoly committee reform, it's a reform of corporate governance in the public sector, it's the kind of thing that we have to keep in mind and work so that the Ukrainian economy actually works and creates prosperity for the state and for individual Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u126	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Head, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". The report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2020 is an indicator of our daily life with you last year. This year was unforgivable, there was a pandemic, there was a coronavirus, and yet, thanks to you, Mr. Minister, your ministry, some steps have been taken and some results have been achieved. Although you and I have had many assignments this year. Here are the findings of the Court of Auditors regarding the implementation of the budget. As the Head of the Court of Auditors pointed out, an overly large number of loans, 640 billion dollars. And what's more, domestic borrowing is much higher than external borrowing, it's a very negative trend. So you need to look for funds at low interest rates in international monetary organizations, and you also need to increase the revenue, of course, by increasing taxes from big business. And you also have to say 218 billion government deficits, that's too large a number. Although last year’s projected budget deficit was 7.5 percent, last year’s deficit dropped and accounted for 5.2 percent. Here you are, Mr. Minister, and your ministry has been working, and we thank you for that, because we have a real result. But together with you, we have to strengthen our joint work, both legislative and executive, in order to make our budget even better this year and, basically, implement it, especially in the social sphere. So we have to take care of the salaries of our military advocates, our medical defenders, who we thank for their titanium work, especially on the eve of their professional holiday. And we need to make sure that they are highly valued and highly paid for their work. We also need to take care of the wages of our teachers along with you. And already this year, you have to find the funds to increase education subsidies, because we should not allow schools to be closed in villages in newly formed communities. So what I'm asking you to do is find the money, add the money to our education fees, and actually improve the budget, and we recommend that you increase the income part of our budget by taxes on big business rather than moving our FOPs. I think it's best. We wish you success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u128	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u129	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, minus 4 percent of GDP, unemployment has already reached 1 million, and production has been declining gradually since 2019, including investment, for example, in my agricultural sector by 12 percent. Since June, you've raised tariffs or the price of gas for people, now they have to pay more than 11,000 for a thousand cubes. You still haven't returned 100 kilowatts. The green energy debt is only increasing, although you've signed a memorandum and you're not doing it, and this year it's already accumulated debt. The land market you hope for will not yield the desired result by the end of the year. Internal investment, particularly in the agricultural sector, will be slowed down as agrarians raise funds to buy this land. Banks are spending more and more money on GDP than they are investing in the Ukrainian industry. The Localization Act is never adopted. Salary debt increased by 47 percent and reached 3.2 billion. In state-owned enterprises alone, 1.1 billion. It hasn't been like this since the 2000s. Just think, Naftogaz is minus 18 billion. The railway is minus 12 billion. And that's where the oversight boards are, with the corresponding colossal wages. So what do you want to raise the economy for? What makes you want to create the 500,000 jobs you were talking about? We need to review transfers to local budgets, they're down compared to past years. We need to review the medical subsidy. And by education, by education, please implement the Education Act. Three minimum wages -- that's what the law says, so we adopted educational reform. And if you don't look at socio-economic politics, the policy that "Paternity" is always talking about, you'll never be able to fill the budget. And the age of poverty will never end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the national MPs. That's up to six minutes. And please invite a colleague to the hall, because after that we're going to the vote. In six minutes, the ruling will be voted on. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u131	Dear friends, I remember very well when the first government was appointed, right after the election, the Fatherland faction asked a key question. And that was the question: what are you going to do with external and domestic government debt? If the government doesn't solve this issue, we'll actually find ourselves in the 21st, 22nd years in a situation of total financial chaos. Everyone has promised to come out with proposals to parliament to settle this issue. The same question was asked today's Prime Minister: what you will do with the external and internal debt, how you see the solution to this question. Well, how can you plan the state's financial plan if it's clear that without external loans that have actually become transit, you've borrowed -- given away, borrowed -- away. The economy gets zero financial resources, the social sphere actually survives. So the key question that is still before the state is what to do with debt restructuring. Unfortunately, the situation involved in the restructuring of debts was merely a delay in financial death. What's next? Well, there can't be a state living in conditions where it only expects loans that we can't pay in time if the state starts to run the economy properly, stimulate business, collect taxes. You think about it: the state can't pay off debt in a timely manner, even if the economy is growing. How could such a covenant be signed? And the government is silent. One government kept silent, resigned. The next government found itself in this exact situation. Well, let's hold a closed session of Parliament with the participation of the government, with the participation of the President, and frankly tell each other how to move forward. Well, a state can't be held hostage for so many years to debt obligations that are really unrestructed, and we understand that, which are simply deferred and which lie on every citizen of Ukraine, and on every government today, on every finance minister. This is the first part of my speech, and I continue to ask for another two minutes, which my colleague kindly gave me. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u132	Please turn on three more minutes instead of Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u133	Now, actually, the description of the 2020 budget. Yes, this budget could not be implemented without external borrowing. And the figure announced by the Head of the Court of Auditors is that it is the largest ten-year loan, well, both the government and the Parliament and the committee of profile should be alerted. For us, for the Fatherland faction, there are priorities that we should work for. And when it comes to waste, when spending money on the budget is completely out of the budget, it's not for the purpose of the budget, it's actually a country, and it's in a situation of financial collapse and chaos. So that's more like a 2021 adjustment request. You see, both Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Finance, trends, threatening trends in the state’s budget. Soon the entire budget will be covered exclusively by borrowing. What's next? How will the country live in these conditions? What are the incentives for the economy if everyone understands that the less you pay taxes, the less you get borrowed. I think that there should be an open conversation in these circumstances, which is the key question, how does the second half of 2021 continue to form? What adjustments should be made immediately? And what do we do in preparing the budget in 2022? Because it's going to be the hardest budget and it's going to depend solely on the goodwill of our creditors or how much more GDP you sell and what percentage. So this is actually a call for one: we need to make a budget week for the budget in 2022 and the budget adjustment this year, drawing all the conclusions from the budget in 20th year. That's why we're offering it. There is no resolution to be adopted, for if we approve the resolution to be accepted, what does it know that the country is total? That the country lives in debt? On the contrary, the resolution must be clear and straightforward. Without solving the issue of real restructuring and repayment of external debt, the country will not be able to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption as a whole of the bill proposed by the Committee, registration number 5612, on the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:20:40]] For 232 Decision taken. I've ruled on it as a whole. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine (registration number 3711-d). The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Puziczuk, number six. Don't insist. He insists. 6 edits, Puziyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, you know, we're looking at such a very interesting bill today. Here's a rhetorical question I'd like to hear from the head of the profile committee. Please tell me why the High Council of Justice are you planning to assemble with foreigners? Tell me, will there not be six decent, honest, professional people in Ukraine? Why do you today place your country, including justice under full external administration? Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I'm addressing you. You'll be able to communicate with a colleague during the break. Explain to our fellow citizens what are you motivated to do in the field of external justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u136	I'm betting on the vote number 6 of Puziyczuk. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:22:54]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next thing you know, Kulinich. Don't insist. Puziczuk, 8th row.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexandrovich, Parliament is a place of discussion. And please give the committee head the opportunity to answer, explain the position of both his personal and the committee. And once again, it's a simple question. Ladies and gentlemen, say, 35 million people in our country, in the opinion of the committee, do not have six honest, decent, professional people who can form the High Council of Justice and re-establish the court, engage in judicial reform? Explain why you are trying to involve foreigners in this process. Thank you. I want to hear a professional answer, like all citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u138	I'm betting on the vote number eight. The committee is not supported. So please identify and vote. [[12:24:21]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 9th Amendment, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I see the committee's head is very eager to respond, he's coming back to you, asking for his word. Allow the head of the committee to explain to the citizens of Ukraine why he believes that a commission should be formed from foreigners. I repeat my questions. Does the committee head say that there are not six honest, decent, professional people in Ukraine? It's a simple question, an explanation. In fact, citizens turn and it causes a big, you know, misunderstanding in society. Explain, perhaps we, your colleagues, can understand what you are motivated by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Parliament is a place for discussion, so let us go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote on Puzichuk number nine. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:25:47]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next revision is once again by Andrija Viktorovich Puziyczuk. Amendment number 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you know, now I'm just going to show both the hall and the citizens how we're having a discussion. Here comes my time. I'm just going to pretend that I'm going to report my amendment like the committee head does. And this looks like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u142	Thank you for finishing. Let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u143	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u144	I'm betting on the vote number 10. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Reporting position, not sitting silently, right? That's what it says. [[12:26:44]] Z-62 Z-63. There is no solution. Dear colleagues, we don't have time. We have the time of the Supreme Council and the people of Ukraine. Next line is number 12 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u145	Dmitri Alexanderovich! Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you limit my constitutional right to speak in the Supreme Council. It was my time you took me away for a report. And the main question is that we want to hear the answer. It's disrespectful to both us and to the head of the committee you're restricting to inform the committee's position. This is a violation of the Rules. I will have to file a motion for a violation of the Rules and order the repeal of this bill. Including this would be another reason for referring to the Constitutional Court. Because bills that have been adopted in violation of the Rules are subject to repeal. Please answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u146	I know very well about the right to speak constitutionally, and there was no such thing as silence. I just looked. I'll bet you vote number 12. Please identify and vote. [[12:28:20]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Demchenko, 11th row.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u147	Guys, could I have your attention for a moment? The relevant bill regulates not only the possible restoration of the Higher Qualification of Judges, but also the general nature of the judicial system. First of all, the corresponding article, to which I propose an appeal, suggests that the courts, including the Supreme Court, be eliminated. We have the Constitutional Court of Ukraine repeatedly established that the Supreme Court is a constitutional body that cannot be eliminated. Another position, unfortunately, was wrong in previous laws that were declared unconstitutional. I propose in this article that you add in parentheses (except the Supreme Court). So we will have the possibility of eliminating any court except the Constitutional Authority, the Supreme Court, which is defined by the Constitution. Colleagues, please support this amendment, it's important enough for us to have a face that fits our current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u148	I'll bet you vote number 11. The committee is partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[12:30:01]] For-82 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u149	12:30 is not a break. It's a question, dear colleagues. Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u150	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the following from the presidency of the Supreme Council: the 25th anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine on June 28th. Thus, the Supreme Council organizes a series of measures, including a wide range of actions from the Education Center for the Promotion of the Day of the Constitution. And we're also going to have 28 numbers, and we're going to have corresponding celebrations. At 10 a.m., there'll be a ceremony at the Square of the Constitution with a solemn flag lift. At 11 p.m., there will be a special session with the participation of the first persons of the State, deputies of the second vocation who have accepted the Constitution, deputies of the present vocation. At 20 o'clock in the evening, we're counting on classical music. And then on the 3D light show from our international partners. We'd like you to join in the promotion of Constitution Day, so it's not just any weekend, it's a real holiday for every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you. Now let's move on to our questions. Thus, 110 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. Of these: to the President of Ukraine 13; to the Supreme Council 4; to the Cabinet of Ministers 45; to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government bodies 42; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership 6. Since last plenary week, 57 parliamentary requests remain unannounced. A total of 167 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. So, honourable colleagues, there is an open-ended roll vote in support of Valery Zuba's request to the President of Ukraine for a People's Day in Ukraine with a history of cancer. Please vote. [[12:32:31]] For 273 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to send Valery Zuba's pre-supported request to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of People's Day in Ukraine with a history of cancer. Please vote. [[12:33:03]] For 278 Decision taken. A roll-call vote is taken to support Galina Vasilchenko's request to the President of Ukraine to rename the names of the judicial authorities by removing the names of Communist symbols and naming them according to valid names of cities, regions in cities, districts, and areas. Please vote. [[12:33:42]] For 215 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:34:07]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request by Rostislav Tistik to the President of Ukraine for the transfer of premises and territories to the property of the religious community and the Metropolitan Andrey Šeptické Museum in Lviv. Please vote. [[12:34:47]] For 261 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:14]] For 265 Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Anna Speedhod's request to the President of Ukraine for a solution to the problems in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:39]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[12:36:20]] For 115 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Medianika, Monastery, Pavluca) to the President of Ukraine for the establishment of a professional festival - State Bureau of Investigation. Please vote. [[12:36:56]] For 207 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:37:23]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at an open-ended vote in support of Geo Leros' request to the President of Ukraine to join the sanctions list, against which Ukraine imposed sanctions on 2 April 2021, top smugglers: Illy Pavluka, Sergei Badjak, Igor Kaletnik, Vitalia Buluk, Alexandra Aksta, Vadima Slusarev, who may be financed by the Office of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:38:23]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we continue, you are very productive in your work on requests, please pay attention for a moment. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of Elizabeth Bogacka to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to the Ukrainian officer in charge of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent, Mikola Verhogled (later). Please vote. [[12:39:06]] For 282 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:39:30]] For 297 Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request by the President of Ukraine for citizenship by ATO and OSS Nadirade Ivana Ricardo Ricardowich. Please vote. [[12:40:04]] For 226 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:40:28]] For 231 Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Alexi Leonov's request to the President of Ukraine to improve the cooperation of the authorities of the Ukrainian State Tax Service and the Ukrainian National Deputies, aimed at filling Ukraine's State Budget. Please vote. [[12:41:02]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm not commenting on the questions, I'm reading them -- you support them, or you don't support them. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:41:28]] For 229 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kachury, Yasko, Kabachenko) to the President of Ukraine for the restoration of the Priasov region air force. Please vote. [[12:42:00]] For 270. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:42:23]] For 270. Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a group of national deputies (Buymester, Kucherenka, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the need to establish the causes of NEK Krennergo's damage in 2020, which puts Ukraine's energy system at risk with the continental European energy system, which has been defined as one of the country's key strategic objectives for the coming years, at the risk of appropriate response measures. Please vote. [[12:43:17]] For 232 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:43:41]] For 223 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a request from a group of national deputies (Chernyeva, Kostenka, and others). A total of 10 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of the Cheikh Mansour battalion into the sanctions list. Please vote. [[12:44:16]] For-187 Decision taken. It is up to the voting on the referral decision in advance. Oh, we don't have him. Show the factions, please. Once again, please show a previously supported query in factions. I'm talking about introducing the fighters, putting the request on the sanctions list. The factions saw how they supported it? Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm reading the question of how he was made by the national deputies. Once again, I put to the vote the decision to send a previously supported parliamentary request to a group of national deputies (Chernyeva, Kostenko, and others). A total of 10 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of the Cheikh Mansour battalion into the sanctions list. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[12:45:41]] For-166 The decision is not taken. These are all parliamentary requests to the President, honourable national MPs. [[12:47:13]] So, respectable national MPs, your questions. Alexander Bakumov to the temporary duty of head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Kharkiv District State Administration, director of the state-owned Kharkish Roads Company for the repair of the road to the general use of the local value of O-210823 Old Salt-Otva-Otkotne in the Kharkiv region. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the reduction of the electricity tariff. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the head of the Ravens ’ State Administration regarding the dismantling of the monument of Semin Patolichev in the village of Mirostje of the Plains region. Sergei Vlasenka to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on possible conflicts of interest and other violations of legislation by a member of the Supervisory Board of the State concert "Ucroborinprom" Timofi Milovanov. Sergey Shahova to Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the All-U.S. Public Organization of the Federation of Hockey Ukraine. Vladimir Ariev to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the reasons for the baseless inclusion of the volunteers of the Sheikh Mansour Battalion in the list of persons subject to restrictive measures. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head for the approval of the Gorikhova Hai Park. July Lighthouse to the temporary duty of head of the National Health Service of Ukraine to ensure payment to KNP medical personnel of the Losovian Territorial Medical Union of the Los City Council of Kharkiv Region for April 2021. Alexander Kunicko to the Attorney General, the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, for the improper response of the Chief of the Police Department and for the violation of law enforcement by police officers. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district government for the completion of the second round of land crossing construction between the KNP units "Slavutska Central District Hospital". Alexander Guerrega to the finance minister of Ukraine for the organisation and financing of the European Football Championship in Ukraine on 23rd year. Sergey Severin to the head of the Dnipropetrovska District Administration for the capital repair of the O-041405 road (Gavilovka Ivanovka-Novopolovlka). Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, heads of the Lviv District State Administration for the provision of adequate living conditions and protection for residents of the villages of Volitsa, Tstenec, Šegini Lvivsk region, who suffer from a large number of trucks, which are in turn across the state border of Ukraine in the streets of these settlements. People’s Deputies ( The rifle, Kuzmin, and others. A total of 5 deputies) to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Žitomir District State Administration, for the use of urgent measures in the reconstruction of the Korostišev Public Education School of the I-II District of Žitomir. Groups of National Deputies (Kuzminka, Kuzminy, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Žitomir District Council on the use of urgent measures to prevent the occurrence of an environmental disaster in connection with the uncontrollable and chaotic formation of illegal landfills of stonework waste in the territory of the Korostoshi district of the united territorial community of the Žitomir region. Helen Copanczuk to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to provide partial unemployment payments for the period of quarantine. Anatolya Kostuj to the head of the management of the private shareholders association Kyiv Regional Electricity Company, Director General of the shares association Vinciaoblanergo, Director General of the private shareholding company CHMELNICOBLENERGO, Head of the shareholders association Žitomiroblenergo, Head of the government of the public shareholders association Chercasioblanergo, on the procedure for the integration of new subscribers into electricity networks. Igor Guza as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Volin District State Administration, temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of excluding KNP "Novolin Central City Hospital" from the list of supported "codifying" medical facilities. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Volin District State Administration, temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine on the need to ensure a quality level of funding for KNP Lokachin Hospital under the Program of Health Guarantees for the 21st year. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an immediate solution to the problem of payment of annual lump sum payments by 5 May, according to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Igora Negulewski to the State Enterprise "The Administration of the Seaports of Ukraine", the Private Shareholders Association "The Ukrainian Danube Paropovia", the State Enterprise "Bilgrade-Dnistrovski Sea Trade Port", the State Enterprise "Mariopolski Sea Trade Port", the Private Shareholder Society "Ginwanst factory specialisesobion", the State Enterprise "The Sea Trade Port "Cornomorsk", the State Enterprise "The Sea Trade Port "Southern", the State Enterprise "Odeska Sea Trade Port", the State Enterprise "Micholai Sea Trade Port" for information. Igor Negulewski to the State Enterprise Bilgorod-Dnistrov Sea Trade Port regarding the provision of information. Igora Gerasimenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the state of practical implementation of the Ukrainian Anti-Action Act. Anton Polakova is head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection on blocking the work of Ukrainian State Service employees on food safety and consumer protection. Anton Polakov to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the possible illegal privatization of the state enterprise. Alexia Zmerenecki to the head of the Kyiv District Attorney's Office for information on the activities of the religious community Light of Life. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for failure to execute a court decision Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General on the enforcement of the law by the prosecutor. Groups of National Deputies (Boyka, Yooffe, Danube) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the lack of adherence by the Rector of the Eastern Ukrainian National University of Vladimir Dal of the recommendations made by the Ministry of Education and Science aimed at the development of educational processes and the inadmissibility of creating grounds for the actual elimination of the Institute of Chemical Technology. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to make contracts for further medical care between the KNP of the CMR "Conotapian Central District Hospital of the name of the Academy of Davidov" and the National Health Service of Ukraine. Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the leadership of the State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone, which has resulted in the unjustified use of government baskets and the strengthening of dependence on the Russian Federation on nuclear and radiation security that threatens Ukraine's national security. Geo Leros to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the leadership of the State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone, which resulted in the unjustified use of government baskets and the strengthening of dependence on the Russian Federation on nuclear and radiation security that threatens Ukraine’s national security. Elizabeth Yasko and Samantha Bobrowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of the completion of construction and reconstruction of military infrastructure. Sergia Shahova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of the natural environment of the region of Chernigiv. Marina Bardinoy to the Attorney General on the issue of bringing a judge into disciplinary responsibility. Marijana Bezugola to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on some issues of the Municipal Institute of Higher Education of the Kyiv Academy of Arts and the Kyiv Children's Academy of Arts called M.I. Chembergs. Artema Cnermoorova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the review of the appeal of the Public Organization "ECO (ECOLOGY, CULTURA, EDUCATION) I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, for the conclusion of an additional agreement between the NEC "Energot" and the "BCP CBD" "to work after the completion of the construction of the Central Repository of Spent Nuclear Fuel" for about 1 billion dollars, possibly violating the requirements of the Public Procurement Act. Geo Leros to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the diversions to the Hmelnicka AES, which were carried out by officials of the NEC "Energoatoma", and the absence of the official conclusions of the Commission on investigating the causes of the damage to TG-1 to Hmelnicka AES. Taras Batenka to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the debt of charity and public organizations to Naftogaz Warl. Taras Batenka is temporarily acting as Director-General of the Association of Shareholders for the transfer to the Medical Village Council of the Drobic district of Lviv district of the non-residential area of the children's preschool facility. Antonina Slavicki to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Attorney General's Office, regarding the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts presented in the address of Dmitri Yegornka regarding the illegality of State control bodies. Igora Krivosheev to the Attorney General on the pre-trial investigation of illegal mining of the sand and gravel mixture. Michael Bondar to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region to ensure Bakalo R.M.'s right to receive one-time cash assistance. Michael Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the issue of the construction of a 48-family building on H.Hrapaya Street, military town No. 1, in the city of Brody Lviv district. Victor Black to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the accredited Press Service of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for media, journalists and technical workers. Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the diversions to the Hmelnicka AES, which were carried out by the officials of DP "NAEC "Energoat", interested in changing the direction of Ukraine's cooperation in the energy field, and the absence of official conclusions from the Commission on the investigation of the causes of TG-1 damage to HR "Hmelnicka AES" DP "NAEC "Energoat". Vladimir Timothychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunding of KNP "Verhovina Multi-Profession Hospital of the Supreme Village Council". Vladimir Timothychuk to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the illegal cessation of gas supply in the village of Rožnev in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Oleg Kolev to the Odessa City Head about complaints from citizens about the quality of roads and sidewalks in the Malinov district of Odessa. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the production of orthopedic shoes for children with disabilities. Irina Konstankevich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy for the Use of Accountants and/or Program Accountants. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the creation of a day-care centre for persons who have suffered domestic violence and/or gender-based violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-18-m0.u151	Thank you, Olena Constantine. Thank you, Your Honor. The plenary session is closed.
