ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u1	Honorable National Deputies, in response to the requirement of 153 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules, we are holding today’s extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. You are presented with a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. Please prepare for the electronic registration of the people's deputies, and I remind them that after the start of the registration, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the green "za" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[16:06:43]] There are 214 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, you've been given an order of the day, but I understand that from this order of the day we have ready for consideration. One second, one second, because some of them aren't included, I'll ask you one second. Then we will take turns because the first bill passed is ready. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. From the procedure? Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u2	Your Honor, we have no Speaker of the Supreme Council, no law will be signed. We need to put the session to a vote and not ask any questions. There is no speaker, no new one is selected, and the performer has no right to sign. You have no right to sign laws. We need to close this session and go back after choosing a speaker to all the questions. We don't have the opportunity to deal with any of these issues right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u3	Let's all get out of the procedure then. I'm just asking these things early to get me. Arthur, please. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u4	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! You know, we need to teach the game. There is such a thing as the continuity of power, so read the Rules: If there is no Head, his duties are performed by the first Vice - Speaker; then, if he is unable to perform his duties, he is acting as Parliamentary Speaker, even if he is the deputy head of Parliament. If that's not possible, there is an ad hoc procedure when the chairman is elected from among the deputies in certain cases. So we can calmly continue to hold meetings under the chairmanship of the first vice-speaker. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u5	Iron, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u6	Dear friend Andrey! First, in the history of Ukraine there was already, when there was no speaker -- and no big deal, then the laws were signed. And second of all, I don't really share your pessimism that Parliament's head won't be elected, for example, tomorrow. That's why nothing bad happened, and I think the Parliament can work right now. Colleagues have already said that according to the Rules we now have the first vice-speciesman, so we continue to consider all the bills in accordance with the order of the day that was determined. I didn't sign this off-limits session as a national MP present, and I think all colleagues already have respect for those initiators and laws, and for the extra-curricular session to work out the entire agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u7	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u8	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Fellow believers, have a conscience! Three and a half thousand people were now under Kabmin, and Kabmin is negotiating with them under social laws. The two social laws in the first reading will not be adopted as a whole. It's about the social protection of citizens who have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster, and the second bill is about ensuring the modernisation of pensions. Well, what are we talking about? Let's quickly vote in the first reading in 20 minutes and show the citizens that we can really adopt social laws. Not the way people stand and say that Parliament fully accepts antisocial things. Colleagues, what are we talking about? First reading. Please let us begin the session and vote directly for the relevant laws signed by 150 national deputies. You're being begged by those unions that were standing under the Kabmin today. There were all of them: there were medics, there were educators, there were miners, there were all of them. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich, and after that. And who? And Natalia Yuriovna, right? Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u10	With great respect, I refer to my colleagues who insist on the importance of the issues that we now have to consider. But if someone wants to get what happened two weeks ago, when we got together and had to vote on important laws on natural persons entrepreneurs, and what ended up, you know. You want to ruin important drafts on pension insurance, on the rights of the Chernobyl people and all that? Let us then enter, knowing in advance that there are no votes. We're proposing a signal vote. If there are no 226 votes in the room, these are important questions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u11	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u12	The next session has been announced; there is an order of the day. Obviously, we are discussing issues that are considered by the committee, those that have not been considered, we are not considering. There are two questions. What do we fear to consider with short or complete procedure? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you're in charge of the fear of not adopting these laws. If they are accepted in this room, they will be signed by the new Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, do not flee from the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, I have 244 cards inserted. So let's do it then. Let's talk about how we're going to do this. Do you want a signal vote? For what? [[B in m in s a l in]] By procedure, please, Vlasenko. And then we'll think that. And Germany from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u14	Dear Sir, it was announced that there was an emergency session, not a session, some colleagues there, a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The chairman announced the opening of such a meeting. The sitting is open, the agenda is given to the people. If anyone wants to stop an emergency session, vote 226 on it -- and then stop. If not, we shall continue the meeting. Everything in the Rules is in operation under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u15	Yes, Germano Vasil Ivanovich. And then we move on to the agenda. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, you remember that when we were working on the FOPs, I handed over to the presiding decision of the Constitutional Court, which had been adopted since October 20, in the distant year 2002, as to whether the authority of the Supreme Council was determined. Legal authority under article 73 - 300 of the elected national deputies and took part in the consideration of the case at least 226. We say in advance to the death of the bill that is being passed. 241 registered. The fact that you have 240 cards doesn't say that there are 240. Place your registration on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u17	Vassil Ivanovich, I have no reason to register twice in a row, there is no reason for that. So, dear colleagues, we're moving on to Project 4038. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the modernisation and increase of pensions. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. To consider this question. 150 votes are required to address this issue. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:15:55]] For-174 For 172, it's only 240 down there, see? 174, I'm sorry. Against - 8, holding - 9, not voting - 29. I would like to invite the rapporteur, National Deputy of Ukraine, Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] The singer is Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please. I just have my first author, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u18	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Honorable National Deputies! In general, this was a bad practice with the previous Head of the Supreme Council, when such important bills, which were expected to be included in the agenda for almost a half year, were included in the next session. I hope that in the future, as a colleague of the Wadim Yvchenko faction said, the bills that await millions of people will be included in the agenda of the day session and we will look at them and actually adopt them. By Law 4038 we, co-authors, together with Julia Timoshenko and a group of National Deputies of the Fatherland faction, propose to return to the March Modernization of Pensions. Retirement indexing is carried out according to the Ukrainian Money Income Index Act, which will enable pensioners and persons with disabilities to increase their income during the year. The annual March recalculation of pensions, accounting for at least 80 per cent of the average monthly wage increase, income for Ukraine last year, but not less than the inflation rate of the consumer price index last year. Next. The bill proposes that the average salary in the country should be taken into account in the last year. Dear colleagues, the current government has finally begun to raise pensions to inflation levels last year, but not since March, but only since May, in two months no one has returned the money. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u19	Thank you. The word is given to the coreporter, to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to Galina Mikolayivna Trelyakowi. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the next session! I mean, we're with you recently, and Mikhail Mikhailovich knows that, we passed Bill 4668 on the first reading. The chairman of the working group for the second reading of the bill is Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. This bill sets the date of the annual indexation - March 1st. In addition, Bill 4668, which has already been adopted, establishes the indexation for civil servants and military personnel, which was repealed in 2014-2015. And why does this bill stand on the line, if there is, adopted in the first reading and the faction, the faction representative prepares the bill for the second reading, I don't know. There is a committee decision on this bill to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u21	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to discuss this legislative initiative. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Kacny Alexander Stalinolenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u22	Natalia Juryovni Kraljevska, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u23	I'd love to. Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we thank all those who have found the opportunity to come to one of the most important parliamentary meetings today, when we discuss one of the most important issues that concerns 11 million pensioners in our country -- people who have devoted their lives to serving the Fatherland, people who are now forced to live in cold homes and get 2 thousand pension dollars. Think about it. We have 8 million pensioners in the country getting a pension of up to 4,000 dollars. Raise your hand, please, in the hall, who can live a month for 2, 3, or 4,000 dollars. Raise your hand. There's none. No one can survive. So why did you declare genocide for our old people in our country today? Why are you making fun of older people right now? And that's why we urge you, we beg you, on behalf of the trade unions, on behalf of the Ukrainian Social Council, from our entire team, "The Opposition Platform for Life": we have a little bit of conscience. But today we have to vote on all the bills that have been announced in this extracurricular session. Because our task is to give people hope that they will survive this winter, to give people hope that there are still those in this room who remember their grandparents, those who remember their first teachers, their doctors, those who remember that our parents created our country and built it. So we ask you very much to support all of the bills of this order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u25	The word is given to Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u26	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'm back on the subject of passing or passing bills and getting into the session room for consideration. Since April, the "Paternity" team has registered this bill. As of April, today at the beginning of October, the bill is such a long way to go that almost 11 million of our pensioners are really looking forward to it. In the meantime, the government promised to pay the pensioners who were 75 years of age or older on July 1 and then to move the 400 - year increase to October 1. And for these citizens, this category, this 400 dollars is extremely important, especially when food and some groups have tripled: it's oil, it's Greek and other essential products. Dear colleagues, we believe that such bills, and in the Committee of Social Policy, they go through and receive support for their timely entry into the agenda, not on the pre-requisitional agendas, but rather on how they should be approved in this room and served in order to support our citizens. We demand that, as a "Paternity" team, the issue of social policy be the basis for the formation of government policy in the budget for next year. Because it's really not the only thing that can support citizens today at a difficult time of upsizing and utility payments and other challenges. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u27	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u28	Please give the floor to the national MP, Anton Polakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u29	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, we've been collecting these signatures since June, I'm our own MPs for the future. There were laws that were very nice, all social, all aimed at raising pensions and securing our unsecured population: these are the Chernobyls, these are children of war, they're veterans. But somehow, when you've been here all day talking about the Rules, about equality, about everything else, there's only two bills in the room, and we can't vote for everyone. And when you said today that we finally did something in this room, I also supported the resignation of Razumkov, because I understand that if a person becomes political, it is no longer the independent Head of the Supreme Council. But let's work straight into this room. If you don't completely like our drafts, which we can work on for a pension, we can go back to the second reading. But 10 million people, every time you come to the county, they ask, they can't survive, they can't pay your tariffs, your government. They can't buy their own medicine, they can't buy their own food. It's just bullying, it's tariff and pension genocide. And now we can't even get together completely. It's a shame, my friends. How can we vote for anything if we are not even 226? And all these bills that we've been drafting, including with children of war, with veterans, with pensioners, all these bills people have asked for. But you can't even bring them into the hall. So what equality can we talk about here?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u31	The word is given to the Feds of Sofia Romanovna, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u32	Please pass the word to my colleague Alexi Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u33	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u34	Dear friends, as one of the three candidates for the Supreme Council head, I would like to draw your attention. Look, unfortunately, it's a very uninteresting question. The whole opposition is present, and the majority in their majority are divided. So it's not to share a chair, it's not to knock down Razumkov, there, maybe there'll be some financial bonuses for that. And here are some pensions for Ukrainian citizens, what, is it interesting to anyone? No, it's totally not interesting. They split up. Of course, for my headship, there will be no such disgrace, I can say that exactly. What are we looking at now? The important question is to help our pensioners. Clearly, our faction of "European Solidarity" votes in favour. But I want to ask. If I become the Head, I'm going to do it myself, and if I don't, I want to ask that together we finally put out our Bill 6006 with the first author, Peter Prashenko, who envisions the thirteenth pension for people, as they do in Europe. Ukraine has now received 2.7 billion dollars from the IMF, not because we are young, we have done something great, but because all the countries of the world have received COVID. So who needs to give them to? The most vulnerable. Who is the most vulnerable person in Ukraine with a minimum pension of 1 thousand and 800 dollars? No, no, the defenses themselves are not Zelensky's, we know he's got everything on his curbs, they're pensioners. And that's why we have to give it to them and vote for it. I ask my colleagues to support Bill 606. I'm asking you to take him to the hall. And then all the Ukrainian pensioners get the thirteenth pension, get it in November, the day before the heating season, probably the most difficult moment they really need it. So just forget about the chairs for a minute, even for a minute, and do something really right and good for the people you called yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u35	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, the cost of this bill, that is, how much it will affect the budget, $4.9 billion. That's one and a half times less than you're losing on illegal alcohol that's still being sold. That's almost twice as much as a shadowy cigarette run right now. That's two and a half times less than the shadow circle of the fuel that they're selling. The government's fiscal service, and in the future, because there's going to be the same head, the Bureau of Economic Security, doesn't see it coming. That's ten times less than you're losing on state enterprises that have to make money to the state, not to individual oligarchs. So, respectable colleagues, here's the difference, we could save and send this money. At least 5 billion dollars is as much as you want to add to your district this year. So choose whether to vote for this bill or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u37	Dear colleagues. Yes, please, National Deputy Bakunets Pavel Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u38	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, it is important to consider social issues at last. To you, perhaps, a rhetorical question: How often do you all travel to different regions, east, west, and associate with the inhabitants of these newly created communities? If you're driving and talking to them on the phone or at least on the phone, they have one important question right now: how do they get a minimum of 1,000 dollars to survive -- pay the utility, pay for the gas, pay for the medicine? That's why we need to now vote on this bill both on the basis and on the whole. And at least step by step to help our pensioners, our elderly people, and especially to help the rehabilitated, the children of the war to whom we have promised so much to raise their salaries, and yet they do not. So I urge you in the hall to vote and make a real step towards our pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken. Let's go to the vote. See, the committee's proposal is to get the subject back on the right of the legislative initiative to work. That's why I put it first. If she doesn't pick up, I'll put all the other options in article 114. Ready to vote? People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to the committee to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Upgrading and Increase Pensions (Project Registration No. 4038). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:32:25]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The next proposal I make is to adopt the bill (registration number 4038). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:32:51]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. I would like to propose to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of Bill 4038. Please vote. [[16:33:24]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a second. Let me ask the faction leaders, please come to me, we'll consult on this situation. Please. Faction leaders, please come in for a second. Dear colleagues, was it a consensus decision that those factions who wished to speak would be given two minutes, and we would make a general joint decision that is close to that, given that they are not recruiting these bills with the necessary number of votes, and considering that it is not desirable for these bills to be lost to Parliament, how do you feel about the proposal to close today's session? So let's start, let's write down the factions that want, the honourable colleagues, to speak. The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, we are back to where we started. Everyone admits, all the factions, all the groups admit that bills are extremely important, they're for people, they're for people, they're for people, they're for pension insurance, they're for social protection, and so on. There is no political power against it. But today we are once again convinced that it is technically complex that we cannot consider these bills at this meeting: either people are missing or there are other moments. But we stress, our Trust Group, the bills are very important. So in order not to lose them, we support today's initiative to close the session and then go back to considering these bills when the mobilisation is complete in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u42	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The position of our faction will be expressed by Ms. Natalia Královska. Please give her your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u43	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, we believe that this is the verdict of this Ukrainian Parliament, this vast majority, "the servants of the people," who have really confirmed their real name today, "the servants of the oligarchs." Because when it was necessary to gather in Parliament to vote and raise pensions for the people in order to support our pensioners today, unfortunately, they didn't find the time. But you found the time when you returned the casino when you sold the land when you were changing the speaker. You're making time for all of this. And therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists that the first, urgent drafts on Friday should be those laws -- laws that will raise people's pensions, which will bring them back to a fair settlement and calculation of the pension formula that will restore justice for the Chernobylites, for the state pensioners, for the military pensioners, for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which I and Vasil Ivanovich Germany and with many national deputies were elected in the Constitutional Court. This is our chance for the Ukrainian Parliament to give people hope that the state still cares about them. And that's why we're demanding the issue of retirement, the question of today's pension indexation -- it should be one of the main issues of this Parliament. And shame on those who ignored the meetings today, on those who failed to vote today, and on those who ran away like cowards. You're going to provoke people to social protests. To survive, we need to go outside today and demand that this Parliament make fair decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u45	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Jaroslavovich Rudik, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u46	Dear Ukrainians, I've seen a lot of things in the walls of this Parliament during this call. He saw the question of the return of the first 100 kilowatts of the first 100 kilowatts, initiated by our MP group, which was 150-160 votes and did not pass. I saw when we offered to put a moratorium on tariff increases, and that was this year, which was largely blocked and did not raise the required number of votes. But to avoid even putting into order the day’s question that has taken place today, I have never seen such a thing. Our colleague, Anton Polakov, from the summer, passed seven drafts to be considered today, seven, that the children of war should receive an allowance such as those involved in the fighting; that the Cabinet should not issue a pension, as it wishes, to the pensioners' cards, which is 3.5 million people, and that, according to a pensioner who can't drive these crowded buses, which are already few in the rural area, into an ATM; that the minimum pension age should be equal to the minimum wage of 1 January. You could have done the same thing here during the vote, but you thought of the impossible -- you didn't even put this off-limits session in order. So our parliamentary group is glad we're not going to consider this right now, because I know your plan: you wanted to knock them down here without getting the votes you needed. We are voting against this issue now, and for the next consecutive session, we are introducing all seven bills initiated by the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u47	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u49	Three - year - old Galina Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u50	The theater of absurdity continues. The "ministers of the people" have already passed the bill and supported the indexation of pensions, the indexation of civil servants, military officials, already set in the first reading of March 1st as the date of the annual indexation. Seven years or more, Mr. Nemchinov knows better, the Constitutional Court's decision on Chernobyl has not been decided. We did it three months after the KSU finally adopted a more or less understandable plan, which Parliament has to do to set up a minimum pension for black people. It's two and a half, three times, you've never done that. This faction, which says that they indexed the pension, it tested the pension twice for the fifth resident's office, once in October 2017, and said it was the previous 2018 index; and then in 2019, before the election. Over the years, in five years, no indexation, except for those two before the elections, and in 2017, the formula was applied, and the Ukrainians received three retirement ages: 60, 65 and 63. Who knows about this in society? This was done in secret, by this Groissman, who was sitting here doing a reform that was not compatible with civil society. So you don't have to talk about increasing your pension. We've made 80 for this year alone more than 1,000 200 a month, not a one-time thousand Julius Volodymyrna, but a thousand 200 a month. We put it in the next budget and in three years' resolution 75 next year, this year from October, and 70 next year. So you fought poverty? And the one who says that we have the greatest poverty in retirement said that in many families, they seem to need help. And not by child pay at all, but by low income, which you haven't done either, you've reduced the cost of living at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u51	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u52	Please pass the word to Peter Alexiovich Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u53	Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u54	I'm not talking to the national MPs, not the lottery players, not the game business that robbed the country and now they're pulling. I address the Ukrainian people. Why I don't go to the deputies, because they're not in the hall, because they're less than 226. They're not interested in this. When it came to filming Smart as rabbits, they sat and when they needed to take care of the people. Do you think the people live so well? Go to the street and ask, and you'll get the answer or you'll get the pizza. The first position we're talking about is the energy crisis, where you've been in 2020-2021, having our money that we've decided in RAO, Gazprom, in the form of $3 billion, you've ripped it apart, ripped it apart, ripped it apart, and today you're going to sing fairy tales to retirees that they live well? No new laws were needed, and it was enough to meet the requirements for the indexation of pensions in connection with inflation, which you have been suspending for two years. Dear friends, I'd like to announce the sensational news right now: two and a half years is not the President, and you are not the opposition. We must now be accountable to the people, report to the people, and not create the parliamentary crisis that you have made today, without allowing the military, the economy, the energy and the protection of people. I say again, you're ashamed that you're not in the hall today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u55	The word is given to Vadim Eugenovich Ivchenka (Yes, I understand?) It's from Fatherland. Since we didn’t sign up, we agreed on just two minutes, two minutes too. And after that, I think we're going to make consolidated decisions, which everyone has said in different words. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u56	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, I'm in Parliament for the seventh year, I've never seen a deputy get together to vote on pension index laws. I have not seen when deputies, when there are three and a half thousand people coming out against antisocial policies of active power, are not going to vote on the laws on increasing pensions and indexing for black people. I want to remind the head of the committee that the minimum pension for Yulia Timoshenko was $120 per course 8, if she doesn't know. And if the committee's head had confused Yulina's thousand, then Yulina's thousand was the one who lost his savings in Savings. So please don't have to be equal here. And we need to take these laws and look at them. So here's 1.7 million black people, where we proposed: the disabled and the Chernobyl group would get 12,000, the disabled group II would get 10,000. That's what Timoshenko offered. Disabled III is 8.5. And you don't want to adopt these laws today. What are we talking about, what social policy? And you're talking about the indexation of pensions, wages. So where was the fraction of the majority today when people came out? The Fatherhood has come out, the Future has come out, the European Solidarity has come out, and where are you and your so-called social policy? That's what I'm talking about, colleagues. Please see that the proposals offered today by the opposition are worth it. Because the Chernobyls are 1.7 million and the pensioners are 11.5 and everything is required from the budget is 4.9 billion, 4.9. And you're trying to tax them, 18 billion, with taxes from each hectare. And believe me, it's definitely your fault and it's gonna be the end of two years of this monotony and these servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u57	The word is spoken of as concluding, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, I think a wise decision will close today’s session. The only thing is, we really lost a week on this political crisis, Lokdown, call it what you want. And tomorrow, given that we don't have a elected head of parliament, we're going to lose that time too. I don't understand why we didn't set up an emergency meeting on another matter. In fact, the problem with subsidies, let's face it, they're not enough, and that could be done. We do have a problem with the coronavirus, we don't have enough money for it, and again, it's not foreseen. We don't have any money to support entrepreneurs, and that's exactly what we could do. We've got it. I know you don't, Galina Tretyakov, I know you don't, you could've put it on an emergency session, you have that opportunity with Mr. President. But a wise decision will be put off tomorrow. The last thing I want is for Parliament to probably show a little bit that we're working, I have a big request for all the factions. Igor Fries, I've been hearing about your Bill 5807 from all entrepreneurs for probably a week now. Let's at least accept it tomorrow, show that, besides politics, we sometimes think about people. Please back it up and put it in order tomorrow. Thank you, we have to close today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that I will sum up and make an offer from all the political parties that are represented in Parliament. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, colleagues.
