ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! It's good to see you all today. I see all the factions and groups have been missing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I can see it in my eyes. Please prepare for registration. As the national deputies prepare for registration, I remind you that today we will have a plenary session. The plenary meeting will be from the tenth to the third. The break will be from the twelfth to the first. Since we have 30 minutes of the Rules, I can offer 30 minutes as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to be able to bring the hall into order, we're going to quark. And so you can have lunch. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I see everyone's missed. After the third, we're going to have an hour off until the fourth. And then there will be two consecutive sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hope we can get through them quickly. Both successive sessions were called for by Ukrainian national deputies. Are you ready to register? I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, using the sensory button. Ready? Please register. [[10:08:52]] There are 237 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. Please sign up for statements by representatives of the MP factions and groups. Dear colleagues, once again I remind you that the pandemic is continuing, so please use the masks as provided for in legislation. Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Golovo, Ukrainian society, Ukrainian citizens! You know, what happened on 87 counties in the Overworld is the abuse and the act of the people, the national will and the Ukrainian democracy. I want all of us to know and remember that. We have not seen such cynicism on the part of the party of power since Kuchma and since Yanukovich. The whole country has been watching this illegality, "The Servant of the People," who have infiltrated the District Electoral Commission, for the illegality of Ukraine's law enforcement system. If we swallow this situation now and we speak, all factions and groups, such elections will await us in the future. Counterfeiting the results of the citizens' will, falsifying electoral documentation, the disappearance of ballot papers, the scandalous "servicing" event, the involvement of the Ukrainian Security Service. We saw the divide in 2004 in Mukachev, as it was in individual elections in major districts in 2012, where the results took place and people went to the polls. In any case, this inference ends in vain for the active authority, for the party of power. And victory is proved to be a pyropheric victory or a harbinger of the end for such authority in terms of its legitimacy and its ability to protect the interests of society. The recent decision of the French District Administrative Court, which partially annulled the decision of the District Electoral Commission to establish the results of the elections, only confirms that the KLA, and its individual members, are directly involved in the distortion of results. And you should call those members and the head of the KLA of Mr. Lozinsky and the individual members who represented the seemingly democratic parties that today have factions in Parliament. I call on the Central Electoral Commission to submit to the so-called "black" lists of such KLA members and KLA heads, delegated, to the word democratic parliamentary parties. We demand the execution of the court's decision and the establishment of fair results of the election, and the guilty of falsification must be punished. Dear friends, aside from this subject, which has clearly puzzled society, our parliamentary group, Party for the Future, has gathered 153 signatures of members of the various factions and groups to hold an extraordinary plenary meeting. Critical nonpayments in the LHC for gas consumption and electricity amounted to about 100 billion dollars. People just don't pay because there's nowhere to pay them. So today we want to consider and adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the return of the premium on electricity for the first 100 kilowatt hours. With regard to the need to introduce a 1 year moratorium on energy tariffs and immediate measures to reduce the price of electricity and tariffs for services of natural gas supply and distribution. Dear colleagues, we urge everyone to come to the next meeting and stop the unprofessional actions of our authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u3	Black-Morted Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u4	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Head. Good morning, people of Ukraine. From this grand rostrum today, the National Fellows, I am addressing you first and would like to offer a little time travel, namely to return to March 4, 2020. Then you and I approved the new Prime Minister and the new Kabmin. Then, over time, on June 4, 2020, you and I did not accept the first edition of the government program. On June 12, the Supreme Council rendered its verdict to a fully-worked government programme and 207 national deputies voted for it, and that was not enough for us to adopt a government programme. And for now, what do we have, colleagues? For more than a year, the Cabinet of Ministers works without a clear vector, without a program, where our country moves. To this day, we, Majorists and National Listers, travel around the country, communicate with people, and get the same words that you chose, and it's your Cabinet of Ministers that works. So for now, dear colleagues, I think it's time to get answers to the questions that concern our voters, our people. What is the situation with the pandemic? If we work so well, why are we the last on the vaccination list and almost the first on the level of illness? Why did the Cabinet of Ministers cancel the electricity benefits? And thanks to the National Deputies, Bill 4587 was approved, which will be presented in this Chamber today. And I believe it is our duty and our honour to confirm it. Dear colleagues, the answers to these questions should be given because I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Cabinet Act says that the Cabinet should report to us no later than April 15th, as it has been a year. That's why we're waiting for them. And so now the situation reminds us that they want to go on our steamboat, which is going to be a beautiful future, but we shouldn't let that happen, so we're waiting for the Kabmin to report. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u5	Thank you. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich. Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I am addressing you with what the Ukrainians are talking about for the first month. During this year, Ukraine has further established the title of Europe’s poorest country, and millions of Ukrainians feel it on their own every day. The government's absolute incompetence has led the country to this state, despite empty promises of economic growth, in the first quarter we see a decrease of 3 percent. Unemployment is now at the 2009 level. Over the past year, about a million Ukrainians, just think about that figure, about a million lost their jobs. The price of unannounced hatchdowns is impressive. Only the public food sector, the restorators, have lost more than six billion dollars, and only three billion governments have allocated to all and all entrepreneurs. For the time being, most small and medium-sized enterprises can be quarantined for about two months, and then they will be permanently closed. And the state aid that they're giving out now is going to be spent on paying off the loans. The Cabinet of Ministers just doesn't have a plan for the economy, and that's during the second year of the pandemic, when it's so badly needed. The government has not been able to offer anything systematic to protect the work and income of our citizens. Which is why, your honor, you plan to pay wages and pensions if you're systematically destroying taxpayers right now. The Voice party isn't waiting for an answer to this rhetorical question, we're doing it, so we've initiated an intrepid call to Parliament so that the Supreme Council itself can find the answer to the threats that are now facing the country. We offer two concrete steps. The first is organized vaccination. Another 100 days ago, Voice offered a road map of vaccinations. Just use it right now to make sure that no vaccine is missing, so that people who want to be vaccinated have access to it. The vaccination is the only chance now for the country to return to normal work, to normal life. And the second is the execution of the Voice anti-crisis plan. We call for our Bill 5346 to be voted on to support the economy. This is a real plan of action to protect Ukrainian jobs, save businesses from bankruptcy and give our economy a chance to develop. Colleagues, it's time to bring a man back to the center of politics, it's time to use our knowledge, our expertise, our ideas to show the result, the Ukrainians expect us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u7	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u8	Vladimir Aresonkov, Deputy Group "Trust", Žitomirščina. Your Honor, your colleagues! The Trust MP group insists that a number of important issues were high for the coming period. The first is the issue of national security and defence, the security sector. And now we're proposing to our colleagues from the National Security and Defence Council, in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to finalize the entire set of legal acts to ensure the implementation of this issue, so that it's not like the 4210 Bill on General Defence Planning, which we're going to be sending to work today. The issue of vaccination, which not only irritates the whole country, must at last be made clear by the Minister of Health. But we are also concerned about the current work of the government. Tell me, why hasn't the government been able to develop a standard of oxygen stations that can be built at the level of district hospitals, support hospitals? And now the locals are doing whatever the hell they want to do for their own good. And in the end, the issue of settling the wages of health workers. There is no social justice in this question: PMSD and those who work there, and those who work in hospitals and hospitals, still vary in pay. It's wrong, it needs to be settled. And if we're talking about salary, the point is that we have to finish this shameful story with the debt of wages for our teachers, our teachers. I know the profile committee has been working on this, but the government needs to get involved in this issue right now. The Trust MP group has prepared a number of drafts that we worked on after addressing the heads of the united territorial communities. These are 5244, 5245, who have to settle local budgets and many others. Hence, attention should also be given to this matter. And to the end. Dear colleagues, April 26 is the 35th anniversary of the Chernobyl AES accident. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council has not been able to consider a decision that takes into account the whole package of measures. No bill has been tabled to decide, to settle the issue of our liquidators, of citizens who have suffered from an accident at CAES. There's still time, let's work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u9	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u10	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! One of the people's "Serial of the People" factions made a pretty good statement, and where does the country go? Unfortunately, the country is in a critical and disastrous situation in the economy and in the social sphere. We've looked at and analyzed the results of the 20th year, the 21st year. We already have a 4.2 percent drop in industrial production this year, after we fell more than 5 percent last year and half in the 19th year. That's one aspect. Metallurgy, machine-building, derivatives all show a drop of about 20 percent. Agriculture, we have an agrarian locomotive, and so on, this year 6 percent of the decline in agricultural production, and last year there was a fall of 11.5 percent. It's a huge loss, which today is a national economy, and most of the questions are not about COVID-19 or other derivatives. Question three. The bottom line of failed economic policy is social policy. We see debt on a salary of 3.2 billion dollars. We see colossal debts, an absolute counter record of 82 billion dollars, more than 82 billion dollars is debts for housing and utilities. This means that the tariff policy proposed by the government, the NCREKP and other state institutions is now beyond the reach of the vast majority of households in Ukraine. Another important point is that we have a completely inadequate debt policy. We came here in the 19th year in August, from that time on, government-guaranteed debt increased by as much as $10 billion. Ten billion took this Kabmin in a short period of time. Why am I bringing all this stuff? Because the priorities of economic and social policy, the Cabinet of Ministers, budgetary policy should be those steps in addressing the problems that we have just considered. We have proposed an appropriate programme – an anti-guided or post-guided programme to restore the national economy, to return to the 2013 conflict parameters, to other issues of social standards, and so on, overcoming poverty, in the end, what the President said in his programme. There is no such thing today. And that's why our faction insists that when you go into an emergency session, you have to first consider the issues of tariff policy, industrial policy, national economic recovery, the stability of the financial and banking systems. Until that happens, our faction will not take part in such successive meetings where the interests of Ukrainian citizens are not advocated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u11	Puzichuk. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u12	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to go to all the Ukrainians right now, because there's no point in talking to the Supreme Council. I want to give you the mood that is now in the hall: two-thirds of the deputies are gone, there's a general market in the hall, everybody's sorted out by groups, and I think they're discussing some of their business. It's not the Supreme Council, it's all the key decisions that this Supreme Council makes, they're taking outside the Supreme Council Hall, they're taking over the President's administration, and they're just stretching out here. Dear friends, I've heard a lot of good words from this rostrum right now, but nobody needs them, and nothing in this room will change them. I just want to say that when people aren't allowed to meet for 2-3, there are MPs here who want to run into this room in the lockdown with only one goal for this session -- because they want to push two bills for the sale of agricultural land for this session. There is no longer any purpose to serve the people in this room. Today, they want to finally push the changes to the Earth Code, where they plan to completely remove the state from control over the use of agricultural land. They now provide for the sale of especially valuable lands, the abolition of the ban on the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And they also want to abolish the ban on the removal of the upper layer of fertile land and throughout the Earth Code in the word "originating land" cancel the word "Ukraine." This is the purpose of today’s congregation during the lockdown. They're chewing gum here, making selfies, they're normally communicating with each other there, and they're deep "shit" that's done with Ukraine, with the land, with all the other questions. And secondly, they want to extend electronic auctions to which our peasants will not be able to reach upon sale. All these laws are against Ukraine, against national interests, in favour of lobbyists who already see their trillions made on Ukrainian agricultural land. And that's why there's no point in talking to this room. And that's why I'm saying "Paternity" goes beyond this room. We are announcing an all-Ukrainian referendum banning the sale of agricultural land and turning to the people. Because in this room, the work goes against the people and against Ukraine. Everyone in the referendum, we're going to protect Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u13	Gerasimov. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u14	Surely everyone today is concerned about the anomalous crowd of Russian occupation forces near the Ukrainian borders. What is this, like, throwing weapons or a real threat to the Russian Federation's re-invasion and furthering Ukraine? This obviously requires a serious response from Ukrainian society, from all of us to unity, to the strengthening of the Ukrainian army, to diplomacy and to serious information politics, and to the truth. Two years ago, Greensky promised society an easy recipe for peace -- just stop shooting, meet in the middle of nowhere. And his team said that the main thing from the power to remove those who earn in war would be peace in all peace. We see today that the actual army was taken away, only by the Ukrainian army. Thank God it's not in the middle of Ukraine yet. We see that we have stopped shooting because the ban is still in effect. And it's very important that Zelensky and his team finally acknowledge the truth that they lied and bludgeoned and continue to do so, unfortunately. After Qatar, Zelensky arrived at Donbas. We welcome that. But not only military forces are really important, as he urged politicians to join the army. And there still laughs at the Armed Forces of the pre-election pear tour of the "Serve of the People" who came into the army, but then they re-adopted the budget, which raised the salaries of the D.B.I., the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to all the penal-repressive authorities, except for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And that's why we urge you, colleagues, to review the budget immediately for this year. The Ukrainian army is strong, but it must be motivated. Return counter-sniper groups, return drones, return artillery and mortars to strengthen our position. Diplomacy. Zelenski's light statements that he would negotiate separately with each participant in Normandy's format essentially destroyed Normandy's format, and we need to reinstate it immediately, force sanctions against the Russian Federation of Putin and its team. It is equally important today to return to the ideas of our political team – a safe road map, a road map of Minsk, where the key block is safe. And to the subject of peacemakers. President Prashenko held appropriate talks with Hensek UN Guterres on a technical mission to Donbas for peacekeepers. We need to get back to this idea. And of course, NATO. Too bad Zelensky refused to go to the NATO summit in London in the 19th year and ask for the HDF, that's what we have to do. But NATO is principles, including democratic elections, including vaccination without corruption and fair. And of course, information policy. The truth is essential here, not fairy tales, which unfortunately the Greens team continues to dissolve for budget money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our statements from the parliamentary factions and groups and are moving on to the consideration of Bill 2194 in a second reading. We've stopped: Amendment 1050, People's Deputy Dubyl. Don't insist. 1053rd National Deputy Plačkova. Don't insist. 54th, Crybaby. Don't insist. 1056th, Volosin. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Well, I can't follow all the co-authors. I looked, Ivan Grigorovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, a second, then. 1051, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich or Yvchenko Who's it gonna be? Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u16	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Chairman, I'd like to ask you in an orderly fashion, please call all the amendments. We have 1200 pages of right. We don't even always get to roll over, look at the readjustments. So all the changes, please call them in order. And a deputy will either take the word or he will not. That's the right thing to do. That's the first one. The other one. So I want to remind you that last year during the pandemic, during the lockdown, we're going back to meeting you and selling Ukrainian land. Then you adopted the Land Sales Act of July 1, this year. And today, farmers, agrarians, farmers, farmers are not ready, they are calling on the deputies and the Supreme Council to postpone the entry into force of this law. Colleagues, you and I make an irreparable mistake when we don't listen to agrarian associations and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u17	A vote is taken on amendment 1051 of the People’s Deputies of Kirilenko and Ichchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:35:17]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 1059, Krasov. Don't insist. 1060, Dubnov. Don't insist. 1061, Dubnov. Don't insist. 1062, Kovalov. Are you insisting? Please 1062, Kovalov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I want to go back to this bill, 2194, which is the law. Now, we've had two weeks, and I've been seeing agrarians who have read this bill carefully, and I want to say their negative attitude towards this very norm, to the fact that we're pretty much regulating relationships, land relations. We have a very good standard in the Codex earth 148. 1, which already guarantees the agrarians their extension of leases. That's why I'd like to put the application for confirmation, and I'm asking the House to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u19	Not for confirmation, but considering it, you meant it because it wasn't counted. Yeah? Thank you. I bet on the vote of amendment 1062 of the People's Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:37:04]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 1064, Kovalov. Don't insist. Thank you. 1065 – you don't insist either. 1071, Black Seas. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Please, 1071, the Black Sea People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, look, the situation is next in Ukraine. They were under the patronage of the President of Ukraine handed over the land to the communities, these acts of acceptance of the transfer, which came primarily to the heads of the OTG and signed these acts of acceptance and accepted the land to themselves. But we now have a legal conflict, and without that law we can't decide. That is, according to article 125 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, if the right to land is not registered, it will not belong to the community. And this law allows for the automatic transfer of these lands into community property after the act of acceptance. Dear colleagues, I ask you to stop the legal spam and finally do the right thing for our Ukraine and give the land to the communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Do you insist on voting for your amendment? Don't insist, thank you. 1073, Fries. Don't insist. 1079, Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u22	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, there are plenty of corrupt rules in this bill. Imagine the minister of agrarian politics claiming 700,000 acres [700,000 ha] of stolen land. Colleagues, it's $60,000 in just last year. 60 grand is under your authority. 144 thousand in the 19th year. And I want to remind you that you came directly in May. Colleagues, hundreds of thousands of hectares, are produced through private farming outside the moratorium. That's why there's corruption laws here that I'm going to insist on talking about letting you and me crash them. Colleagues, these are millions of devices in someone's hands. Why should you carry on this corruption under the law? And next, colleagues. We will appeal if we do not see the support of the hall, we will address the citizens of Ukraine, and we will advertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u23	A word. Oh, my God, I'm sorry. It is based on a vote of 1079 national MP Yvchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:40:11]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1080, Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u24	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you must be taught directly by the experience of European countries that have already undergone land reform and have launched long - standing markets in the land. Do you remember Lithuania, remember Latvia? Many lands were bought by foreigners or by limited-liability societies, which then actually outran foreigners, and they're not following these sales transactions. Colleagues, it's important enough for us to understand that our farmers and farmers will then be non-barrackers and not rent Ukrainian land in companies directly owned by foreigners or by legitimate persons. I want to remind you that today Saudi Arabia has already purchased a large holding company, 270,000 hectares, and the United States is working in Ukraine today. And that's about 4 million hectares of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u25	Puts to the vote the amendment of 1080 national MP Yvchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:41:42]] For-76 The decision is not taken. It's stuck. Don't insist. Salichuk. Don't insist. Yes, 1096, Bondarev. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Thank you. 1099, Puzichuk. Don't you insist? 1099, Puzichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u26	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have an amendment to 1091. Let's start with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u27	Let's do 1091.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u28	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I remind you that this is already the second draft of a package of so-called reform. The first bill was adopted at night with a violation of the Rules. And at the initiative of Fatherland, the Constitutional Court has opened up the conduct. Everyone is waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court. And we have a very high hope that this shameful bill will be repealed. You continue to do so today, regardless of the conduct of the Constitutional Court, regardless of the violation of the Constitution, regardless of the violation of the laws, you continue the shameful tradition of adopting anti-constitutional, anti-national laws. Please place my amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u29	I'm betting on the 1091st People's Deputy Puziyczuk vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:43:52]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 1099. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u30	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, now almost the whole country is in the red zone, small businesses are closing down, unemployment is rising, there are no tests in Ukraine, there are no beds overcrowded. Tell me, do you have any other problems today? Everything decided in this country except that the sale of the land was left? Why don't you stop today from considering this shameful bill and start looking at bills aimed at developing the economy, protecting Ukrainian citizens, protecting citizens, and providing health care for all that is needed? Explain to the Ukrainian citizens what is being done today, whose interests you represent here, and whose interests you are protecting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u31	A vote is taken on amendment 1099 of the Puzijczuk People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:45:22]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 1100, Puzichuk. Will you insist? Yeah, 1100. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u32	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, I'm coming to you, hear the opposition! The practice has already shown that you are involved in legislative spam, not opposition. The opposition protects interests: the interests of the state, the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And what you are now adopting is the 2194 bill, which has already been rejected once by the Ukrainian Parliament, is in contravention of the following bill, 2195. Reject this bill and carry out complex thorough work aimed at protecting Ukrainian peasants, protecting Ukrainian farming, and not selling Ukrainian land. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u33	Thank you. An amendment of 1,100 people’s deputies of Puziychuk is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:56]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next 1101, Stolar. Don't insist. 1103, Yatzik. Don't insist. 1104, Germany, Vasil Ivanovich. Don't insist, all right? There is, please, Vasil Ivanovich. I just didn't see you behind the National MP Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u34	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, the above - mentioned suggestions were first and foremost applied in this regard. Look at the whole line, the whole shering of subjects for sale: both the state and the local authorities. There are no territorial communities, however, if that is the case. And these united territorial communities, they are also the subject, but where are they? First. Secondly, when it comes to selling land, I would like to clarify what the role of this landowner is there, why he should ask the tenant about the right to sell his land. As a result, we make these suggestions about what is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u35	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Amendment 1104, National Deputies of Germany, Shufrich, is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:48:43]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1105. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, to continue with the same question. But I would have yawned if I were you, too, reporter. I can see you're so interested in this, you've already fallen asleep in the pulpit, the way you sell the land. I'd like to say, look, we've got sales mechanisms, an electronic form of land sales. Then look, how this will relate to the subjects listed in these articles. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that, to date, the rights of the renter to exercise their rights to sell land are being denied, and you will not find them there in sales subjects, that's what this is about. And so we think that our proposal needs to be applied and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u37	Yes, we must put to the vote, Vasil Ivanovich, your proposal under number 1105. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:20]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 1006, Lukashev, please. Pauline, please, you're a co-author.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u38	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Actually, my rights are extremely simple, and I insist that the word "Ukraine" be added in the first part of article 131 of the Earth Code after the words "legal persons." Regrettably, this bill, despite all the assurances of authority, allows for the purchase of Ukrainian land to foreign legal persons and this right is intended to make it impossible. What is more, we insist that this law should be removed from consideration, rejected as well as the previous law that applied to the opening of the agricultural land market. Defer until Ukraine comes out of a socio-economic crisis, when the work with vaccination is done, against the pandemic, when we realize that Ukrainians are rich and can say their position in a referendum, only then do these laws have the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u39	A vote is taken on amendment 1106 of the national deputies Lukshev and Pavlovka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:56]] For-72 The decision is not made. Next amendment 1107, Vlorosyn. Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Dear colleagues, we've talked many times about the launch, and it's not just us, in principle, that all the smart people understand that in the circumstances of not ending the conflict on Donbass, no Ukrainian peasant, no Ukrainian agrarian can get a fair price on land. I think in those situations that are now unfolding, in the security sphere and in Donbassa, and in other directions in eastern Ukraine, we all see, and this is objective facts, the flow of investments from Ukraine started. And we realize that in the context of so-called military anxiety, no talk of launching the Earth market seems just idiotic. And it is clear to everyone today that until the conflict on Donbas is resolved, until a settled relationship with our eastern neighbor is resolved, we will never be able to conduct any serious economic processes here. This includes the sale of land. We then consider the whole launch of the earth’s market in these conditions to be totally inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u41	Thank you. I would like to vote on the amendment of 1107 People's Deputies of Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:30.]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1108 People's Deputy Koltunović. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u42	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Yuri Zagradny, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". I insist that in my right hand, in the first part of article 131, after the words "legal persons" be completed, "the legal persons of Ukraine" is the first. The other one. Mikola Tarasovich, I have one question for you and your answer to this question is very important and important to the Ukrainian people. Please tell me, after the adoption of Law 2178-10 on the Circumstances of Agricultural Assignment, and this law that we are currently considering in the 2194 session hall is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular articles 5, 13, 14? Your answer, I think, is extremely important, and this answer needs to be heard by the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you. And I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u43	Thank you. That's what I'm doing. I'm voting for amendment 1108 of National Deputy Koltunović, Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:08]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1109. Shufrich, Kiva. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I ask you to leave a valid editorial, as this position is reflected in the current law, at least it speaks of Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian enterprises, and the word "Ukraine" is not thrown out. I realize there's already a desire to tear Ukraine apart as a state, tear it apart and leave it behind, not even a name. Yet, I insist that the necessary amendments be excluded, leaving a valid editorial that today advocates the rights of our citizens. Once again, the Earth Code was adopted under extreme conditions in order to protect the interests of landowners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u45	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. I'll bet you an amendment 1109. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:56:39]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1111, Crybaby. Don't insist. The next is 1120, National Deputy Ivchenko. Please, 1120, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u46	You missed my 1115 and 1116. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u47	I missed them because they're accounted for, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'd like you and I to think about who we're opening up the agricultural land market for. We have here clearly in this law to provide for the protection of national interests and the protection of a national producer. My colleagues, I want to remind you that at the risk of this law, organics become involved. They're hundreds of millions of dollars, you could say, they've invested in their lands, they've certified land, they've given their land directly, and now we're not giving them the priority right to buy land. Colleagues, we don't give this law the priority of buying land to animals, and we also put this sector at risk. Let's think about it ten times before we adopt such anti-constitutional laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u49	An amendment of 1120 national deputies Ichchenka and Mejdić is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:38]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1121. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u50	Honorary colleagues, one of the pre-election promises, were conducting polls or referendums to consult with Ukrainians, why not do what is not recorded in your pre-election program today. The question today is: Who will belong to the Ukrainian land, and how will the agricultural sector develop? Do you not want to ask the Ukrainians to hold a referendum to finally tell the Ukrainians if they want to sell Ukrainian land to tell them whether they want this land to be bought by foreigners; do they want to buy this land by latifundists and big oligarchs? Colleagues, this law is an exclusive victory in money: whoever gives more money will buy Ukrainian lands. There's no farmer here, there's no small-scale farmer. There's no family here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u51	Amendment 1121 of the national MP Ichchenka is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:13]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 1124. Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. I very much appreciate that Mr. Ruslan, as a lawyer, knows that democracy is a dictatorship of procedure and respects in this sense the right of opposition to the submission of amendments and does not manipulate the fact that it is some outright abuse. Regrettably, some of your colleagues, including lawyers, have seen the abuse of the law in this regard. Now about again our bill that we're looking at. Once again, I am convinced that in today's conditions, everyone in this room can discuss anything, because everyone sees that today's the main concern of our nation is the security situation, and the critical absolute situation in the economy, and the budget, with the lack of income. In these circumstances, some major reform aimed at substantial changes in the ownership of huge amounts of national resources is not just criminal, it's just stupid. We don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u53	The vote is amended by 1124 national deputies Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:01:50]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 1125, National Deputy Koltunović, National Deputy Zagradni. Who's it gonna be? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first thing I would like to point out is that we have paralysed those strategic priorities of land policy, which was in several bills, we have made the right calculations. And we've seen that we have, for example, in gross domestic product, if brothers, today there is a 9.3 percent share. In the structure of GDP, by the production method, this indicator is going to go down, the agricultural index is going to go down. Increasing the raw materials of the national economy, if we're talking about food production, exports of raw materials, grains and so on. So in similar draft laws, I'm going to talk about the concept in general, and then we're going to go into the revisions, it would be important to predict appropriate safeguards that would make it impossible: (a) raw exports or reduce them; on the other hand, exports of processed products, finished food, if we're talking, irrigated elements and so on. But this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u55	I am voting on the amendment of 1125 national deputies Koltunović and Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:32]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1128. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u56	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorary colleagues, the whole country in Locdown, the enterprises are closed, directly our entrepreneurs are suffering damage in connection with the closure of businesses. People can't get together. Today, the Supreme Council, in violation of all the standards that exist today and in fact the recommendations of the Ministry of Health, has assembled 450 deputies to extend the Law on the Market of the Earth. Half the law today speaks of the sale of the land directly and of those who are going to buy the land today. Sadly, this law does not answer whether the land will still be purchased by farmers, small farms, and family farms. This law says that this land will be purchased directly by those with money. Colleagues, we can't let them monopolize our Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u57	Amendment 1128 of People’s Deputies Ichchenka is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:11]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1129, National Deputy Ivchenko. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u58	Colleagues, and colossal corrupt devices, are directly under this law today. I'll talk about these changes and put them on confirmation. Well, today, colleagues, local authorities can't accept hundreds of thousands of orders from the corrupt leaders of the Dergeokadastre. You've been given data today, and the APK minister tells us that hundreds of thousands of hectares have been removed from state property. In fact, the country has been robbed. And today the minister does not want to accept appropriate orders. What's going on? You offer corruption rights in this law to hundreds of thousands of people now come to the mayors and heads of united territorial communities. Colleagues, this is a colossal corruption that needs to be tackled. And let's go with you guys, let's go through these changes. I'll call them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u59	An amendment of 1129 national MP Ichchenka is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:39]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 1142, Vlasenko. Will you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u60	When there is nothing to say, the majority talk about legislative spam. I want to say that Bill 2194 itself is a classic legislative spam because this bill has nothing to do with the interests of Ukrainian citizens. It protects foreigners, gives them additional opportunities. It protects foreign legal persons, gives them additional opportunities. It destroys the state's ability and control over the strategic stockpile of agricultural land. He has nothing to do with the interests of the people. Before this bill was adopted, no one asked Ukrainian citizens whether they wanted the so-called market for land when everything would in fact be passed on to large corporations and banks at public markets. Therefore, I ask you to support my amendment and the bill will not be supported in general. Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u61	Amendment 1142 of the People’s Deputy Vlasenko is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:23]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1143. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The position of the Fatherland faction on opening the agricultural land market is as follows. We're here to ask the Ukrainian citizens first if they want the so-called agricultural land market, which is not really a market. Secondly, and even if Ukrainian citizens say that yes, such a market is needed, this market needs to be built on the basis of principles such that the primary right to use agricultural land is given to Ukrainian farmers and that they have this right to rent. And if the owners of the pies wanted to sell them, the Ukrainian State would be obliged to buy such pies at a market price. This is Fatherland's position. Therefore, we are in charge of renting the land to all farm subjects who have the right to farm on Ukrainian agricultural land and primarily to Ukrainian farmers. That's what my 1043 is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u63	A vote is taken on amendment 1043 of the Vlasenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. 1043 now. One, one, I'm sorry. [[11:09:58]] For-75 Amendment 1143, for -75. The decision is not taken. What kind of correction are you talking about? Excuse me. 1141, Bondarev. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u64	The Fatherland faction, Bondarev Constantine. I would like to remind the distinguished nationalists as well as government officials that we are facing a tremendous threat today. Today, a Russian aggressor concentrates troops, not on the border with Ukraine, but on Ukrainian territory. And what, you think the investors in turn are lining up to invest here? No, it's not. Just speculative capital. Today, there is no money in Ukrainian agriculture to buy land. Today, conditions are very bad to open up the earth’s market. The Fatherland faction requires a referendum to ask the Ukrainian people whether they want to sell Ukrainian land and whether it is dangerous at this time and convenient for them. So first, a referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u65	A vote is taken on amendment 1141 of the Bondarev People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:55]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1148, Schuster. Oh, my God. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, I'm sorry. Nestor Ivanovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is that we do not prefer land trade. I believe that if there is ever a question of selling land, that all those who will take part in the trade will have equal opportunities, and raise the price regardless of who will sell – the state or the private owner. And, of course, there is a question. Please tell everyone that the issue of land sales will be discussed in a referendum. I know there's even started to be a collection of signatures for the organization of the referendum. Is it weak for the President of Ukraine to exercise his constitutional right and to initiate the referendum itself so that people do not torture themselves or collect 3 million signatures or ask people in fear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u67	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Amendment 1148, national deputies Shufrich, Kiwa, is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:38]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 1151, Lukashev. Pauline, is it? Will you insist? Please, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u68	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, my right refers to the need to amend paragraph 2 of part two of article 135 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, where I insist that after the words "land trade organiser" be added the words "which is included in the list of land areas of state and municipal property or rights to them at land trades, which are displayed at land auctions." In fact, the key position with which we stand and consistently defend each claim is to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens in order to prevent the sale of land to foreign citizens, to large transnational companies that would completely destroy Ukrainian agriculture, to destroy the Ukrainian farmer. We also insist that similar bills should be considered in the Supreme Council Hall only after a nationwide referendum such as that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u69	An amendment of 1151 national deputies Lukshev and Pavlovka is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:20.]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Kowalov, don't insist. Are you insisting? 1153.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u70	Dear Chairman, I would like to insist on the five orders that go on -- 1153, 1158. As far as 1153 is concerned. I would like to point out that from this high rostrum we were also told that 14 percent of VAT is good for manufacturers and is good for processors. But life showed that in three months we saw a complete stop in production. This will be the case with Bill 2194, especially in part of the predominant right to purchase agricultural land. What's that going to be? We'll review again after this law is passed, if it's adopted in the walls of this room, we'll re-examine this overwhelming right. I would like to urge the national MPs once again to learn this question, to study it perfectly, and to make a decision for themselves, whether to vote for it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u71	Tell me, please, and I can put it. Dear colleagues, I don't see a national MP. Step away from the aisles, please. I can put all these five amendments together, right, without a word, right? Let's do five in a row, and there'll be other adjustments. I'll give you one more minute and then we'll put it in. Amendment 1153 of Kovalova is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:14]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Then from 154th to 158th, I give you one minute and I put them in order. Yeah? Please, Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u72	I also want to address the agrarian committee. Right now we're looking at bill 2194 in this room. Why aren't we in this room looking at a bill on privatization of state-owned enterprises, which is actually a corrupt hydrodrome? And in my district at D.C., the Great Klins are already waiting for this bill to be passed. This bill has already been passed in the first reading. Why is the second reading currently not going into the hall? If possible, please give an answer to the chairman of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u73	Now I'm putting it in order, and then the committee head will give it, because it can only sound the official position of the committee. Do you want to answer that, yes? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u74	Dear colleague, your rights are amendments that change size if I'm not mistaken, a guarantee fee, they're rejected, and it's not clear why you're offering different guarantees to the same article with five different rights. And as for the law that you're talking about, he's currently on the committee's agenda, second reading, and then he's going to go to the hall. It's 2194.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u75	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. We know it's 2194. We haven't lost any logic in our sessions yet. The 1154 amendment of the Kovalova People’s Deputy is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:07]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1155 of the People's Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:30]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 1156 people's deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:51]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 1157 National Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:11]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next 1158, National Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:32]] For-73 The decision is not taken. You don't insist on the rest of the math changes, do you? Thank you. The next amendment is 1188. National Deputy Volosin Oleg Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to take a brief look at the situation in the Ukrainian financial sector today. Obviously, under today's conditions, in order for our, in fact, farms to acquire large areas of land, and this is about the launch of the land market already this year, they had to have access to "price loans", which is not at all seen in today's financial situation. Obviously, today 'price loans' can only be granted by foreign banks. Moreover, we, and this has been discussed a lot, in the land market bill itself, did not impose any safeguards against the fact that if the land was taken as collateral by banks, then, after the creditor had failed and the bank took away that the bank, as a third party, could not resell the land to foreign legal persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u77	Thank you. The 1188 amendment of the People’s Deputies of Volosin and Slavicsky is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:56]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1202. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich and Kiva Ilja Volodymyrovich. Who's it gonna be? You, Nestor Ivanovich? Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u78	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please leave a valid draft of the bill, but I can't help but notice the following. Today we will meet for the next session and the next session, which at the request of the opposition, we will certainly take part in and we will today fight for lower tariffs and refunds on tariffs and electricity prices for our citizens. And then the next next session, which is initiated by the "servants", has a very interesting agenda. By the way, the Act of Ukraine amending the Law on the Status of the Garrison and Watchkeeping Services of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, attention to military burial ritual (No. 4636-1). Please tell me, in today's conditions, how to hide is the most important thing.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u79	Amendment 1202 of the People’s Deputies of Shufrich and Kiwia is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:51]] For-61 The decision is not made. Next amendment 1206. National MP Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u80	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to say that those people who wrote the Earth Code (Novakovsky, Trekjak) directly wanted one single product to protect and protect Ukrainian land. Today, we are not protected by this law. Farmers today will not be able to buy this land. They can't because farmers don't have money, half of them are credited, or even most of them, they took loans for the sower. And today, all farmers' associations demand to move the beginning of land reform directly, as you say, and I say, the market of land. My colleagues, believe me, we have to do nothing wrong, but we have to make sure that the Ukrainian manufacturer can calmly buy land and calmly manage it, not bablo, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u81	A vote is taken on amendment 1206 of People’s Deputies Ivchenka and Mejdić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:29]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next 1207. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, you're going to ask us why we're being so direct about the amendments -- but because all the complaints filed by the Fatherland faction are mostly rejected, most of them have not been discussed on the committee. And we'd like you, colleagues, to hear what we're saying and what we're defending. And when we talk about especially valuable land, and when we talk about that we have a lot of land that's not cadastre, and we're proposing that this law recognize them as unequity and debasing them directly under private property. Colleagues, when we talk about the corruption things that are written in this law today, a lot of "hotels," including millions of "hotels." These people who have been robbing Ukrainians since they were 14 years old on the ground, they've put these "hotels" here. So, colleagues, we need to think with you about what's in this law and how we're going to protect Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u83	A vote is taken on amendment 1207 of the People’s Deputy Ichchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:58]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1208, Lukashev, Pavlovenko. Pavlenko, please, Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u84	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, in fact, my ruling is on article 136 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, and I insist on removing part 2-1. This is a principle of right, as is the majority of the rights imposed by representatives of our faction, to protect Ukrainian land, to protect Ukrainian peasants, to protect Ukrainian citizens from their land. Regrettably, under current conditions, where decentralization is under way, divided into OTG, when there has been a change in the area with no proper authority and functions, where unfortunately the organizational and methodical ability of most ministries is extremely weak, to make similar land changes, to make changes in the country -- well, in my opinion, it looks criminal. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u85	Amendment 1207 shall be put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:29]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1210. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The position of the Fatherland faction on the land law is as follows. We believe that it is essential to hold a referendum first and in accordance with articles 13 and 14 of the Ukrainian Constitution to ask the owner, in the Ukrainian people, how, in what form, he wants to manage his property. If the Ukrainian people say that yes, as the owner of the land, I want to manage the Ukrainian land, then we need to adopt a law that will ensure to the Ukrainian people that Ukrainian farming is the dominant right to use agricultural land as a lease. And if they want to sell pies, the state is obliged to buy these pies at a market price. It is in this ideology that all of our amendments are made, including Amendment 1210, which I ask you to support, and the bill itself does not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u87	A vote is taken on amendment 1210 of the People’s Deputy Vlasenko. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:59]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 1211, Vlasenko. Don't insist, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u88	1212, Crybaby. Don't insist. 1217. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, in fact, we continue to insist on our work. And our consistent task is to protect Ukrainian citizens and not to sell land to foreigners in order to preserve the opportunity for future generations to feel like Ukrainian citizens, the owners of this land. Actually, that's exactly what this is all about. Once again, we insist that the laws relating to the land market, the sale of land, should be considered only after the Ukrainian people have spoken their word — whether for it or against — through the U.S. referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u90	A vote is taken on amendment 1217 of the national deputies of Lukasheva, Pavlovka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:22]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1219. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, as we examine how the central authorities and local authorities work today, we can talk about the sufficient weakness of the institutional state today, the chaos in governance decisions. Thus to this day, there has been no final formation of the Agro-Industry Policy Department. In conditions of decentralization, when we analyze any direction of government policy, whether it's child rights, whether it's protection of older people, or even more land issues, we see that from the point of view of government, information, analysis, the lost primary link. And so, all the decisions that are being adopted in the center today, and including here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they are neither based on the ability to implement them, in terms of the protection of citizens, nor on the clear picture of the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u92	A vote is taken on the amendment of 1219 national deputies Lukshev and Pavlovka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:55]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1227. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, before the draft law could be considered at all, had to give a clear answer regarding clearly delimited powers, functions, and tasks of the newly created areas. The areas that now exist, unfortunately, do not fully understand what they are doing, what they are made for, and what their powers and ability to protect people are. The same thing, it was necessary to clearly distinguish and clearly establish the functions of each united territorial community. Create fully working both the Ministry and the authorities, and only then make any changes. In conditions where there are authorities today, both central and local, implementing this law, as well as opening up the agricultural market, will lead to serious violations, opposition, but the main thing is to lose the Ukrainian people. So please take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u94	Let's do it in the right direction first, if you don't mind. 1227, national deputy Lukashev, Pavlovenko The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:47]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1230. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u95	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Chairman, once again, I would like to remind you that we are meeting during the lockdown, in violation of all the recommendations of the Ministry of Health. I want to emphasize to you that we are setting an example for others that we can meet. Because many people say, "Why can the Supreme Council meet today and we can't make our last cents?" I want to remind you that a year ago, just like during the pandemic, at night, there were laydowns on the land market. But you haven't answered once: when exactly, Mr. Chairman, are you planning to hold a referendum on the sale of land to ask the Ukrainians how they feel about this reform you called land reform? And I call it a total sale of Ukrainian land, and farmers get nothing. Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u96	Since you have addressed me, I would like to remind you that if you open and read the President's already-signed Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, you can see a clear procedure in the referendum. And only on the basis and in the manner provided for by law can a referendum be held, not on the basis of a heated statement in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To that end, we are enacting laws to give order, grounds and opportunity for citizens of Ukraine to exercise their right to freedom of expression. Thank you. That's because you came to me. I'm not commenting, you came to me, I'm exercising my right. That's why 1230, the national MP Ivchenka. I'm happy to vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:06]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1231, National Deputy Ivchenko. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your sincere response. But I would like to remind you that under that law, the President also has the exclusive right to declare a referendum by his decree. It's written in President Greensky's Program. So please, let's ask the President to give his decree a referendum on the sale of land. That's the first one. The other one. "Paternity," of course, will follow all those norms, all those rules of the People's Law, and let's see how easy it is to hold a referendum. But we're gathering people. We're going to be gathering initiative groups and collecting signatures. And that's the second question that "Paternity" is always talking about -- a referendum on the land market on a national initiative. But the President has a chance today to order such a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u98	Vadim Evgenovich, do I have to answer to you? Answer. Then, with your permission, I'll tell you again. If you read the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, you will see that the President has no right to appoint a referendum on his own, but only on the basis, in the manner and within the limits provided for in the law, when 3 million signatures are collected and handed over to him. So let us sometimes read the laws adopted by the Supreme Council. Or vote for these laws, instead of using the good that others have stressed. Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 1231, National Deputy Ivchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:00]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next 1234, national deputy Lukashev, Pavlovenko Who's it gonna be? Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u99	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, a bill is designed to prevent the sale of Ukrainian land at no cost, as the initiators of the bill may want, or by the right of a richer or stronger one. That is, do everything and implement such tools to minimize opportunities for Ukrainian citizens, peasants, farmers to own the land. That's why it's important. In addition, we support our colleagues in the fact that under the All-U.S. Referendum Act, which has been signed, there are sufficient possibilities and reasons for the President to initiate a referendum and to continue to implement it accordingly. And unfortunately, so prescribed a law that it has a possibility that it has usually other, unfortunately, both political forces and citizens are sufficiently excluded from this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u100	You don't need me to answer either? You're just a person who's been running to the Constitutional Court, look, it's written in the Constitution, you know. That's not what we came up with. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to put 1234 national deputies Lukashev and Pavelek to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:46]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1239, Koltunović, Zagradni. Who's it gonna be? Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u101	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". I insist that my bill be taken into account. The essence of this amendment is this: to set a starting price for the sale of land which cannot be lower in terms of state and municipal property than an expert land assessment. I insist that my amendment put this amendment to the vote. And I ask the hall to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u102	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 1239, the national deputies of Koltunović and Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:57]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 1241, Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Head. By continuing the discussion, the issue is not in the procedures, but the issue in the President's political promise to consult the people on all the key issues. And he, the President, is obliged, in keeping with this promise, to do everything in his power to ensure that a referendum takes place under the law. But the President is doing nothing in this direction – in this political issue to the President. This is the first time. Secondly, Fatherland knows the procedure for holding a referendum. That's what my colleagues were talking about. We will hold a referendum in full compliance with the law and help the Ukrainian people. Because you're talking about good, but the Referendum Act is written in such a way that, in fact, ordinary citizens without the help of large political parties will not be able to carry out what you call a referendum. That's why it wasn't good, and that was your next piece of legislation. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Shall I answer you? You don't have to. In private chat, then, okay? 1241 votes. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:32]] For-66 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u105	1242, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u106	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear co-chairman, you have answered the first question and not answered the second question: when will you take advantage of your right as a majority and the President and turn to the Ukrainian people for a referendum on the land market? This is an important question for every Ukrainian. And I want to say that in this law, unfortunately, whoever has more money is going to win, not the Ukrainian farmer and the Ukrainian producers. This law doesn't even win territorial communities, because what you're handing over to the communities has been leased for decades. Crowds will not be given the right to rule this land, only tens of years from now will the communities be given orders. So please answer: When will you take advantage of your right to exercise power and directly contact the people about the holding of a referendum on the earth’s market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u107	1242 revisions, Yvchenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:02]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Vadim Evgenovich, next line, 1243. Don't you insist? You insist, I see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u108	I also want to remind you. I would also like to remind colleagues that the President, under the law he has signed, can act directly as the initiator of Chapters I, III and III, as stated by law. This means that you today have the opportunity to initiate an All-U.S. referendum on the land market. I ask colleagues that we do not adopt legislation without consulting Ukrainian citizens. We are representatives of the Ukrainians directly, and it is the Ukrainians who have to say their word in an all-Ukrainian referendum. Because it's a painful question, believe me, for every community, for every farmer and for every peasant. We all have salesmen. Who are the buyers of the Ukrainian land?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u109	I'm betting on a vote of 1243. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:32]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1244. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u110	My colleagues, look, this paper is about not allowing the sale of emphytevsis. Well, why do you want to do the emphyteusise auctions if we or you are launching the land market? If the land market goes, there is a buyer is a seller, or there is a direct sale of lease rights. Why do we again have the opportunity to take over Ukrainian land because of the emphyteusise? Many schemes have been built by land so to speak by latifundists and mobsters because of emphytevism about the theft of Ukrainian land. They bought this land through emphitheus, colleagues. And believe me, it's one way that this land, it's already passed directly to those people who paid money during the moratorium. So these are the adjustments that we can talk about with hundreds of people, including the corrupt ones that I'm going to talk about next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u111	A vote is taken on amendment 1244 by national deputy Yvchenka and Meidich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:10]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1245. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u112	Colleagues, it is important enough that the law gives the right to small farmers, to family farms in the first place, to buy their assignments and not lose their business. It's important that organics don't lose their business. These are strategically important agricultural development directions, in fact, in Ukraine. Colleagues, in this law, we do not give such people a superior right. If you ask, for example, are there, in Poltava's Agroecology, which processes organic agriculture by 6,000 hectares of land, and today the Swiss give 10,000 euros per hectare, the opportunity to buy at that price directly what they're processing their agriculture, they'll tell you no. And a lot of these organic productions today don't have the funds to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u113	1245. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:42]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1250, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The position of the Fatherland faction, which I have already pointed out, is as follows. We're just trying to make sure that the object of the sale is only the right to rent a land plot. We believe that if the owners of the pies want to sell them, they should be purchased by the state at market price, providing them with an opportunity to realize their ownership rights. At the same time, we think that the mechanism for selling emphyteus rights today is one of the most corrupt mechanisms that allows essentially to gain control of the land without its sale. So we think that this should be removed from this law. Once again, "Fatherland" is the first opportunity for Ukrainian farmers to take care of Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u115	I'll bet you $1,250. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:12]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Germany. Are you insisting? He insists. 1253.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we're coming with you, so quietly, to electronic commerce. Can you present our farmer today, our one-man, in the remote village of Cantau, and how will he feel about these electronics? It's a mockery of people. Do we not understand what we require in the law from the personal office of electronic directing and sharing as a subject of commerce? Will it be possible for a simple people to do so? Dear colleagues, what are we doing? From what summit do we look at people? I want us to work for people, not people. And that's why I want them to listen and stop this abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u117	I'm betting on a vote of 1253, Germany's Vasil Ivanovich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:45]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 1254, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u118	That's how I keep going. Let's stop bullying people. Dear colleagues, read the contents, the distinguished representatives of the turbots, don't make fun of people, first. And secondly, I would like to bring to your attention that, as a subject of reference to the Constitutional Court, we put before the fact that the Supreme Council and the President had been ignored the issue of selling land, which had already been decided in a referendum in 1991, where we said that it could not be the subject of the sale of land. The people said December 1, 1991. Whoever disobeyed and disobeyed that thought was you and me when we adopted this "marked" law. And so we went to the Constitutional Court, and he's on trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u119	I'm betting on a vote of 1254, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:27]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Torchty. Don't insist. 1259. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, surely, such matters as we are considering today are desirable and necessary and must be considered once the people have been identified in the U.S. referendum. And taking into account the extreme conditions under which the Earth Code was adopted, please leave the original edition of the Earth Codex. I'm going back to the question of convening two consecutive sessions today. One thing I understand is that we're going to fight for tariffs, for reducing them, for paying back the benefits. Please tell me, what is the need to gather for a second session to discuss the burial of our military personnel? Are you the one who inspires them in the face of the opposition that is now? Is it important to discuss and improve the burial of our military? Do you have a conscience? Instead of fighting for peace today, to keep them alive, you are improving the burial ritual protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u121	I'm betting on a vote of 1259. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:18]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Halimon. Don't insist. Lukashev, 1265. Pauline, 1265.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This amendment is aimed at enhancing the power of central power, in general state authority in Ukraine, because there is a weakness of power in the conditions in which the Ukrainian State exists today, when there is serious chaos in government. The rules of this law, if he, God forbid, is approved in the Supreme Council Hall, the villains will take advantage, the villagers will be deceived, the farmers will be deceived, and there will be no one to turn to and protect them. So once again, I insist on this and urge everyone to vote in favour of repealing this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u123	1265 to the vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:45.]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 1266.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u124	A Slavic request to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u125	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u126	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This right suggests leaving part three of article 137 of the Ukrainian Code of Land in its original form. That is, leave under the authority of the central executive authority such powers as the implementation of state policy in the field of land relations. But taking this opportunity, in the context of the chairman’s words about reading the law, it may not be enough for each MP to get to know the contents of the entire law prepared for the second reading. At the same time, we can see the content of the observations made by the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority, where, on the 30 pages, the Legal Office tells us that this bill contradicts the Constitution, the Constitutional Court's position, the position of the Constitutional Court, the position of the legal positions of the Constitutional Court, and the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, to our conviction, this law cannot be approved, but it can be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u127	I'm betting on a vote of 1266. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:15]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 12:00. There's a break for the 13th. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Please take your seats. Vlasenko. Don't insist. Lukashev. Don't insist. Voloshin. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Lukashev is. Pauline. 1274.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! An extremely important amendment, a principle. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u130	I'm betting on a vote of 1274. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:22]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Voloshin. Don't insist. Oh, there is. He insists. 1276.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u131	Please put, Head, to my vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u132	I'm betting on a vote of 1276. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:58]] For-32 The decision is not taken. 1277. Coltunovich. Can we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u133	Thank you, Mr. Head. I wanted to point out that in my previous speech, I've already talked about what we've calculated and calculated some predictive indicators about the impact of land reform on the so-called national economy, the structure of gross domestic product, the change in volume in export structure and so on. So this is about the commodity structure of the export. If we take the whole 20th year, we now have 45.1 percent or 22 billion dollars in cash, it's agricultural exports. It's a significant number. But if we take the share of food ready, that's only 6.8 percent or 3.3 billion dollars. According to our projections, this figure is going to go down. Instead, the portion of the grains that now amounted to 19.1 percent or 9.4 billion dollars in monetary terms is going to go up. This is in support of what we said was going to be an appropriate raw curve.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u134	I'm betting on a vote of 1277. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:30]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is Pavelenko, 1294.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Golovo, my fellow countrymen, this is actually a new law that seeks to protect the interests of Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian farmers. Regrettably, the bill, the sale of land to foreigners, and the creation of all conditions for the development of the Ukrainian village, the development of the Ukrainian agro-industry complex, were not destroyed by transnational companies or those who are already preparing to mass-gather Ukrainian land and take away the Ukrainian people of the future. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u136	I'm betting on a vote of 1294. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:39]] For-40 The decision is not taken. This crying. Don't insist. Tymoshenko. 1298, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The amendments are being considered, the draft bill is being considered, and throughout the entire day, we have received numerous calls and calls from the population of Ukraine and the rural area. Where people talk about the fact that the authorities are preparing to sell land, take away their living conditions, but are unable to provide any tests -- the possibility of testing in rural areas today is virtually impossible, or the vaccine that is broken. And unfortunately, this incompetence of organizational authority shows that the implementation of this law may eventually lead to even more negative consequences for Ukraine. So once again we turn: please, government, authority, do everything you can today to make everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u138	I'm betting on a vote of 1298. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:16]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit 1299, Slavic Antonina Kerimovna Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u139	Give Oleg the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u140	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u141	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Again, once again, when we discuss this bill, we see that there is a intention to launch the land market in the form of an imperfect one in which the bill was adopted, and in these time frames. I mean, when today, I think most Ukrainians think about vaccination problems, with the spread, more specifically, with the expansion of the coronavirus, which is the result of the failure of vaccination by the current government, the colossal tariffs, which have not been reduced, and since April 1st they've been raised. In these circumstances, it is clear that no development of agriculture will occur from the earth’s market, and only those who have accumulated either speculative capital or capital that has been obtained through corruption will buy the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u142	I'm betting on a vote of 1299. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:53]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yvchenko, 1308.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u143	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to remind you of the European experience when almost all of Europe's countries have undertaken land reform in such a way that farmers have won. But there were countries, such as Latvia and Lithuania, that could not fully protect the local manufacturer. And so today, local farmers, and I was in Lithuania myself, driving farms with a group of national deputies of the past call, these farmers are renting land to foreigners or companies that then bought land in Lithuania. Colleagues, we'll have the land market in six months. A year later, we will be able to buy companies with limited liability, that is, legal persons. This, believe me, will disrupt the entire balance and make the corporation of the Ukrainian farmer and the Ukrainian manufacturer. It's a very bad law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u144	I'm betting on a vote of 1308. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:31]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next item. Voloshin. 1309, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u145	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. My colleagues, I would like to say that the law is harmful today. And one thing you can understand is that companies with limited liability sell their corporate rights. And no country can trace who these corporate rights will belong to. And that's how they're going to involve cheap costs. And it's true that our farmers and small farms will not be competitive with cheap money. Today, the financial and credit system is not ready without being forced to give money to buy land. We're going to have a lot of problems, colleagues. We have a corporation of Ukrainian farming. This is when those who do not belong to agriculture will receive a frenzy of profits. Think about what you're doing. And in general, go to the Ukrainians and ask them if they agree to sell Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u146	1309. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:05]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 1310, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Head. There is no country in a world where the state does not regulate or affect either sectoral or relevant sectors of the national economy in one way or another. There is no natural market for today in any country of the world. We are offered a model that will be followed by the natural dissipation of Ukrainian land for the benefit of those who will have more money to buy it without excluding foreigners. Not by excluding foreigners or by excluding foreign banks. "Paternity" offers a completely different model. After the referendum, in the event that Ukrainian citizens support market openings, a market that is protected by the State in relation to the Ukrainian farmer should be introduced, which should have priority in renting Ukrainian agricultural land. And the owners of the pies must sell the pies to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u148	Amendment 1310 of the People’s Deputy Vlasenko is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:35]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1313. Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I think everyone in the media today has seen and discuss the interesting news coming from the President's Office regarding the American Patriot complex. But that's where the discussion goes a little bit wrong. Because if you look closely, as Mr. Jermak said, it's actually an insult to the Americans, which, you see, we're protecting you, and the complexes are located only in Poland, not in Ukraine. Why did I mention that? Because I remember clearly when we approved the Law on Earth and our faction took a firm stand against it, we had already promised the golden mountains of the IMF, but that did not happen. And now you also realize that if you don't vote now, there might not be any credit by the end of the year. So why now make decisions that are completely contrary to the interests of most Ukrainians, if all Americans are going to leave again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u150	A vote is taken on amendment 1313 of the People’s Deputies of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:55]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next line is 1314. Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Head. Continuation of theme. There are two other amendments to the fact that the results of our research on the impact of land reform on the national economy. The agricultural index was calculated in Ukraine. Dynamic rows first. First of all, in January and February of this year, we're already down 6.1 percent, last year, I've already talked about it today, 11.5 percent drop. By product categories, companies: enterprises have reduced agricultural production by 14 percent and the population by 6.8 percent. If we take it in terms of production: that's plantation minus 13.9; animal farming minus 12.6. We're going to have cuts, according to our projections, once again, in the number of farm animals, in the rate of decline in the agricultural production index in the livestock sector. There's going to be crop cuts, and that's exactly what we said, in the raw economy. This is also one of the negative consequences of implementing such a reform without.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u152	You insist on voting, don't you? There is 1314 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy, Koltunović and Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:31]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1330. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u153	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to tell you that the very important standards of decentralization proposed by Fatherland are very important. In particular, you know that there are leases on state land, but they are for 20, 30 years, by 2042. And that's the kind of land you're offering your law to pass on to the communities. Parenthood suggested that after 7 years, communities could break their respective leases or raise their rent rate, which is set at a minimum interest rate. That is what our adjustments are saying. And unfortunately, you don't support these changes. Then tell the community what you're giving: the leases that are 30 years in, and only 30 years from now, they'll be able to.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u154	A vote is taken on amendment 1,330 of Ichchenka’s national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:07]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1336. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u155	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, a new bill aimed at strengthening the functions of the state authority, strengthening the power of the state to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, because, frankly, the people who address us are indignant at the fact that the authorities are unrepentantly confident that it will carry out this land reform, that it is capable of doing everything to be fair and transparent. But people have a huge lack of confidence in the authority that has failed to provide all Ukrainian citizens, especially in rural areas with tests, masks, protection of people, and necessary treatment today. I'm not talking about the complete failure of vaccination. So let's face it, put down the review of these laws, hold a referendum, and then talk about land reform in a stable country. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u156	I bet on a vote of 1,336 amendments, the national deputies of Lukasheva, Pavlovka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:46]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1337. Hairline, please. Slavic, please. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, this right is proposed to leave the central authorities of the executive branch to authorize the implementation of state policy in the field of State control in the agri-industrial complex. We don't quite understand the logic of a profile committee that didn't count it. I would also like to remind you all that so far there are at least a few submissions in the Constitutional Court concerning the constitutionality of the Agricultural Land Market Act. Similarly, the Constitutional Court considers the submission regarding the official interpretation of the Constitution as national wealth. Therefore, to our conviction, it would be entirely appropriate to await the decisions of the Constitutional Court on these matters, which are relevant to today’s bill and not to consider it today. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u158	Definitely. I'm betting on the vote of 1337 People's Deputies of Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:11]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1338, is Shufrich, Kiwa. Who's it gonna be? Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u159	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, in this amendment, we suggest leaving the order already reflected in the current Code of Earth. And to be honest, I don't understand why other organs have to be involved in this relationship. It's already settled. To be honest, my colleagues were right today to say that such complex reforms should inspire trust in people. How can we trust the authorities today, which should be the most important and simple issue now, namely, the fight against COVID and vaccination, as it turns out that the Ministry of Health today has no money to buy vaccines. Three more months ago, we accepted the budget, it barely came into force, it went one quarter. It's like we've already bought 30 million vaccines and we need another 6.5 billion, as the minister asks us to buy the next 20 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u160	I'm willing to vote 1338. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:44]] For-54 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u161	1339, Crying. Don't insist. Shufrich, 1341.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Head. In this amendment, we define the reasons why you may lose the right to use the land if they are not removed within the 30-day period of notice found by the state-authorized inspector. Of course, all of this is important if today was a real opportunity to sell land at a real price. Literally in our neighbors, in small Hungary, which is seven times smaller than the territory and four times smaller than the population of that country, the GDP is the same as us, and the land, attention, is ten times higher. That's why there's such issues to be settled. And today we're going to force people to sell their land rations for nothing in order to ensure that they are alive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u163	I'm betting on a 1341 vote, Schuffritch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:22]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Pavlovsky, 1343 Oh, no? Don't insist. Volosin, 1344.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I think everyone understands that those who believe that Ukrainian citizens today are in that financial and moral state, when they are able to act cautiously on their own ponds, you can see what is happening with the illegal mining of amber, with deforestation. Clearly, criminal groups are behind this, but direct crime against nature is committed against national wealth by the hands of ordinary Ukrainians. And it's done because if you're talking to these people, they're saying, what else are we going to live for? So they don't even think about their future in an elementary way, not to mention the future of children, and we want people to be able to actually use their land in a rational way. Of course, they're happy to sell it now, even though it's $2,000, because, unfortunately, two thousand dollars for the average Ukrainian is huge money, and it's nothing for international speculators. That's why we're determined and we're protesting against the launch of the Earth market, not even in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u165	I would like to vote on the amendment of the 1344 People's Deputies of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:00]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 1346. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u166	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The amendment of the principle, it provides and I propose part two of article 144 of the Ukrainian Code of Land to exclude, and I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u167	I am voting on the amendment of 1346 National Deputies of Lukasheva, Pavlovka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:48]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1348. Royal, please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers! The position of our team "The Opposition Platform for Life" remains unchanged. We are confident that we cannot sell Ukrainian land for nothing right now. We address the halls, colleagues, we have the opportunity to join forces with you to protect people today in order to support Ukrainian families, to support those people who are so awaiting an adequate parliamentary decision, and instead, not the first time we are considering a bill aimed at selling Ukraine for no price. So we are addressing you, stopping this farce, and moving on to topical issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u169	I'm betting on the vote of 1348 National Deputy Royal. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:25]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1349. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u170	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Amendment 1349 provides for the addition of Article 144 of the Earth Code by the following wording: "If a person who has committed an offence has not carried out a re-indication within the time limit specified by the State inspector on the cessation of the offence, the State authority for the use and protection of land or the State environmental control authority shall refer to the relevant executive authority, or the local self-government authority for the cessation of the right to use the land." That's the kind of formulation I insist on. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u171	I am voting on amendment 1340, national deputy Lukashev and Pavelenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:38]] For-51 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1350. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u172	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, the law proposes to supplement article 144 of the Ukrainian Land Code with the following wording: "The decision of the executing authority or the local self-government authority to terminate the land use right may be charged by the land user in court." It is both this and the previous remedies that are designed to make it strong and effective, both the central authority responsible for this policy and the local authorities, so that people can understand and feel that there is a power in the country that can protect their interests. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u173	I am voting on the amendment of 1,350 national deputies Lukashev and Pavelek. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:52]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1354, Nimchenko Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you that exactly 1354 of the amendment is about what, as a latent form, made it possible to confiscate land. Look, if a person gets ownership of the land, but he can't own it, he has to sell it. And the second is surpluses, surpluses of land, and look how it goes, according to a court decision at land trade. Please state the legal nature of the court's decision at the land trade. It's not an abracadabra, it's a clinic in the legal system of land relations regulation. So I'd like the authors to see what they're writing and I'm asking you to consider our proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u175	I bet on the vote, Vasil Ivanovich, your proposal in Amendment 1354 for the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:28]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 1355. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, here's the question of who acquires ownership if he gives someone credit under this land. And look what the legislator there is, and we're with you, he suggests: over the course of the year, to solve the issue of its implementation (as the owner of this land). Say, please, there are common civilist foundations of property rights and we said, "Holy of Saints, private property." Please tell me, what standard will be crossed out by the constitutional reference and the fundamental principle of the integrity of private property rights? And so if we write standards, they have to conform to the rules of the Constitution, no less, no more. And the second question is the question of confiscation. What is the question of confiscation? Write it down as a pay confiscation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u177	I'm betting on the 1355 National Deputies of Germany and Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:56]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1356, Kiwa, Shufrich. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, are you? Vasil Ivanovich, you're not here. I'm sorry. Nestor Ivanovich, please 1356.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u178	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. A corresponding amendment also applies to the principle of forfeiture of property in cases where someone has received and has no right to land, such as inheritance. During the year, he must be deprived of such a right. Today I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we must listen to the people of Ukraine and leave their positions exclusively. A national referendum on the timing of the market is now under way. And perhaps it would be right to postpone this law, to stop its consideration, perhaps even to vote and return to the new wording of this law, waiting for a referendum, which so many have promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u179	I am voting on the amendment of 1,356 national deputies Shufrich and Kiwi. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:33]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1359. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u180	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues! I'm even the head of the committee in the first place. Mikola Tarasovich, please explain the relevance and necessity of making changes to a whole series of articles that are crossed out by another bill, 2195. At the same time, these two bills were prepared comprehensively for the second reading on the committee that you lead, on the agrarian committee. Amendments to articles 135, 136, 137 are redrafted by Bill 2195. Bill 2195 proposes that these articles be redrafted. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that "The Servants of the People" accuses the opposition to spam even though they actually create this spam. Some articles are now being considered, and the next bill will try to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u181	I'm betting on the vote for amendment 1359 of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:07]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 1360, Puzichuk. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u182	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would like to hear an answer from the head of the profile committee. And that's what makes me and the Ukrainian citizens feel that silence is a confession of guilt. That by such silence you confirm that Bill 2195 is in conflict with Bill 2194, it will create collegiates, disagreements. Explain where people will be able to defend their interests. What courts? You haven't completed your judicial reform today. The Constitutional Court is in deep crisis after opening a constitutional guide for the title "Fatherland." After that, there was considerable pressure on the Constitutional Court. Please give an answer so that the citizens of Ukraine understand what is involved, the first part of the question, the contradictions. And the second. What you're doing to motivate acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u183	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u184	Dear colleague, when you talk about contradictions, give an example, then you can reason on it. But if you're saying in general that there are contradictions, I'm telling you in general that there are no contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u185	I'm betting on the vote of the 1360 People's Deputy Puziyczuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:56]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next up, 1361, Volosin. Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u186	Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u187	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 1361, the national deputies of Volosin and Slavicka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:27]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next, 1365. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u188	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, I'm addressing you, not my colleagues from the majority. What is happening today? The situation in the east, the peak of the epidemic, the lack of drugs, the lack of tests. What does a monogamy do? Instead of taking this bill off the table and considering those bills that are actually meant to protect Ukrainian citizens, today the majority is doing their best to sell the most valuable thing in the Ukrainian people is Ukrainian land. Ladies and gentlemen, in a war - torn country, there is no trade in land. Take this bill off the table and do not do anything as shameful as you do. Thank you. And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u189	I'm betting on the vote for amendment 1365 of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:54]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 1373, Puziychuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Unfortunately, honourable citizens today show the realities of where we live, where we live, where we live. In 2019, when you went to the elections, you believed that your vote would change your life for the better. What do we see today? Today we see that there are bills that aim to destroy Ukrainian farmers, to destroy the settlement network, bills that aim at destroying Ukrainian peasants. I strongly urge you not to support this shameful bill. Don't stain yourself. You're going to go into history as people who sold Ukrainian land. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u191	I'm betting on the vote on the amendment of 1373 of the Puzijczuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:29]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1377. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u192	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." In fact, it is an extremely important amendment that applies to the 145th article of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Why? Why do we consistently insist on what we are doing? Because it seems, well, to put it mildly, strangely and inappropriately to consider this law in the circumstances in which there is a country today. The country is in a deep socio-economic crisis. Let me just remind you of a few figures at some macroeconomic rate, the drop parameters have been going on for 12 months in a row. The first quarter of this year: Similarly, we see serious industrial problems, the fall of more than 4 percent, the worst things going on in engineering, coal industry, metallurgy. And actually, in agriculture, the fall in January-February was more than 6 percent. I mean, the poor country, they're poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u193	I am betting on the vote of 1377 national deputies of Lukasheva, Pavlovka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:04]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1378. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u194	Continue the previous revision. And once again, the decline in key macroeconomic parameters, the failure of economic and social policy, has primarily affected the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. Ukrainian citizens, whom this year the authorities want to open up the land market and seem to be able to buy land. For what? Some indicators of social policy and a deep social crisis that confirm the debt of the population, for example: housing services have increased to over 82 billion dollars, and wages at the beginning of March have increased by more than 3 billion dollars. Overcoming the poverty era has so far resulted in a reduction in the real cost of living, which today amounts to a pitiful 78 dollars and a minimum pension of less than 63.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u195	1378 is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:36]] For-57 Almost. Next issue, 1379, Sphenov. Don't insist. Royal 1383.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers! We are continuing our consideration of the bill, which is still a shield for the protection of Ukrainian land. And it can be said that there are hours left, maybe a few days before this authority gets the right to sell out Ukraine. "The opposition platform for life" insists that a referendum be held. And we know that the President signed the Referendum Act. And that's the question that should be the first, the referendum, and ask people if they want their homeland to be sold out today, and only then make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u197	1383 Committees are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:13]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 1385, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, this is actually an extremely important amendment that applies to 145 articles of the Earth Code, which focuses on you, honourable colleagues, that in the context of this profound socio-economic crisis, poverty of people, when the authorities are actually struggling not with poverty, but with the poor, making them even poorer, but when this so-called land reform is implemented, it is obviously unacceptable to turn them into beggars or hired ones at all. In these circumstances, we understand why it was so important to impose sanctions on opposition, to destroy television channels. To make people less and less aware of the truth, they lived in a myth and a field. That's why I insist on my right. And I appeal to everyone not to vote for this law -- a law that destroys the country and impoverishes our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u199	1385. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:41]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 1386, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u200	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, decentralization is when we hand over the land to the communities. And you suggest that the land be handed over to the communities 10, 20, and 30 years later, in view of the fact that leases are concluded for relatively low interest rates. "Paternity" suggests that local self-government authorities be able to review the interest rate that is underperformed in most of these contracts and allow them to fill their own budgets of the united territorial communities. This is a real decentralization. And I'm addressing those deputies who really want to hand over land to territorial communities, to support the 1386 right. And seven years from now, communities will be able to review the cable conditions of the State Department or the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u201	1386, Yvchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:09]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 1387, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, then please tell us what decentralization in this bill is said when most of the land, 99 percent, is in a lease at an underpriced rent? And you don't let the communities manage and fill your budgets. You're giving away 10-20 years from now that when the leases are done, they'll be able to make new ones. What do we do now? How can rural communities be filled with budgets, colleagues? That's pretty important -- to be able to take and break contracts directly in seven years, or to change the essential terms of the interest rate agreement, which is limited in most of these contracts. And I'm going to the local self-government authorities to let you know that today's opposition that the Fatherland is offering today is exactly the kind of thing that is needed today for decentralization and for decentralization.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u203	1387. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:35]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 1388.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u204	I've just read in the news a comment by the president's advisor, my very long-known Oleg Ustenka, on what the new loan of the IMF can only be obtained if the Supreme Council executes, i.e. approves a series of bills that the International Monetary Fund requires once again from us, and otherwise we need to prepare for the reduction of budgetary expenditure, and so on, by the way, home to social spending, budget. And this man really is an expert, he knows what he's talking about. So once again, for almost two years now, the Supreme Council has been working exclusively to satisfy the IMF's "hotels" to get some small sum of money. Let us remember how we approved the Law on the Earth. At the time, the President told us directly: this is what we need, because the IMF requires it. Now it's new again. So this list is infinite. And until Ukraine takes a tougher position in these negotiations, there will be constantly new conditions to just draw on credit and not even lend it, let alone live on credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u205	1388. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:06]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 1393, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that the earth is the only natural source of our nation's existence. Please tell me if there's no land. (Reporter, enough yawning, you give an answer.) If you sell the land, who will be the only natural source of existence? Unfortunately, you can't answer that. And I'll tell you what's behind this is the issue of giving up national interests, that's what this is all about. Then on the night of submission, unfortunately, the Heads of State, our President, you passed this law. And what does the story say about this? For today, you include a second series: as from July 1st, release and open the market. This is a disgraceful phenomenon. And that's why we're asking you to take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u207	1392. 1393, I'm sorry. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:41]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 1394, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u208	And over and over and over. Dear colleagues, respected authors and supporters of this bill, please open the Constitution. You will find there that we must work in honor of the worthy standard of living of our people. And you, by your own bill, you make fun of yourself, you deprive yourself of the right to have a source of existence, which is the earth. That's the first one. And the second. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I must say that, as of today, this is already connected to the IMF -- we have to adopt this bill, otherwise we will not be given another tranche. That's what politics is all about. That's the whole strategy: we've become a request, and now we're going to become one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u209	I'm betting on a vote of 94, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:11]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Shufrich, 1395.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u210	Thank you, Mr. Head. Let's stop this shabbash, first create the real value of the earth, so that people don't be forced to sell it for nothing, but actually rob it. And tell me, what are your priorities today? Today, your top priority is to steal people's land, take advantage of the situation, knowing they have nothing to eat, to force them to sell for nothing. And the second priority, right now in the next session, is to change and improve the military ritual of burying our military personnel. You don't have a conscience! Let us fight for our military to live, to work on the earth, and to grow bread, not to create better burial conditions for them. Shame! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u211	1395, Schofrich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:37]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 1396, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u212	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm pointing out that "Paternity" has a systematic view of the legislative regulation of the circulation of agricultural land. First of all, we need to hold a referendum, as the President of Ukraine has repeatedly promised, on the basis of the law that was passed by the Supreme Council and signed by the President. The other one. If the Ukrainians say "yes" to the circulation of agricultural land, then we need to implement such a model of the market so that the first and the first to be protected is the Ukrainian farmer, not foreigners, foreign banks and foreign legal persons. And "Paternity" is also totally against continuing to use hidden mechanisms like emphytevism and superficies. Because today it is one of the biggest corrupt shadow mechanisms in the existence of control for latifundists over agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u213	1396. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:08]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, 1397.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u214	Thank you. Reverend Mr. Head, another 1 000 731 amendments out of 3,000 128 are in front of me, so I have the opportunity to argue and present negative consequences and prognosis for the implementation of land reform. I've already talked about the commodity structure of exports, GDP, the agricultural production index, and I'd like to say that there are some serious risks as a result of land reform in terms of inflationary processes, well, there's actually a term like stagfing. Stagflation is a decrease in production volume against rising prices. And we're already seeing galloping inflation, even in separate sectors -- hyperinflation. That's what's waiting for us as a result of the implementation of this land reform, I'm not talking about the derivatives of the budget and the financial aspects, the cuts in revenue to the budget, the downsizing of financial programmes, and so on. And certainly the rural area, the development of areas, rural areas, the real income of the population and others, I'm going to hear it in the next correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u215	I'm betting on a vote of 1398, Coltunovich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:38]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 1399, Lukashev. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u216	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the law, which applies to 148 articles of the Code of Land, is designed to strengthen the role and potential of the united territorial community in terms of promoting the interests of both the land and the interests of the inhabitants of the community. And it's also important in conditions where, in a centrally populated area of OTG, even less protected interests, unfortunately, in other settlements where old age is managed, the situation is very often that the mayor does not represent this community, is not a local village or village resident, but a "disposed parachutist" for not knowing whose interests to represent, but certainly not the interests of those living in this particular population. Under these conditions, land reform is dangerous, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u217	I'll bet you a vote of 1399. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:11]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Royal, 1400.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers! We all understand very well in what difficult circumstances our country is in today, and especially our people, Ukrainians. And our task with you today is to join forces to resolve the most important issues. The first is the return of peace to our country. And Parliament should not be on the side of this problem. The second question. Colleagues, you and I are simply under an obligation to resign the government today, a government that has failed all the development of the state. Well, the third key question is to support and protect people. If we do not unite our efforts. You and I understand how difficult it is for people today, so please stop this farce from selling out Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, next time, let's do it on the subject of amendment, or I can just ask the committee's position, the committee has nothing to answer. Okay? Thank you. I'll bet you 1400. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[2:02:59]] For-51 The decision is not taken. And if there was an issue, it would be 55. 1402, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, when it comes to property rights, imagine, the same foreign banks, they're going to buy across the border over 50 kilometers of this line. And how are we going to get them to our border? Have they thought about it or not? And then Ukraine becomes a "servet" (this is me for those who watch there and on the phone are looking for something from the prostitute area). Where do you lead Ukraine? And I'd like to pay attention to that, because for today, the leases that are about land, I'll tell you, they have nothing to do with common civilist norms, they're all ways of profit. Forty - nine years, and what will we expect? Here's a bullet we'll bring to Ukraine, more loyally, you've already brought it. We insist on our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u221	1402, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:36]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 1403, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u222	I'll keep going. As you return to your right to property, see what you are talking about. If we are the authors of a bill that becomes the regulator of land relations in the future, how do we look at fundamental principles being ignored here: what is the termination of ownership rights, what are lease contracts, what are sales contracts and ownership rights? We don't see the territorial community becoming the owner. A local authority. Who are the local authorities today? Whoever doesn't remember, I'll tell them. We had three land codes. Three, from 2000 to 2002. Why was he accepted three times? Because there were eyewitnesses or views of this as they are today. So we ask very much for our support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u223	1403. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:06]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 1404, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u224	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The appropriate law applies to the principle of land removal for social and other purposes. But today I want to point out that this issue is already settled in the current Earth Code. I don't understand why we're stressing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now. Are there no more important questions? Several factions have already proposed that this issue be removed from consideration, that it should be returned to what hurts all Ukrainians -- to resolve the issue of fighting the pandemic, about tariffs, about pensions. Should we lose? And we're willing to work, work and work, even in difficult conditions. But for what? For the derby? In order to rob people, take advantage of the situation and rob them. We believe that the issue of the earth’s market is not timely. More important is the question of coping with the underlying crisis, the tariff crisis, and the social crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u225	1404, I'll put it to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:35]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 1411, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u226	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. You know, this is literally today at the briefing in Brussels, my colleague, Dmitri Kuleb, once again, quite faithfully stated that the official Kiev is solely for the peaceful settlement of the conflict on Donbassa. But if that is so, if the Ukrainian authorities are really acting solely for a peaceful settlement, why are we not here today discussing those bills that are foreshadowed by the political part of the Minsk Accords? And we're even prepared for the fact that the nationalist factions would bring their 4,000 rights to these bills. And they would be willing to work day and night if the ruling majority really supported our desire to ensure a peaceful settlement of the conflict. Because today the situation is so serious that this frozen conflict can soon be defrosted so that all in this room and in the whole country will be left unscathed. I assure you. So I'm just very surprised that we're dealing with completely different issues here, ignoring the key -- a war that's still small today, and tomorrow can probably be big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u227	1411. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:12]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 1416, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u228	I'm going to take a minute and then, there's nine bars in a row, please put them to a vote, Dmitri Alexanderovich. So again, what I was talking about at the beginning of today's session, even though we have different positions with the ruling majority on the issue of land, and I was assured in the elections, as if then candidate Vladimir Zelensky had promised to create a market for land. Suppose, but he made a sure promise of peace and promised to fulfill the Minsk Accords. So again, I don't understand why we, together with the ruling majority today, don't consider the political component of the Minsk Treaties, the amnesty bill, the special features of the elections in the controlled territories, and the special status at last. And that's what's in the complex with other, a whole series of measures -- the downsizing of military hysteria, the rejection of other provocative actions, and so on, would ensure that we could plan things peacefully with you, the work by the end of the spring, and the summer, and not think about whether we have a bomb shelter here in Kiev at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u229	I'll bet you a vote. Just a few, right? 1416, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:48]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 1417. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:05]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 1418. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:23]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 1419. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:42]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Oleg Anatolyevich, I understand they're a little off the hook. Can we keep going in the right direction? Thank you. Solski, 1432 Don't you insist? Princely, 1450. Please turn on the microphone. 1449.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u230	Thank you. There's two revisions. I'll have one performance. Thus, the bill proposes that an article on especially valuable lands be excluded from the earthly codex. This, in turn, paves the way for fishing for lands of conservation. I, my colleague Solski, will give you an example from Lviv. We have between the village of Bilogorst, which is now part of Lvivské OTH, and the Vulnerable, there are peatland known to all. What is the city’s authority doing in the hands of mayor Sadov? They're taking out the trash and they're taking out the peatlands. Now because these are particularly valuable lands, the people of Bialogers made them open the reserves there, figure out who's doing it. Exclusion of this standard, from our point of view, is harmful. Please leave her alone and support two of my adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u231	I'm putting two of them to a vote right now, aren't I? Amendment number 1449. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:45]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next line is 1450, Princely. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:07]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Kirilenko, 1446. Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u232	Kirilenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, the presiding officer, have heard dozens of indignant speeches in this room over the past few years about the fact that the agricultural Ukraine, which can feed half a billion people with its lands, is constantly increasing the import of food. Millions of currencies come from foreign producers of potatoes, various vegetables. More and more areas are sown in expensive varieties and hybrids of imported maize, soybeans, sunflowers, wheat, and so forth. When our world-renowned scientists, academics with the name of the world, once again the name Leonid Novakovsky, Anton Tretjak, wrote the current Code of Action, they insisted far and wide on the powerful protection status of especially valuable lands. These lands, including for testing, for hybridization, for seeding. So they're districted, they're kind of hybrid, they're not risk import. It's actually food, which means national security. Friends, don't be foolish, we'll protect these lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u233	1446. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:45.]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 1447, Krulko. Kirilenko. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u234	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Fellow dignitaries, now John Kirilenko, spoke of how the authors of the Novakovsky and Third World Codex were protecting especially valuable lands. And I'll give you a specific example. Imagine the "Podilian Towers" is a national nature reserve and so on. That's about 268,000 hectares of land, but the cadastre is only 11,000 as a natural reserve. And all the other valuable lands, these black earths, storms of the earth and so forth, whole layers of land, are counted as precious land. So this is the law that we're proposing to the left and right to sell the Podilski Towers, what is not included in the cadastre. This is an example of the immediacy offered in this law today, and many other novelties. Fellows, let's get some work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u235	1447 committees are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:20]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yvchenko, 1452 Sobole 1448.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u236	I'll take them all off if you give me three minutes. And I'm just insisting on one thing, and then I'm filming them all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u237	Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, we've just come to the key article -- these are especially valuable lands. I draw your attention to the fact that virtually no transfer of land to the united communities will occur. In spite of the President's 2 million decree, everyone understands perfectly that these two million are gone. All the land or long - term leases, at a price of 49 and other years, or embalmed in the last two months by your authority at the expense of so - called gardening, where thousands of hectares of land are passed directly to whom it is not clear. And I think it will be nothing to pass on to the united communities. That is why dozens and hundreds of letters come from the heads of united communities that they cannot account for anything. And now on especially valuable lands. Notice the article that was thrown out of the Earth Code by the Committee in general, which has existed for 20 years -- "Specially Valuable Lands." The first is, for example, the lands of the southern coast of Crimea. Why? In order to privatize the land of Crimea under Putin. The Lands of Masandra have been removed from this project at all. Why? Because Masandra is torn apart" by Putin's comrades and is already privatized. You're legitimizing it. That's why it's done. Other particularly valuable lands are protected lands that you clean up from the next Earth Codex. Incomprehensible and orderly transfer and re-profiling of these lands. If earlier, only after the decision of the district councils, Sevastopol and Kiev City, for a request to the Supreme Council. Only the Supreme Council approved the decision to change their purpose and to remove especially valuable lands, now local officials will do so. That's why they excluded the entire article of "Specially Valuable Lands" from the Earth Codex. It's easy to see. Look at the left-hand side, these articles exist in the Earth Code, and look at the committee's revisions -- delete this article altogether. You will still not see it, but you will see passages in various articles where there is no complete approach to particularly valuable lands. That's why it's very simple. In order to leave both the south coast of Crimea and the land of Masandra, and especially the valuable Blacklands, and the Torfians, and the national parks, including the Hortica National Park, and the natural reserves, we need to leave the article in the editorial where it existed 20 years ago, when none of these land was privatized. Please place this amendment on the left-hand side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u239	What vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u240	1448.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u241	1448. I got it. 1448 Soboljeva. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:22]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 1452, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u242	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, isn't it interesting to discuss this with regard to article 150? Will we be preserved with especially valuable lands? Colleagues, is it not interesting to discuss whether a farmer or a family farmer is actually buying Ukrainian land today? Colleagues, isn't it interesting to think of the fate of 4 million single farms that are now outside the agricultural market that make agricultural products that do not have access to loans that do not have access to cheap finances? Is it not interesting, colleagues, to think about what will happen to the earth over the years, and how does law enforcement take place directly for speculators and not for farmers? Colleagues, please think. Let's get this over with. This land reform must benefit people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u243	I'm betting on a vote of 1452, Yvchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:58]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 1453, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, if you go deep into decentralization, you will see clearly that communities need to be given authority and resources to carry out responsibilities. And we have everything going on in such a way that we transfer authority, not transfer resources, colleagues. And we see this when we give them additional tasks to provide our hospitals and outpatients. So here, colleagues, community resources are needed, and first of all, they need to review those time contracts that you're trying to get out of, that are signed by the State Department or the government officials for bribes for tens or three decades. As a minimum, people need these land rent rates to be equal to other producers working in their territory. Give them a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u245	I would like to vote on the amendment of 1453 of the People's Deputies Ivchenka and Mejdić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:24:27]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1457. National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u246	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, what is the elimination of article 150, which has already been discussed. In fact, it is an indicator of the total absence of State strategy and state policy in part of the protection and special status of particularly valuable lands. So this article regulates the status of these lands. This means that the State is more receptive to those lands, specializing in regulating all such lands, since they are essential to the functioning of the agricultural complex of the Ukrainian State. Instead of public policy, we are offered complete anarchy and chaos, a complete balance of all kinds of land from the point of view of regulation, which is, in principle, unacceptable in any country of the world, except, unfortunately, modern Ukraine. And then I ask you to support my amendment, it's similar to that of my colleagues, and it doesn't support the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u247	I bet on the vote amendment of 1457 People's Deputies Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:26:04]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1460, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Don't insist. Oh, Pauline, yes, I'm sorry. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u248	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, an extremely important amendment, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u249	I would like to vote on the amendment of 14,460 of the Royal and Pavlovska People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:26:46]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 1464, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that there is an understanding of "the price of the land" and "the value of the land." So the price of land today is the very expensive price in Cherkishka, 35,000 per acre, the price has been determined at the state level. So, what I'm saying is that on this earth, most of the famines in 1932-1933 -- most of them on the coast of Ukraine -- are where the center of the most expensive land is, that's what we're talking about. This is the natural source of existence, the first. And the second. Please tell us how this article can be ruled out in general when it comes to matters of special value. Who has made the earth’s cadastre for today? In the past fifteen and a half million years, we have been swamped and desalinized by black lands that are equal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u251	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 1464, the National Deputies of Germany and Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:23]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1465. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u252	So I keep going, so the salty and wet soils in 15 years are equivalent to the Herson and Mikolai region of the saltlands, so that we can understand where we're losing land. Please tell me, do we have it marked somehow? There's nothing in the cadastral. When we talk about especially valuables, you see that the legislator now intends to voluntarily refuse particularly valuable lands, remove these lands, and completely eliminate understanding of particularly valuable lands. So I understand that people don't know what calibration is, selection is, or whatever else is going on in the agrarian sector, unfortunately, and that's our problem. I'm asking you to support our offer to refuse liquidation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u253	I bet on the vote of amendment 1465 of the German People’s Deputy, Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[2:29:55]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1466. Voloshin. 1467 — too. 1477. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please. Vadim Evgenovich. You won't? I got it. Okay. 1478 — not either? 1481, Vlasenko. You will? No, it's not. 1488, Volosin. Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u254	Mr. Ruslan, to be honest, I was waiting for my microphone to come on. All right. No, I don't blame any of the colleagues here for usurping power, although that's exactly what I was going to say. Because we can see that the President has, as an urgent matter, not a bill to lower tariffs or not to adopt the decisions that are necessary today to secure Ukraine from the great tribulation, but to eliminate, cash, the District Administrative Court. And in that sense, of course, when we have the Constitutional Court locked down, and it's completely artificial, and now another important court is being eliminated, of course, which is what we can talk about. What normal family relations in this country can be discussed if the judicial authority, as the only one able to resolve disputes between owners and all those involved in land relations, is actually being destroyed today. That is, she was, in a mild sense, imperfect, and now she is completely ruined, and in these circumstances we believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u255	I don't think it's exactly the brightest example of the harbor of justice you've named. Let's do 1468. I would like to vote on the amendment of 1468 of the People's Deputies of Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:25]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Please make your next amendment, Oleg Anatolyovich. Please 1489, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u256	Also, really, (I'll just continue) when investors see that completely unengaged investors, who can totally treat Ukraine's agricultural prospects in a positive way, but they understand that only through courts in any country can property be guaranteed. When a country's decision imposes sanctions on anyone, and assets are blocked and citizens are, in fact, deprived of their right to a fair trial, which is a fundamental feature of European values and a fundamental feature of the rule of law. Because every citizen, that's the difference between the aliens who are allowed to apply sanctions and the citizens who own their assets, can only happen to them after the court's judgment has come into effect. There is a guarantee from the State that a citizen of this country will not suffer in any other way than through a court in which he can at least have a chance to prove his innocence. So in these languages, I think the launch of the earth's market is really a crime and will only play.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u257	I bet on the vote of Amendment 1489. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:59]] For-51 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1490. National Deputy Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u258	I've got some changes in my schedule. I'm going to take this moment, and then I'm going to put it to the vote in a row. So again again, the subject of sanctions, of course, that if the calculation, you know, by the smallest common denominator, brothers, when really people who don't understand anything, they like it when instead of organizing the normal work of law enforcement agencies and the judicial system, they take these measures. But if tomorrow, instead of catching a home thief or a carjacker or a law enforcement killer, they're going to translate it all into an RFMO, and they're going to just get sanctions for all of them. By the way, I want to explain to you who doesn't know, the assets can't be taken away, nationalized for the benefit of the state, they can only be frozen. Well, tomorrow you're going to have to impose a "wrong in the law" sanction in which there's no notion of ownership at all, there never was, instead of fighting them. This means that the state is full of legal disorder, such as.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u259	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 1490, People's Deputy Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[14:35:36]] For-52 The decision is not taken. So, I'm betting on the rest, right? Amendment to 1491 People's Deputies of Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:59]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 1491 National Deputy Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:20]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 1492 National Deputy Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:40]] For-50 Lies down, Anatolyovich, maybe. Well, there's no potential in the room to support it. Let's move on, shall we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Shall we? Okay. 1494 People's Deputies of Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:08]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 1495 National Deputy Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:27]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 1496 National Deputy Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:47]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 1497 National Deputy Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:06]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 1498 National Deputy Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:27]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment by Vasil Ivanovich Germany. Vasil Ivanovich, 1499.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u260	Dear colleagues! Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Here's the question of an arbitrator who's going to make a decision when there's a dispute. You see, there are at least 7 entities that are being demolished immediately, plus e - sales organizers. What is this about? The fact that we are essentially downsized by judicial authority. This is the first time. It's different. On what basis are they preceded by quasi - suds? There are arbitral courts. Dear colleagues, if we go this way, this mess will leave people defenseless and there will be no access to justice. That's what this is about. So we pay attention to these circumstances. This is important to balance the rights of citizens for the protection of their interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u261	I bet the vote on amendment 1499 of the German People's Deputy, Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:56]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1500, Jubilee. Vasil Ivanovich, yours. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u262	Thank you for your trust, dear colleagues. What am I trying to say? When you read this content, you want to look at the Daneland that we have today. We need to add to the National Security Council, and it will determine who is the right, who is the enemy, and who is the right to give away the land from the people in need. That's what this is about. Please note the electronics. Who Unrealizes Electronic Commerce? It's the organizer himself. Where are the judges? Can you please tell me where the 55th Constitution is? You and I don't give people the right to legal protection. We abuse them because people are nothing to us. That's what this is about. And I'd like to pay attention to that. Enough with the bullying. We're going with you to the knife of the crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u263	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Jubilee 1500 amendment, voting. Unfortunately, the committee is proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[14:41:31]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1501, Shufrich, Kiwa. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u264	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you think that our colleagues of the National MPs of Ukraine on the third call, they were inexperienced and did not settle this issue? It was very difficult indeed to pass this vote, with blood in fact the right of people to private property and the right to sell the land. But then the Ukrainian national deputies understood that to open up the earth’s market, it was necessary to create the value of the earth in order for people to be truly profitable and interesting to sell the land. What's going on today? Sadly, today people will actually be stolen for nothing. It's not selling, it's stealing land, robbing people. So we insist that we leave a valid edition of the Earth Code in this part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u265	I'm betting on the 1501 vote of the People's Deputies of Shufrich, Kivu. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:03]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 1502. National Deputy Volosin, please. Slavicka, please, Slavicka, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u266	Yes, dear colleagues, this right proposes to amend article 158 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which adds after the term "local self-government" to the term "and to the central authorities of executive power that implement state policy in the field of land relations." A similar change is proposed by amendment 1505, so I ask you to put these two amendments to the vote. And I want to take this opportunity to say that, during today's discussion, we did not hear from a representative of the profiling committee the rebuttal of all those arguments that were echoed on account of the fact that this bill was adopted in a timely manner. Should we hold an all-U.S. referendum and await the decisions of the Constitutional Court? Please put these two amendments to the vote, 1502 and 1505.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u267	I bet on the vote to amend 1502 national deputies Volosin and Slavicki. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:32]] For-48 The decision is not taken. And 1505, right? I'm betting on a vote of 1505, the national deputies of Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:59]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next 1506. Who will be the Volosin or the Slavic? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you see. Well, it's not me, it's you they've overstepped because of you. Overruled, I'm sorry. There's an amendment. 1504, Coltunovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u268	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In support of the argument of our amendments and our thesis, we have calculated integrated composite indicators of macroeconomic forecasting for the medium term perspective. And as a result of this consideration, I've already told you that we have a decline in key macroeconomic parameters and an outflow, most importantly, of foreign direct investment. The main concept of land reform was to attract foreign direct investment. Instead, we see, even in the last year, that for the first time in many years, you've had a direct foreign investment outflow of $868 million, that's when we were there every year, in better years, at $5 billion per year. So from this point of view, there is a very big question about investment attractiveness. That's the first one. And the second. What my colleagues have already said is that, in the context of the usurpation of power by the President of Ukraine, the imposition of illegal, non-constitutional sanctions, which will be brought before the Supreme Court on individuals with regard to independent information channels, it discourages an investor from the national economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u269	I bet on the vote of 1504 the amendment of the National Deputies of Koltunović and Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:45.]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1507, Germany, Shufrich. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, these are the articles that relate to the creation of boundaries and the existence of disputes that need to be resolved. So I want to tell you that if we want to keep the blood from spilling, believe me, for once and for all, there was a massacre, especially among the people who are processing this land. Go to the village and see. What are we doing? The local territorial communities are the local authorities of the territorial communities, what will they decide? What will they decide when physical opposition occurs? And it is today. What, though, is raiding? Don't you know that harvesting is done at night? You don't know and you refer to that as a limit. So what are we writing? There must be a centralized body that solves this issue, a centralized body, if you want order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u271	1507. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:21]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 1508, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, it is here that you and I, in this bill, are returning to the country's services. Can you imagine what it would be like to be bought over pieces of Ukrainian territory? Will it be a sovereign state? Will it be territorial sovereignty, or will it be constant servite disputes? And including the state will go out and ask someone, some foreign coowner. I'm not saying he'll go through with people anymore. Dear colleagues, I wanted to ask you to remove this bill from the message of the day, representing the point of view. It's a disaster. Take it off, it's a matter of national interest. What else is unclear? Read what you're writing. And where will we go after July 1st? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u273	1508. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:49:49]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 1509, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u274	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I still remember when the sign was very close to us, the national deputies of Ukraine. But it was October 25, 2001, when the board was shattered in our struggle for the right of people to rule their land, and then we voted in name ballots. Since it was impossible to vote in this room, everything was shattered. But we have upheld the right of our citizens to own and sell land. But then we realized that when the value of the land is low, it's irresponsible to force people to sell it. What you're doing right now is a crime against your own people, a crime against peasants, a crime against farmers that will not be with that kind of politics. Hands off the peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u275	1509 is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:20]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 1510. Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, this is quite a simple readjustment. In the title of article 159 of the Earth Code, after the term “local self-government” is added to the term “and the central authority of executive power that implements public policy in the field of land relations”. However, the committee on the table does not have any grounds for rejecting or taking account of any of the other rights. At the same time, I would like to stress the sequence of our position that we should first hold an all-U.S. referendum on how Ukrainian citizens want to manage agricultural land. And today we have all the preconditions to implement the President's first pre-election promise, the people of the country through referendums, because it is widely said that two years after his presidency, he still signed the corresponding bill. That's why we fully support the idea of our colleagues that this bill should now not be considered, but initiate this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u277	1510. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:55]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Pavlovenko, 1511.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u278	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, it's another amendment aimed at protecting people, protecting Ukrainian citizens, protecting Ukraine. Because we already have the results of previous so-called reforms: pension, tariff, medical, educational, decentralization, deinstitutionalization, which have already resulted in extremely negative demographic consequences. 20th year's summary: 38 dead Ukrainians born are among the worst demographic indicators in the history of Ukraine. This anniversary for Ukrainian independence, the 21st, could be the worst, from a demographic point of view, year for Ukraine. And unfortunately, this land reform is so-called, and this law will kill Ukrainians even more, making it even more impossible to live on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u279	I'm betting on the 1511 vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:26]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 1512. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u280	Regrettably, the honourable colleagues, the Honourable Head, despite the fact that the vast majority of Ukrainians are opposed to the laws that open the market for the land in these unforgivable socio-economic conditions. When there's a war going on in Ukraine, there's military action, every day people die from war, not just your cynical anti-human socio-economic policies, you continue to impose it. I'll take it from here. Let's reject this law. Let us now put to the vote, stop this war of amendments, put to a vote, reject, hold a referendum, go to the laws that people today are awaiting, that will help them survive in the difficult conditions that will save their lives and health today, and we will not continue to impose a law that will further kill Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u281	I'm betting on the 1512 vote, Pawel. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:57]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Voloshin. Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, 1513, 16 and 20 are similar in content. And it's proposed that after the word "local self-government" is added to the term "the central executive authority that implements public policy in the field of land relations." So I ask you to put all these amendments to the vote. And taking this opportunity, I want to go once again to colleagues who may not have had time to get to know the text of the bill for a second reading that is full of its scope and complexity. Nevertheless, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council stressed its contradictions with the Constitution of Ukraine. So, for example, I have a question about why we're adopting laws that will eventually be challenged in the Constitutional Court and recognized as in conflict with the Basic Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u283	I'm betting on a vote of 1513. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:21]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Crybaby, do you insist? Don't insist. Antonina Kerimovna, I understand that you said three different words. We can keep going, can't we? Germano Vasil Ivanovich, 1517
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, these laws provide for the possibility of resolving disputes: who is the subject, who is the arbitrator. I'd like to point out that we're completely minimizing the judicial system as an independent branch. Why? Because the courts are not present at all. When it comes to boundaries outside the population, it is up to the superiors to decide. If within a village or a village or a city, it will be decided by the local authority. What's next? What colleagues offer is a superior body. That's the first one. And the second. Why there is no attempt to resolve this issue in court. Moreover, these decisions have to do with the implementation of these decisions. How they will make their own decisions. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u285	I'll put it to a vote of 1517. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[2:59:05]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 1518.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u286	I'm going to continue to say, but who's going to make these decisions? If a decision is made by a local authority, not by a territorial or a unified territorial community and does so, he becomes a judge in his case. So where are we going? Then how will this dispute end? And it's not going to end, it's going to end up in the courts sooner or later. Dear colleagues, when we talk about how to resolve these relations when there is a dispute, look to the Constitution, which clearly states, starting with Article 55 and the chapter "Justice," that all legal relations can be challenged in court or their legality can be tested by an independent objective and universal court, so look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m0.u287	I'm betting on the 1518 vote, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[15:00:35]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. The next session will begin at 4 p.m. Thank you, colleagues.
