ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Long time no see, yeah. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Are you ready to register? Remind me how you don't have to register? I don't have my own, so I won't. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:02:38]] There are 231 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are scheduled for consideration at an extraordinary meeting is given to you. I remind you that, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We turn to the first issue of the agenda: You are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Shipping on the qualifications of crew members (registration number 3944). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:03:59]] For 221 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, good afternoon, Your Honor! Bill 3944 introduces international standards for automatic certification of sailors. In Ukraine today, there is a huge problem: we have a problem with the examination, we have a problem with the training of sailors, and we have a problem with the issuance of qualifications. Seamen have been fighting these issues for a long time, and the amount of corruption from seamen is about $100 million a year. So every month, sailors' families pay about $10 million for this corrupt scheme. The basic innovations of Bill 3944 say that if you, a sailor, have a proof of your qualifications, if you have experience with a seaman, your qualifications continue automatically, they linger, and there is no need to re-examine and study in order to obtain documents of the same rank of work that you were doing. Please support this bill, it will deprive hundreds of thousands of sailors of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u3	Thank you, Ivan Anatolyovich. The head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, National Deputy Kisiel Yuri Grigorovich, is invited to attend. Please, Yuri Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u4	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, at its meeting on 16 June, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Navigation on the Qualification of Crew Members (Registration No. 3944) of 29.07.2020, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputies Shinkarenko and other Ukrainian national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Anti-Corruption Policy reported that the bill met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation, while drawing attention to the existence in the bill of individual rules allowing for arbitrary interpretation. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union reported that the bill for its purpose did not conflict with Ukraine's international legal obligations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of comments to the bill, including noting that the individual provisions of the bill do not comply with the principle of legal certainty, which may lead to their arbitrary interpretation in the application and occurrence of the risks of corruption. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine believes that the bill needs to be finalized. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine made an expert conclusion to the bill, which stated that the bill needed further work. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Shipping on the requirements for the qualification of crew members (registration number 3944) from 29.07.2020 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u5	Thank you, Yuri Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes, then I'd like you to sign in: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u6	Sparkle.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u7	Spark, please, Mikola Leonidovich. People's MP, Scork Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u8	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! You know, there's such a constant expression that our leaders of the state love that Ukraine is kind of a sea state. In fact, we've lost almost all the attributes of the marine state for quite some time. Our fleet was destroyed back in the '90s, and the man who destroyed it is now helping destroy the Minsk peace process. We are actually destroying our port sector and thanks to the policies of the previous minister of Crickley, our ports are privatized, not even for a penny, but for free, and many other questions about our maritime sector, which is a budgetary sector. This particular subject would probably be for the Supreme Council. But our sailors today are among the best in the world. Indeed, the demand for them is very and very high in the world. And these people are bringing billions of dollars to Ukraine. So this bill really solves the serious issue of reducing the corruption risks of our sailors. Our faction will not simply support this bill, our colleague in the Antonin Kerimovna Slavicka faction is co-author of this bill. We urge the hall to vote in the first reading. If there are questions, work out this law between first and second reading, some points that need to be, and adopt it as a whole. Because it's very and very important to our sailors, to my native Odessa region, where there are so many people who give their lives, their powers, their souls to the sea, and they are symbols that Ukraine is still a sea state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u9	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Anatoly Urbanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u11	Anatoly Urbanski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to pay attention to the importance of this bill. I have struggled for years to bring Ukrainian legislation to the standards of the VAT Convention and have repeatedly addressed this issue with regard to the previous management of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Sadly, though, the problem of sailors showed. display ignored. And it's not just about corruption when even professionals couldn't get the necessary certificates without bribes, it's about risks. After all, there are known cases of the purchase of diplomas by barbers who go out to sea because of the lack of even a little knowledge of safety. They die alone. The people who are on that steamboat. We are also talking about the prestige of Ukrainian sailors. Today, they enjoy respect, demand in the world market, and we must safeguard their reputation for having a job, feeding their families, and providing income to the budget. It's a national issue. Today, we can finally show the sailors who have almost lost any hope of hearing them and taking steps to meet them. I would like to thank Mr. Kubrakov very much for his real willingness to eliminate corruption in this important area. And I urge you to vote in favour of this bill as a basis and to complete this bill for the second reading together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u13	Beautiful. The word is given to the national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich. I see it's Sümar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u14	I share this bubbling applause about my colleague and what he said. Because, you know, listen now, it's one of the most cynical and simple corruption schemes in this country that have not only existed in the last two years, but unfortunately for the last seven years. What's going on? Can you imagine $10 million in cash a month? This money is collected from sailors and taken to Kiev by an official of category "A." We were told about this at a committee meeting held in Odessa. Do you know why they're taken to seamen? For having to confirm their diplomas every five years. You and I are lawyers, doctors, journalists. Which one of you has to confirm your diplomas yet? Nobody. Sailors who go to sea come here and do so every five years. And, you know, international agreements all say you don't have to do that. But the Ukrainian officials who collect these coins are just $10 million in cash in a month, of course they're leaving that standard. I have a question for the committee. Why did this bill lie with you for a year, and until the anti-corruption committee did, no one moved it? But at the same time, I have thanks now for the leadership of the Supreme Council: thank you for bringing it out quickly. Because it's enough to look into the eyes of those sailors whose family can't see after six months, and then he comes to find an official who has to give $5,000 or $10,000 to go back to sea and feed his family. Therefore, the law must be adopted on both the basis and in general. There's nothing complicated there, it's one paragraph: take this certificate confirmation. But if we only accept it as a basis, let us accept it as a whole in the summer and apologize for this corrupt scheme in our sailors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to Black Dmitri Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u16	Please give the word to Alexander Kunick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u17	Alexander Kunicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u18	My colleagues, it is very sad that we are currently considering this bill, which was to be considered a year ago. Next to me is the author of this bill, who tried for a year to look at it on a profile committee. This is a disgrace to a transport committee that could not even consider this bill in a subcommittee for a year. And only some of my colleagues who supported this bill pressed him to have the profile committee consider it. We must vote on it today. Because sailors are the only people who are probably the only people currently bringing money into the country. And these are the only people who are currently suffering from the saviour that is now being created in our country. So I support you, I very much ask you to support this. And even those colleagues who from my faction have obstructed this bill on the committee have to support it. Because it's a disgrace not to solve the year of the matter that your fellow Servant of the People initiated, it's a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two more speakers. Is there any other motive? I see, Sergey Vladislavovich. From your faction of Kabachenko. Please, Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, "The Fatherland" faction. After that, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u20	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, first of all, I want to thank the committee of profile, namely the Transport Committee, the infrastructure for having supported this bill by most of their votes, and so today we have the opportunity to look at it in the first reading. If it were not for these votes, it would mean that the automatic handling of this issue would have been carried over for a year, which means that it would have been the sailors who would have suffered corruption for another year, that they would have continued to bribe officials and government authorities for a year. Briefly on the seamen in the numeral language. 150,000 citizens of Ukraine are 3 billion dollars each year, which is receiving the Ukrainian budget, and these are tens of millions of dollars a month of bribes that sailors leave in the pockets of officials. So today we are obliged to support this bill unanimously so that sailors can gain a new quality of life. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u21	Thank you. Julia Klimenko, Voice. Someone else will be speaking, or after that, we'll move on to. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the figures. First, in Ukraine, 150,000 sailors bring $1-2 billion each year to Ukraine. They don't take them to another country, they bring them to us here. They spend in Ukraine, they feed their families, they demand nothing from the state. Instead, the state requires almost 200 million bribes a year. In fact, it has turned Ukrainian sailors into slaves who do not have international rights, nor do they have rights in Ukraine. So, colleagues, we're voting in favour, and I want to pay attention, if we don't vote in two readings by 15 July, this law will come into force until 1 January 23rd year, so let's do it by 15 July of this session. Thank you. [[16:20:01]] Who else wants to speak? Wack Hennaday Anatoliyovich. After this. Did they all come out wanting to? Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on Watsaku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u23	Gennady Watzak, 16th constituency, Deputy Group "Trust". Each of us in the pre-election program promised the citizens of Ukraine improvements in life, simplification of state procedures, and relief of the lives of Ukrainians. What's today? Ukrainians are forced to choose these rights that we promised them during the elections. Sailors strike, and we look at the problem of sailors. The FOPs are on strike, we're looking at FOP's problems. It is good that Parliament responds to these problems. But let us work so that we do not eliminate these problems but warn them. Of course, the bill is vital and timely. The Trust MP Group supports the bill and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Merchandise Navigation concerning the qualifications of crew members (registration number 3944). Ready to vote? 3944. Please support and vote. [[16:21:57]] For 330. Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it? Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on a proposal for acceptance as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why not? [[B in m in s a l in]] With technical law. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of the draft Act amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Shipping concerning the qualifications of crew members (registration number 3944). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:23:03]] For 333 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Sharaskin Andrey Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u25	Give, God, health, respectable national MPs, the Honourable Head and our fellow citizens! We will now consider draft Law 5557, which has been submitted by the President of Ukraine and has been defined as urgent. And that's good, because at last we're in the seventh year, after the seventh year of the war, we're going to look at the issue of territorial defense and we're going to look at it. I would like to say that the National Security Act already defines even some of the situations, and one of the components, critical elements of our national security and defenses, defines citizens who voluntarily take on such a mission and function, citizens who can unite together. So here's what I'd like to tell you. The law is very necessary. I am very sorry that we have not been able to achieve unity in the Committee on Safety and Defence, because we have offered two copyright teams to work on a substantive basis so that the President can present a detailed version. But I very much hope that we will be able to do this in the committee of profile and the rights to second reading to make it significantly better, because now Bill 5557, it, and above all, contains no balance between the powers and responsibilities of local administrations, local self-government, on which very many responsibilities are placed. Instead, to understand, there is neither external nor internal nor public control over the use of funds and is not available. Nor does this bill foresee or resolve most of the procedures by handing over these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers. Most of all, it doesn't predict mass. And there are big threats that he can work. So I urge that we, between the first and the second readings, remove all inconsistencies and still get an effective Law on Territorial Defence and other elements that have been incorporated into the Presidential Bill of Law 5557. I very much hope that we will be able to work effectively. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the Fundamentals of National Opposition (registration number 5557). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:26:56]] For 227 Decision taken. Secretary of Defense Taran Andriy Vasilovich is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u27	Honourable Dmitre Aleksandrovitch, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, draft Law Registration Number 5557, submitted for consideration by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as an urgent matter for the implementation of the provisions of the National Security Act, the provisions of the Military Security Strategy, approved by the Presidential Decree of 25 March 21 to determine the principles of national opposition, its preparation and conduct, the tasks of security forces and defence forces, the respective powers of state authorities and local self-government. The adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to develop a system of territorial defence and resistance that, along with preparing the population for the protection of the State, will provide a solid basis for resisting enemy aggression. The identification of the basic principles of territorial defence and resistance at the legislative level will contribute to the consolidation of the population's efforts, as well as to the strengthening of the ability of the security and defence forces to restore Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. The bill is scheduled to be implemented on January 1, 2022. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u28	Thank you. A member of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Venislavski Feder Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u29	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, citizens of Ukraine! The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council considered at its meeting on 9 June this year a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine as urgent, with registration number 5557 on the basis of national opposition. This bill envisions the creation of a very powerful system of territorial defence, a movement of resistance that is designed to provide in its integrated systemic form a full system of national resistance that will be a powerful deterrent to any potential aggressor who has unfriendly intentions for our country of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee at its meeting, having considered this bill, has concluded that it is more systematic and comprehensively regulating issues related to the establishment of a system of national resistance than those legislative initiatives that have also come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that before this bill there are some comments by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but these comments may be deleted between the first and the second readings. Therefore, the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis for consideration and that it be finalized for second reading. I also want to add personally that today, in large numbers, we can have a unique chance to create an effective system of territorial defence. This day is going to be historic, because in 7 years of war, we didn't create a proper legal base. The People's Servant Party will vote in favour of this bill and I urge everyone to vote in favour. I think only the enemies of Ukraine can vote against this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u30	Thank you, Fedor Vladimirovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy of Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u31	Please pass the word to Costenko Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u32	Roman Costenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the creation of effective territorial defenses today in wartime conditions is mandatory under Russian aggression. And the Voice faction will support these legislative initiatives if they are further developed. It's very revealing that in almost every place we come to work with citizens we've been asked questions about territorial defense. And this particular question is of interest to people who are veterans of the Russian-Ukrainian war. And this is also important, given the creation of a resistance movement that will operate in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory. The territory of Ukraine, which is captured by an opponent in armed aggression against our nation. There are citizens who are willing to face the enemy, and there are those who are willing to fight him even after our territories have been captured. Therefore, it is important to legitimize such activity. I call on my colleagues to support this bill and to work on it for a second reading. Let's take another step to increase our defenses. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u34	The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u35	I give you my word, Mr. Chairman, the Zabrodsky Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u36	Mikhail Zabrodsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, distinguished compatriots, the bill of discharge, they say. I wanted to ask. When was it needed? He needed it yesterday. There is a formal territorial defense. There is a resistance movement, even informally. Moreover, he has successfully completed his assignment, including in temporarily occupied areas. With you, our responsibility as parliamentarians is to provide an appropriate legislative base for our Armed Forces to ensure that these two important components of the State’s security systems continue to work effectively. It's about the bill itself. Undoubtedly, the step forward is that it contains a powerful understanding apparatus. This is exactly what was usually not enough for a normal process of planning, providing and forming appropriate structures. The clearly defined task of the TRO is to undemonstrate this ingredient with a clear indication that it only participates in all of the comprehensive measures of defense of the state. The responsibilities of all components, all state institutions, and, above all, the Ministry of Defence are clearly distributed, where the rest can be an example for further work on the committee’s distribution model, such as between the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. And finally, there's a clear concept and a framework for preparing the appropriate individual composition or citizens for the protection of their country. You can't say that the law is perfect. Of course, it has its faults and is infallible. What is worth, for example, is the number of battalions in the TRO brigade. Because a brigade of four battalions, such as Volina and Zitomirsk, can be even more difficult to imagine a brigade of seven battalions in Dnipropetrovska or Kyivska. Such questions remain in the law. The "ES" faction will undoubtedly support the law in the first reading, which the whole room calls for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u38	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u39	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies! In fact, Bill 5557 is extremely necessary but too late. We really expected that a bill that was registered back in December last year by a colleague from the Voice of Mr. Sharaskin faction that it would be considered in both the committee and the sessional room. But of course, this bill, which the head of state has proposed, contains many important things, but needs to be redesigned for the second reading. A state that fights, and every one of its citizens has to know their place, their place in any situation, and should not wait for the announcement of a state of emergency. The bill stipulates that territorial defense is formed from the top down, and local authorities and self - government are involved in this process. It is very important that we take into account in the second reading those aspects of Mr. Sharaskin's bill, which carry the experience of the European States regarding territorial defence. Next thing. We must be careful not to take responsibility for local authorities and self - government so that they can effectively manage the forces and resources. There is a question of how to preserve the weapons of those resistance players – this is also an important issue to be developed for the second reading. The funding, the honorary colleagues, this is going to be the next bill, and I want to say it already. It's very important that where the funding for this process comes from, whether it's based on the redistribution of funds to the Ministry of Defence, or whether it's an additional cost. If additional, tell us where to take them. The "Paternity" team will vote in favour of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u40	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Polackov Anton Eduardoovich, MP's Party for the Future, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u42	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u43	Dear Ukrainians, 7 years ago, the Ukrainian-Russian war began, essentially the resistance of the Ukrainians to Russian aggression, which Mr. Venislavski called a non-communal form there, I don't know, the state, I mean Russia. Fourteen thousand better sons and daughters died, 30,000 injured, and one and a half million Ukrainians were forced to move away from their homes. And 44,000 square miles are occupied by that unfriendly country there, as Mr. Venislav's representative of the President once again said in the same Constitutional Court. And I'm asking myself, if we could do something different and there would be no casualties, there would be no occupation in our territory if we had a normal territorial defense, not one that was at Yanukovich's in 2013. Yes, according to Yanukovich’s decree to this day, there is also the terror that we have. How could our boys who are fighting there to this day in the occupied territory be concerned that then, when they return here to Ukraine, they will not be judged in these fair courts for the actions they have done as non-military, I don't know, and perhaps no one in this world can answer that question? But I know what needs to be done so that it doesn't happen again to take over Ukrainian land and not allow an invader in the rest of Ukrainian territory to accept this bill in the first reading. We're voting for it, and our MP group is calling on everyone to support it, despite really, I agree with the underdevelopments. They need to be taken down to the second reading once and for all, and to say, the Ukrainian people will always be ready to oppose any entry into our land, and whoever speaks to the Moscows, forgive me, who trample this land, or the friendly people there, not to choose, as a minimum, to this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I'll give you the word of Scorch Mikoli Leonidovich. Anyone else? After that, and after that, let's go to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u45	The Opposition Platform for Life faction, People's MP Skorik. Our faction suggests that our colleagues abstain from voting for the bill. You know, colleagues, there's this teaching by the academic of Vernadian, the great Ukrainian academic, the teaching of the noospher, which says that thought and the word are material. If we keep repeating that war, war, war, we can actually call war, and if we talk about peace, if we really go back to implementing the Minsk treaties, and if we really do solve tariff issues, if we really do solve social protection issues, it's really going to be a real protection for the Ukrainian state, not pseudo-patriotistic, pseudo-patriotic laws that you're trying to replace the password that you went to the elections with. You went to the elections, I'm addressing most of the peaceful slogans that you're doing, you're trying to be like the forces that went into the past of the summons, shake your hands and stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u46	I wish we could all live in the same reality. Please welcome the Bakunec People’s Deputy to the floor and then proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll call a colleague to the hall. Please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u47	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national MPs, the Honourable Minister of Defense of Ukraine, thank you for this initiative. Ukraine is a successful democratic state. This very fact clearly does not satisfy Moscow's imperial ambitions, and so the threat of the Russian Federation will never disappear, and these provocations will continue. You have to understand, the aggressor is awake, and every next month can be dangerous not only in the east, but in other areas of our country. And the only way out is to increase Ukraine's defence. This is the creation of the foundations of national resistance so that every city, every village, has an organization of territorial defense. And when there are people who are trained in places who are ready, capable and able to take up arms from this will be the real power of our Ukraine. So I urge you in this room to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, I invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. In line with the committee's proposal, I propose to adopt the bill (registration number 5557) as the basis of the bill, which is the draft of the National Opposition Act. Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, please come in. Once again, I am voting on the bill (registration number 5557) – this is the Law on the Fundamentals of National Opposition. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:43:59]] For 318
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u49	For 318. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5557). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:44:39]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u50	A statement was made by the Kachura People's MP asking him to count his vote "for" as a whole under Bill 3944 because the button didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u51	That's enough. The next bill to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Number Act on the increase in the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition (registration No. 5558). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:45:37]] For 261 Decision taken. Secretary of Defense Taran Andriy Vasilovich is invited to speak. Well, go to your colleagues and make arrangements so that we don't have to discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u52	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft law, registration number 5558, introduced by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as an urgent matter, in view of the need to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian National Security Act, a military security strategy approved by the Presidential Decree of 25 March 21st. The purpose of the bill is to create and ensure the functioning of a separate force – the force of territorial defence of the Armed Forces, as well as the development of the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces in the interests of forming a resistance movement. To this end, it is proposed at the legislative level to increase the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces by 11,000 military personnel, of which 10,000 are transferred to the Territorial Defence Force and 1,000 to the Special Operations Force. Thus, after the adoption of the bill, the number of the Armed Forces will not exceed 261,000, including 215 military personnel. This will make it possible to implement the draft National Resistance Act (registration number 5557) and to increase the level of sovereignty of the State. The implementation of the bill will require additional expenditure from the budget, starting in 2022, and consideration in the formulation of the defence budget for the coming years. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u53	A member of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Venislavski Feder Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u54	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Bill 5558 is an integral part of the bill that we have just adopted in the first reading as a basis. Since the Ukrainian Constitution defines the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces as the law, the President initiated the bill, defining it as urgent to increase the border number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by 11,000. The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee at its meeting on June 9, 2021, reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve it as the basis for the first reading. It could be adopted in general, but without the previous law, which we will adopt in general, this bill is premature. So I ask everyone to support this bill. By 11,000, we increase the military force's border strength: 10,000 for the territorial defence forces and 1,000 for the Special Operations Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u55	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Anyone who doesn't insist may not register. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u56	Please pass the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u57	Again? Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Head, thank you, Mr. Secretary of Defense of Ukraine, thank you, distinguished national deputies, for your previous vote. We have already changed the course of our history. By your vote, you've proven to the enemy that we're not afraid or afraid of him, but we're willing to give our aggressor not only by the forces of our armed forces of the regular army of Ukraine, but also in the near future by voluntary formations on the ground. We've given people who want to take up arms, go to college, and if they need to defend our population with you -- villages, villages, towns and cities -- it's very important. I believe that by the second reading the bill will be prepared very quickly and the system of national resistance will be launched and will work qualitatively throughout our country. But in order for this to become a reality, we also have to vote on this bill, which increases the number and number of Ukrainian Armed Forces, so that tens of thousands of civilian heroes in all parts of the country can legally take up arms and defend their territories. So I urge all of you and this bill to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u59	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Zabrodsky?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u60	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u61	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, allow me not to agree with the authors of the reference material that we have been given, regarding the fact that the adoption of the law, in particular 5557, is the fastest possible way to strengthen our state in the face of growing Russian aggression. What I don't agree with is that the road is fast. Trust me, the way to form a full-fledged structure of territorial defense, in particular, will be unforgivable, quick and precisely difficult. But in order to provide and now lay the proper groundwork for the deployment of this system, including military and territorial defence forces, not to mention the formation of appropriate structures in the force of special operations, it is now necessary to make an appropriate decision to increase the size of the Armed Forces. The purpose of the bill is quite clear: in order for a law that will be in force on 1 January next year to be implemented, to be able to develop appropriate states, to maintain a certain number of individual compositions in certain positions, namely, to plan fully the deployment of this system, for example, during a special period or with a certain period of time, it is necessary to increase the number of Armed Forces. The "European Solidarity" faction will support this law and encourage everyone to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u63	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Today, literally in the context of these bills, speaking up, our generals, who are Ukrainian national deputies, have clearly stated and noted that the decision to create territorial defence is already very late. Obviously, one who remembers that we have been bleeding Donbas, an annexed Crimea, the one who remembers how the first welfare was created, especially when there were no means of protection (sholms, I mean) and other means of protection, and we were forced to carry out the first mobilizations, the first waves, to send our boys to defend their borders, evidently to help our well - being at that time. Unhappily, the benefits that have been granted to individual members of the fighting group so far cannot be attributed to them. I am also pleased that our colleagues, especially women, have recently taken an oath and joined the Ukrainian Armed Forces reserve. This is our landlady. Welcome. And I'm proud of it. I also want to say that there are other bodies that are willing to carry out various trainings on the basis of their institutions, along with our virtuous women. This is the Society for the Defence of Ukraine, led by Sergey Koshin, who is now in communication with the central authorities, ready to give all of his bases, and that is the Tyres, that is, the Armor Engineering and all the other directions to strengthen our resilience. The Fatherland faction will support this prodigal bill of increasing numbers, and also insists that the government increase wages not only for wealth and for those soldiers, because 10,000 is not enough for a soldier today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u65	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. Bobrova Solomia Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u66	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, I was horrified to hear the fifth column speaker, the representative of the OPCW in this room. Because I remember very well in March 2014, when everything calmed down in Kiev -- in Crimea, "green men" started to enter, and in early March, Odessa was the first raised on the roof of the Odessa district administration of the Russian tricolour. And, you know, I think that if. And he had the right position. And I'm sorry that there weren't those guys armed that could stop the creation of the so-called Odessa People's Republic, Donetsky, Luhansk and so on. This bill has long been overlooked and, of course, I am pleased that we are talking today about national resistance from small to old. Because, including him, he's putting us in line with the NATO member states, which are talking about a comprehensive defense, when it starts at a school with national patriotic education, which, by the way, even in all areas is accepted, everyone is preparing and understands what it is. It's a theater, a potential theatre of action beyond the limits of physical warfare. It's wonderful that we're not just talking about a terrorist, where anyone can go. I encourage the authorities of local self-government, government officials, just citizens who are conscious -- to go and learn, and to understand that at a critical moment, to be ready for this. And another thing that we haven't mentioned here is the resistance movement, which is actually the maximum preparation for the work of citizens under occupation, that's what we haven't been ready for in our own time. And, of course, I want to say one thing. An army oath is not scary, it's scary when it's accepted twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u67	Rudik. Then we go to the vote. Motive Rudik, please turn on the microphone. Sergei Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u68	Dear friends, well-known generalissimo Napoleon, said the sacramental words that are worth remembering to everyone today, including in this room: "The people who don't want to feed their armies will have to feed a stranger." We must now make a decision to increase our nation's Armed Forces by 11,000. The price of the question is 2.5 billion dollars in 22nd year prices. We need to be very hasty so that we can adopt the basic bill that we just passed by the end of July. Then we'll be able to do it from January 1, 22, not January 1, 23, according to the Budget Code. And the third. If there was no norm here, probably a technical one to be corrected, that this law, which I very much hope we will now approve, should now come into force the second day after the publication, which may happen in July, and the basic bill from January 1, we would vote for it and on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u69	No, it's not. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine to increase the number of Armed Forces of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Resistance (registration No. 5558). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:59:21]] For the 320. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the reduction of the half-life of the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5558). Please support and vote. [[17:00]] For 311 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Critical Infrastructure Act (registrations 5219, 5219-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:00:32]] For 264 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienko Aleksandar Pavlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u70	Colleagues, reforming the national security system today has become one of the most topical issues for the Ukrainian State. This involves not only solving the hybrid war against Ukraine, but also the dynamics of the socio-economic and technological processes that are taking place in the world. Global trends towards increasing natural and technological threats, increasing the level of terrorist threats, increasing the number and complexity of cyber attacks, as well as damage to infrastructure in eastern and southern Ukraine as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression have led to an update on the protection of systems, objects and resources that are critical to the functioning of society and to ensuring national security. Over the past few years, Ukraine has taken a number of positive steps towards improving the legal and regulatory framework in the area of cybersecurity. However, considerable effort is still needed in this regard. Today, one such step is to draft the Critical Infrastructure Act (registration number 5219). The project proposes to regulate legal relations related to the operation and protection of critical infrastructure. This bill is to form part of Ukraine’s national security legislation. The adoption of the draft law ensures the establishment of a state-owned system for the protection of critical infrastructure, introduces the only approaches to the management of systems at national and local levels, sets out the principles of interaction, involvement in the protection of critical infrastructures of public authorities and operators of society and citizens. Friends, Bill 5219 provides for an independent audit of national critical infrastructure protection systems, parliamentary and public control in the area of critical infrastructure protection. The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee unanimously supported the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Bill 5219 in the first reading. I believe that the bill should be adopted in the first reading. But all together, work it out for a second reading. I therefore propose to support the decision to adopt Bill 5219 on the critical infrastructure of the authorship of Alexander Fedienka and other national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u71	Deputy Minister of Economy Lev Mikhailo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u72	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is designed to determine the basic principles of public policy in the area of protection of critical infrastructure, regulation of legal and economic relations arising from such activities, and the powers of public authorities in the relevant sphere. The draft Law, among other things, provides for the creation and operation of a state system for the protection of critical infrastructure. Identifying the rights, duties and responsibilities of the owners of critical infrastructure objects Ensure effective coordination and determination of critical infrastructure protection between subjects of the State’s system. Establishment of a critical infrastructure register The bill has a framework. The adoption of the bill will increase the security and resilience of critical infrastructure to threats of any origin, which in turn will protect the lives and health of citizens, ensure the continuity of the functioning of vital elements of the national economy. We note that the adoption of the draft law does not require the creation of a separate central executive body. And it involves putting the corresponding function on the central body defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine among the existing ones, which will not result in a significant increase in government budget expenditure and the number of government officials. On that note, please support Bill 5219-1. With respect to Bill 5219, which is the main one. The Ministry of Economics generally supports the draft legislation, since 5219 and 5219-1 are aimed at ensuring the security and resilience of critical infrastructure. At the same time, we think it needs to be further developed between first and second reading, particularly in the part of placing the functions of the authorized authority in the field of protection of critical infrastructure on the already existing central executive authority, so as not to create a new one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Vereszczuk Irina Andriyovna, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u74	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee at its meeting reviewed draft laws on critical infrastructure (registrations 5219, 5219-1). 5219 was duly submitted by the Ukrainian deputy Fedienc O.P. and other people's deputies, and alternative to it, the critical infrastructure and its protection presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the draft critical infrastructure bill submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienk and other deputies, made a number of comments on its content, pointing out that the bill requires substantial elaboration, harmonization with other legislative acts, the elimination of internal conflicts and the specificization of certain provisions. The Ministry of Defence supports the bill with observations. Instead, the draft Ukrainian Act on Critical Infrastructure and its Protection, which was developed by the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture, proposes to be rejected. Thus, as a result of the discussion, the committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading to adopt the draft Critical Infrastructure Act (Registration No. 5219), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Fedienco O.P. and other national MPs, and reject the alternative draft of the Critical Infrastructure Act submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you. Guys, can I have your back, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill, these bills? Then please sign in: two in, two in, two in, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u76	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u77	Sergey Rachmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u78	Honorable Colleagues — Is This Law Needed? Yes, I do. But the devil is in detail. And in order for this law to become God’s industry, not the Devil’s invention, it still requires much and much work. In particular, this bill proposes to grant unlimited rights to the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the use of search-and-research activities. What appears to be the least surprising in terms of reform of the Ukrainian Security Service and the most dangerous in terms of national security. The other one. My colleague Fedienko, speaking on a profile committee, had, unfortunately, consciously failed to explain what it would be necessary to create another structure instead of putting these responsibilities on any existing body? That's three. And four. I believe that this bill has the right to exist on condition that it adheres to the principle of legal certainty, and that everything that is required to comply with the Constitution and the current legislation will be very clearly prescribed. So in the first reading, the Voice faction will support this bill. But in the second one, it's going to depend on how dangerous things are going to be that they're trying to get through in a sense of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u79	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u80	Thank you. May I have a word with you about this beautiful Bill, Alexander Fedienka? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u81	Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that what the previous speaker said, there is in no way any requirement of the service there. In contrast to the government's draft MPs, there is a more clearly defined system for protecting the mechanism of interaction and the function of the authorized authority, which should be neutral in relation to the security and defence sector of other public authorities. So I ask you once again to pay attention to this bill and support it, because I believe that we, a country that has been in a state of war in recent years, do not have an appropriate profiling bill to protect critical infrastructure and critical information infrastructure. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u83	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u84	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the "Trust" MP Group welcomes those bills that have been considered and adopted now in the session room that relate to strengthening our security, national security and defence. We're talking about how long it's been since we've had to take them. Thus, the bill also refers to the category of those who can contribute to the greater protection of important infrastructure objects and thus to the strengthening of both the economic security of the State and the overall security of the State. The positive aspects of the bill have already been discussed. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has highlighted a few points that need to be settled or want to be settled before the second reading. Thus, the bill does not specify sufficient authority for the Authorized Authority to protect critical infrastructure and the National Commission as its chief regulator. So you have to write more clearly how these organs are supposed to work. Because lack of clear language of authority can lead to abuse. Accordingly, although the draft law provides for the legal responsibility of business subjects for failing to comply with the requirements of this law in the form of fines, assemblies, and so forth, there is no specific basis for such responsibility or order of attraction, which may also be the cause of abuse. And there are still a number of technical aspects that can and must be addressed. So the Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill and urge colleagues to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u85	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u86	Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u87	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, at present in our country, regrettably, there is no single approach to the protection of critical infrastructure objects, which makes national security more difficult, especially in the context of a hybrid war against our Ukraine. The operational response to the likely cyber attacks and other global challenges of today remains extremely complex. The bill proposes to regulate legal relations related to the operation and protection of critical infrastructure. For the sole approach to legal regulation, the authors first formulated a series of basic concepts, goals, and basic principles for the functioning of a national system to protect critical infrastructure objects. In addition, the proposed criteria under which an object can be attributed, such as an enterprise, to the listing of such objects and the creation of a register of such objects. The bill is also an attempt to structure a critical infrastructure protection system, defining functions and defining principles of parliamentary and public control in the relevant sphere. Despite a number of pertinent comments to the individual provisions of the bill, which has been made by the expert environment and the public, we consider it necessary to approve the bill in the first reading in order to take a real step towards the emergence of a sectoral law in the relevant national security sector of Ukraine and to accelerate its further reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u89	All those who wish to speak? The watermelon. Then we go to the vote. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future will vote, support the bill in the first reading. We share the logic that we need in terms of military aggression from the Russian Federation to our state to develop and adopt a similar bill that would. It's designed to function and protect critical infrastructure in Ukraine, so it's good. But we point out that the bill is very superficial. This is where I don't share the opinion of the authors who have spoken and said that we have everything defined there. It's just a bill, so it seems that you've given the general ones, and legal regulation will have to be determined by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are many things that need to be taken into account. What is the purpose of adopting such a law? If it is important, write down all the standards immediately. Why do you leave the Cabinet of Ministers to do our work for us? Thank you. Oh, yeah, we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to voting for the law. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act of Critical Infrastructure (Registration No. 5219). Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. I already have. I'm sorry. Please support and vote. [[17:16:55]] For 318 Decision taken. Bill 5219 was adopted as a basis. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of Inventory (Registration No. 3743). At the rostrum, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Medjanik Viácheslav Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. Who's going to insist on editing? Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, license number 60 and 81. Edit number 60, please turn on the Aresonkov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, the bill is obviously important, it is a continuation of the previous one, which deals with the issue of exceeding the volume of transport, cargo and so on. See what the amendment says that we insist on? Taking into account possible errors associated with, for example, equipment for measuring the weight or nature of the goods being transported, a slight exceedance of the specific standards should not lead to any consequences. And the first option was, if up to 2 percent is overweight, and it could be either wetting, if it's grain, or the mass of other moments: the imperfection of the weight devices and so on, so up to two percent is proposed not to fine, but to start with these sanctions of 2 percent transport, advantage. Please set up the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u93	I'm betting on the vote number 60. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:19:22]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Amendment 81, Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, and another real-life situation that I'm describing to you. If agrarian producers who do not have the capacity at the place of dispatch, i.e. in the fields during harvesting, weigh precisely the load. And they will be obliged to pay huge fines because the apriors will not be able to provide actual information on the weight of the cargo, but fines will be fined 51 thousand dollars. So we suggest that there be an appropriate transport of cargo, reduce fines accordingly. Please put regulation 81 on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u95	I'll bet you number 81 of the People's Deputies of Aresonkov. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:20:48]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Amendment of People's Deputies Ivchenka, number six. Declined by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u96	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there is one problem in this bill: this is article 132-2 KUPAP. It provides for the liability of the consignor for exceeding the weighty standards, including the carrier, but it must be proportionate. That is, if the freighter sent a normal cargo, and the driver was loaded somewhere on the road, and so on, the freighter has to pay 51,000, and the driver, according to the rules, 5, 10, 15 percent. It takes both one and the other to be equally responsible, then it will be true. Even a violation of the Constitution, we're talking to you about the Basic Law, 25 years old, a violation of 61 articles of the Constitution says you can't impose various fines for the same offence. Colleagues, this is the problem, the illiterate preparation of article 132-2 KUPAP itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u97	I'm betting on the 6th vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:22:24]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next line is 55. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, this bill will complicate the work during harvesting, especially for farmers. A lot of cars are about to go to the ports, I understand we have to take care of our road cover. But, colleagues, let's do it right so that the liability of both the shipper and the carrier is the same, as far as he's gone, here are the corresponding standards-- 5, 10, 15 and 20 percent. A person who does not control or receive TTN may not receive the biggest fine, colleagues, 51,000. We're actually saying that he's not going to be the primary respondent, according to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u99	I'm betting on the 55th amendment of the People's Chamber of Yvchenka, and the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:23:37]] For-84
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u100	Z-84. The decision is not taken. 65 axles. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, now I'll give you an example. If, for example, up to 5 per cent of the cargo exceeds the cargo, the shipper will be fined 51,000 and the carrier will be fined 51,000, zero if between 5 and 10 per cent, the freighter will be 51,000 and the carrier will be 8500 if between 10 and 20 per cent, the freighter will be 51,000 and the carrier will be 17. There are, colleagues, and the illiteracy of the relevant bill. So, to my great conviction, until we correct article 132-2 of the KUPAP, I propose to stick to the bill or send it to work on those positions that I've just talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u102	I'm betting on 65 votes, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:24:49]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Who else will insist, Ustinova? I see. Klimenko, Ustinova. Let's go get it. Klimenko's less straight then? I can't hear you. Turn on Ustinov's microphone. Don't wave your hands, it's not swimming.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u103	My 11th grade.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u104	11 papers?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! I just want you to hear what you're about to be forced to vote for. This bill introduces unrealistic fines for carriers. And what they're telling you right now is that it's going to be automatic -- it's not. Because once the fine is automatically fixed, it enters a special centre where the inspector manually decides to send the fine or not. Considering that these fines are going to be 51,000, I can see how they're going to buy up, whose carriers are going to pay fines and whose carriers aren't. And instead of redrafting this bill properly, at the last second, we've had 23 readjustments there that we haven't considered on the committee. And I'll tell you that the conclusion of the judiciary came at 17:05, 20 minutes ago. Because no one has seen this bill in the final table. So if you want to bend the business now, you're on the right track.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u106	I'm betting on the 11th amendment, the People's Deputy of Ustinov and Klimenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:26:52]] For-98 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u107	Next item. Let's get the men. What's your next assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u108	82nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u109	52?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u110	Eight two, 82.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u111	82 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, if you read the conclusion of the judiciary, it is clearly stated that this violates the Constitution of Ukraine and the rule of law, it is indicated that people will now be fined an unrealistic fine of 51,000 dollars for documents that are not filled in correctly. But no one indicates how these documents should be filled out, and how will they be checked? If you open up and look at the statements made by the Ukratrans security leaders of their subjects, I can tell you in the last month the two heads of the regional administrations have been arrested, you'll understand how they're going to "shock" the business. I'm asking you very much to support this amendment, and I'm still going to give you the opportunity for the wrong paperwork that someone in the field is going to put together when the wheat is poured, and for that, we're going to drink $50,000 fines, and that's enough to choke the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u113	I'll bet 82 Ustinov's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:28:23]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Next Edit Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u114	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u115	Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u116	83 lashes. Once again, I emphasize that this amendment was still under another issue in the morning, but somehow we had a new table and we had all the changes moved, and those colleagues who applied for the bill would confirm it, and a legal authority that had only sent its conclusion 20 minutes ago. You know, at first we had "great theft," when we took the money from the hedge fund and rolled it into the asphalt, and now they want to take the money out of the business, because now they're going to be hand-in-hand, first of all, they don't understand how to check the overheads and for any overheads, they're going to be filled, they're not going to give you a $51,000 fine, and if they're going to charge you another $50,000. So 100,000 dollars is a double fine for one violation. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this amendment because even the legal department says it's a violation of the Constitution, which the owner can't bear for not being him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u117	I'm betting on a vote of 83 Ustinovovov's right. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:29:54]] For-98 No decision taken, no correction counted. 85th, Ustinova. Klimenko? Klimenko, 85 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, I'd like to confirm that at 11 a.m., there was a very different table on the Supreme Council website. Now my license plate doesn't match what was at 11:00 in the morning. There were additional revisions in this period between 11th and 16th, which can be traced very clearly. The amendment refers specifically to what has already been said — dragon fines for, for example, a rural accountant who accidentally misfilled TTN (a cargo consignment note), 51,000 bracelets. How do you imagine this is going to work, for example, agricultural business? How will small and medium-sized enterprises actually work? How is that even possible? Is this just an additional corrupt food shop instead of a sailor?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u119	I'm betting on a vote of 85 Klimenko. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:31:17]] For 105 For 104, no decision is taken. 88 revisions, Ustinanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u120	Colleagues, I'll tell you that the General Legal Directorate has written on a new draconian article that is now being introduced into the administrative code, where there will be fines of 51,000 fines, which, given the nature of the violation envisaged in the proposed new article (a violation of the TTN requirements, i.e. overheads) and the undesigned way to fix such a violation, the proposal to not apply to the article, the updated part of the second article of the Code on Administrative Offences, seems to be unacceptable in terms of its practical implementation, and therefore the draft bill does not take into account the legal definition of the law as an element of the rule of law, and this is a violation of article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The project requires substantial technical and technical back-up, which is the conclusion of the General Legal Office. Colleagues, you're now creating another corruption dining room, when we're sitting there, in manual mode, deciding who we're writing out 50 fines, 100,000 dollars, and who's on a 100-ton feed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u121	I'll bet you 88 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:32:47]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 117, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u122	Colleagues, the law applies to the fact that we are already discussing a lot, namely, the immoderateness of fines before a violation. If a paper is a fine of 51,000 dollars, a fine of 8.5,000 dollars is a fine. Please tell me what we're saving. This bill should be aimed at preserving the roads to which the state invested hundreds of billions of dollars instead to preserve roads and actually write fines for overcrowding, in fact it makes fines fundamental to paper. When there are large fines for papers, there is corruption and a constant dining room for individuals. So please think 10 times before voting for this bill. Thank you. Could I have your confirmation, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u123	117 revisions, I'll put it on confirmation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please identify and vote. [[17:34:14]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 123 revision, Ustinanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u124	123 revision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u125	123rd, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, once again I want everyone to hear, we don't have a so-called automatic fixation. You have an automatic camera that detects a violation of your PDR speed, and here you will detect a violation and overload of the Fur, will not automatically send a fine. And that's the problem, because as soon as there's a person sitting in a special center deciding who's going to be fined 50,000 and who isn't, there's huge corruption. I want to remind you that we are constantly being arrested by the Ukratrans Security Department. In the past month, we have had two detentions of heads of regional departments: the North, then the South (where everyone goes to the ports). So if you want to continue to expand the possibility of pressure on business, if you want to expand the possibility that business is going to happen again, because someone is going to be fined and someone is going to be redeemed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u127	I'll bet you 123 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:35:46.]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 133 axles. Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u128	Colleagues, corrections, and so on, they complement each other. These amendments apply to one – not to the proportionality of the fines to the infringement, but also to the issuance of fines and in fact to their assessment on a manual basis. The whole point of the bill is to install automatic weight complexes, write fines without the participation of any person and pay without the participation of inspectors. This is how corruption is eliminated. What's proposed is a new corruption that will actually kill both small farmers and large farmers and everyone. So now it's a clear set for "seeing" agribusiness. Therefore, I ask you to take my bill into account and not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u129	I'll bet you 133 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:37:09]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 142, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u130	Colleagues, my rights suggest that if the camera detects overload, then stops the inspector, re-evaluates, and then you can write a fine. And it's not going to be incomprehensible where it's incomprehensible. We already know that we already have untouchable ones chasing 200 now in Kiev and in the area, and then they don't pay the fines. Similarly, we will have untouchable furs that will drive 100 tons, but they will not be fined, but will write to those who do not want to go to corrupt bargaining. So I'm asking you very much to support these amendments, and if they're not taken into account, I'm going to put the changes that came out on the committee that we've all seen in the room all of a sudden, I'm going to put them on the stand and ask for no support. Because then you're going to create another corruption nurse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u131	I'm betting on a vote of 142 Ustinovov's. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:38:27]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 155 revisions, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, you know, today when I realized that we've had an additional 23 drafts, which are going on, considering that this bill has been on the committee for almost six months now, and we have every time you've submitted this bill to the committee and it's been taken down on the committee itself, I understand that we haven't been able to agree on who, and how much control it will take. It's just that I was disgusted because I feel like we're worse off here in the Supreme Council than we are at the market. Because there's any weight, and here you have a camera, and there's an inspector, and there's an inspector who's saying, I can tell you, at $187,000 a wife, at $100,000 a wife. One of the regional executives recently bought 1.5 million for his wife and wrote that she was, but she's already in the decree of two years, a car. And then that's exactly the kind of person who's going to collect this tribute, and now you're going to be forced to vote for it with a lie, because these corrections have been written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u133	I'll bet you 155 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:39:56]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next one is 178, Ustinova. Klimenko. Am I going to finish your turn?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, we have voted with you in the previous month on the Act on Habital Weight Control. The whole idea was to save roads where automatic control is done without the involvement of Ukratrans security inspectors, whose average salary is 6,000 dollars, and the temptation to get 200,000 dollars on one post every day is. Therefore, honourable colleagues, it is not possible to adopt laws that extend existing corruption rather than reduce it. Our goal is to save roads, save public investment, reduce corruption. This bill actually does everything the other way around: it increases corruption, it increases overload and the destruction of taxpayers' money. Please be careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u135	I'll bet you 178 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:41:19]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich. Tell me the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u136	No. 89. Dear colleagues, all the problems of the bill are related to article 132-2. Problems two: It is a double responsibility for the same offence and the immoderateness of the responsibility of the carrier and the consignor. Why a Double Responsibility? First of all, if an enterprise transports a connection, let's say a grain, it's both a carrier and a freighter. And it has to pay twice the fine. The second is immoderateness. A freighter who has nothing to do with the way a loaded car, when it is smaller, pays 51,000 fines at 1 percent of the overload. The carrier doesn't pay a penny up to 5 percent. From 5 to 10 percent, the carrier pays 8.5 thousand, the freighter pays 51,000, 10-20 percent pays 17,000. That is, it seems that it is done in such a way as to command, and the harvest is getting closer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u137	I'm betting on the 89th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Kucher, Kulinich and Bilozer. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:43:03]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Everything? Let's get to the vote, shall we? Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I take it we're going to the vote, aren't we? Thank you. Ustenova, please. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u138	I want to bet 15th, 31st, 40th, 75th, 91st, 99th, 100th, 120th, 121th, 122th, 136th, 137th, 146th, 170th, 194th, 195th, 196th, 198th, 199th, 200th, 201th, 202th and 203rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u139	1st and 15th, right? Can I ask you a list, if we can, so we can walk on it? The 15th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Medal, Monastery She's a committee member. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to take this amendment into account, so please support and vote. Support and vote. [[5:44:48]] For 240 Decision taken. The next amendment, what? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u140	Next Amendment 31. That's what I'm saying is that these are all the amendments that we found in the table just a few hours before the vote today. And who changed the text of the law. So, colleagues, I have a big request not to support these changes, because they're just introducing the possible corruption component that we're already talking about with colleagues today, all of the different factions, we're telling you. And fines that no business can take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 31. Which committee is counted. Please support and vote. [[17:45:42]] For 243 Decision taken. What's the next amendment? Please. You've got a red light on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u142	The 75th Amendment, which also appeared at the last moment. Which, once again, returns everything from what it was supposed to be weighing fur to what it would be automatic fixation, when someone would then decide who to send the fines and who not. Colleagues, you'll all have to go to the districts and explain to people how they're supposed to live with this kind of fine. Because now it's not because you're overloaded, it's because you're wrong about the paperwork, and you have to pay 50,000. Or, if you haven't put something in the field and you've got the wrong idea, you don't have the percent anymore, 1-2 percent that you can then reload, you're fine. And they'll call you and say, or we'll decide, or we'll pay you all the fines. So please don't support this amendment, it's a corrupt component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u143	I'm betting on a vote of 75. It's counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:47:09]] For 245
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u144	For 245. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. The next amendment is Alexander Yuriyevna. Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u145	Regulation 91.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u146	91st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u147	91st refers to everything that's already been said, irregular and disproportionate fines to a crime committed, not road protection, no protection against overload. So the 100 billion that were spent on roads last year are actually going to go bankrupt, because all the areas are: Odessa, Hersonska, those with ports, well know what roads look like after the agro season. So, please, let's do something to fight the overload, not fight the accountant who works for 6,000 dollars, and accidentally made a mistake in the cargo and transportation consignment note and got a fine of 51,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u148	I'll bet you 91 votes. It's considered editorially. Puts to the vote the committee's vote for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[17:48:37]] For 246 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Keeps it edited. The next amendment is Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, you know, we have a country of curved mirrors. Instead of fighting the coronavirus, we started putting in, remember, crazy fines when we had one guy, 11, I think, or how many cops were caught to pay 17,000 dollars a fine. Now, and I want to point out that we voted in favour of the basic bill on volume control, because it is necessary, and we need to save our roads now. But this bill, these fines have nothing to do with what was voted on at the beginning, because this bill does not impose fines for the overload of the fur, but introduces the possibility of a corrupt watchtower for Ukratrans. Few are so vaguely prescribed in the bill, and the legal authorities also say how documents will be examined. That anyone could be stopped and fined 51,000 dollars. So I'm asking you, this is not about saving roads. We were just supporting this bill. This is about corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u150	I'll bet you 99 votes. The committee is not supported. Supported and accounted for. It's on confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:50:15.]] For 249 Decision taken. 120 lashes, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u151	Colleagues, now we're talking about giving up functions. Partly give up the functions of the Ukratrans Security Police. So fines, as well as write-offs, assessment of who to send, who not to send, is important, will also be in the jurisdiction of the police. So you and I are now in a situation where not only Ukratrans safety, 6 thousand dollars will be "trafficked" on carriers, and also on freighters, and the police will be "trafficked." So, colleagues, I understand that money is needed somehow. You know, it's gotten less out of the mariners, and now it's gonna take more money. But let us still face the truth and keep the roads, not engage in corruption. Thank you. Please set up a confirmation check.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u152	I'll bet you 120 copies. It's supported by the committee. Puts the vote to the vote. Please support and vote. [[17:51:32]] For 242 Decision taken. 121 axles. Who, Ustinova or Klimenko? Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u153	Also, colleagues, I want to say that in a year, you'll understand. Which, for example, is in the UKTrans security budget for last year and this year there's not enough money even to write any documents. They're limited in their budget. How do you think they're adding to their budget and where they're taking money for the existence of Ukratrans, and for the extra Ivy that they have in the declarations that we can see in their parents' declarations? It's probably from carriers as well as from business. So you decided to tax the business with even more indirect taxes. I understand what you need to do in the budget. Not in the budget, not in the budget, but in the register. Yet, have a conscience, and stop punishing people, especially in rural areas, for 51,000 dollars. It's already going too far!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u154	I'll bet you 121 votes. The committee is supported and accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[17:53:00]] For 248 Decision taken. 122 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u155	Colleagues, number 136. It's about the same thing again: that this bill doesn't keep our roads. It's real. This bill will lead to the fact that the money of taxpayers, Ukrainian citizens who have been spent on repairs and infrastructure and roads, will eventually be transformed into the corruption income of individuals, including through Ukratrans security, I don't know, the police, some additional bodies that will stand. Please focus, make automatic weighing stations near ports, on national roads, so that they don't crash, instead of stretching out bills that will give you hundreds of millions or maybe billions of dollars in your pocket. Have a conscience! Spend this money on setting up, like in any European civilized country, automatic weighing, not inspectors who look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u156	I'll bet you 136 votes. It's considered editorially by the committee. It's on the committee's agenda. Please support and vote. [[17:54:40]] For 244 Decision taken. The edit remains edited. 137 law, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u157	Once again, the amendment of 137 refers to the same thing -- actually unfairly drawing fines from completely innocent people who may have made a mistake or perhaps not. This bill doesn't even have the possibility of an accusation, there's no possibility of discretion when, for example, a person accidentally, I don't know, wrote 3 kilograms. What's more, let's think about whether there's a weighing complex in each field for cars to get in, to weigh, to check, and to properly fill in the documents of the consignment note. No, there isn't. Ukraine can't afford to make weighing complexes on every field right now. Maybe for large farms, for large agroholdings, it's still possible to make weighing complexes. For an average, small farmer who wants to take his crops out with one car, it's impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u158	I'll bet you 137 votes. The committee was counted. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[17:56:13]] For 244 Decision taken. 146 revisions, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, everyone was celebrating a celebration yesterday, right, Constitution Day, and today you want to violate this Constitution and this is directly what the Supreme Council of Ukraine says. It's a violation of the rule of law. What is now being introduced is a separate article. Have you not yet received the fact that we are effectively voting on the permanent introduction of new articles or in the Criminal Procedural Code, or in the Code of Administrative Offences, and that we are constantly voting either on the increase of fines or on the increase of responsibility? You remember when everyone came and said that we had to adopt laws that would help us to do business. So I feel like we've got a traffic jam that's actually stopping any business. Because now all we do is raise our fines and raise our responsibility. And that's what even the Supreme Council's legal office tells you. And remember, when you looked at the Constitution yesterday, and when you celebrated the Day of the Constitution, today you will violate it by voting in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u160	I'll bet you 146 votes. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[17:57:46]] For 249 Decision taken. 170 right. Who, Ustinanova?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, I remember when we were elected the new president of Zelensky, one of the first things he did was to remove the head of Ukratrans Security. They're the ones who are going to do all this weight control and write fines for the wrong overhead. So you know, after that, others came. And then there was no reduction in the number of deviations, and even better, there was no reduction in the number of detentions of managers. Now, two weeks ago, the D.B.I. delayed the executive duties of the North Interregional Security Authority because he demanded, literally, a quote from the State Bureau of Investigation, "the Danine." So you can imagine what kind of extra tribute you're now giving to all these managers who are now going to have full control over the centers that are going to write fines, and who are going to decide who paid the tax, I don't know, there's 10, 20, 50 percent, so we don't write the fines. And those who didn't pay, we'll write the fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u162	I'm betting on a vote of 170. The committee counted it. So please support and vote. [[17:59:25]] For 252 Decision taken. What's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u163	194th Amendment, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u164	195 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u165	195 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u166	195 law. Colleagues, the state exists to create normal working conditions for business and the lives of citizens. And the state doesn't exist to raise, the main goal is to raise fines and actually drive people into corruption traps all the time. To do that is actually what we have to fight against. And you and I have been looking for days at how to increase fines, how to make extra bribes, how to impose administrative fees. Today, sorry, the D.B.I. wrote, from business. In order for the budget to become more expensive, it is necessary to develop and provide conditions for business, not to start by fines without reforming Ukratrans security, or the police, or all other organs with an average salary of 6,000 dollars. What do you think they will do in their posts? That's right, brother bribes. Because it's feeding.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u167	I'll bet you vote 195. It's taken into account by the committee, it's based on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[18:01:07]] For 249 Decision taken. 196 revisions, Ustinanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u168	Colleagues here say that the Voice faction on the committee has supported all the revisions. So, I can tell you that the committee had 23 fewer revisions than it did this morning in the table that was given out. So I have a huge request not to manipulate now. And I want to tell you that it's these 23 amendments that change the essence of the bill, because we talked about what we're going to think about, and now we're talking about automatic fixation, that's completely different things. Just like the part of the rights that apply to overheads and fines for wrongly filled documents, and now no, so I'm asking you not to manipulate them. And I want to remind you, last year, remember, we were all asked to vote on the Law on the Law, and they said that no one would be in Ukraine in a year, and in a year, 550 sanctions were imposed, so much so that they were all brought here, and here they were fined. So this bill is going to be the same thing, you're going to have much more corruption in a year, and much worse will be roads, because they're going to drive as they want and they're going to drive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u169	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u170	I would like to say that the reporter who represents our committee can get a cup of lies and manipulation after everything we've heard today because you personally voted on the committee for this bill. Secondly, every subcommittee and working group that I personally conducted with other deputies, you weren't there, you're lying to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u171	I'll bet you 196 votes. The committee was counted. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[18:03:20]] For 251 Decision taken. 198, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the bill and the table that were discussed on the committee, which was equal to five minutes, and when it was voted for, that was another number of rights. And what I'm saying is that this bill has been on the committee a lot of times and it's been taken and worked every time. And it's because most of my rights were taken into account at that point that we supported this bill. After I realized today that the number of rights has changed, and this is confirmed by colleagues who have rights, from other factions, we realized that the rights have been changed. And so now we realize that there's been a completely rewritten bill and in the form that it is now, we can't vote on it. And to you, Mr. Medici, I strongly advise, after all, to do fine work, not to put them in the table for the last second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u173	I'm betting on the 198 vote, the committee's been counted, it's on the confirmation. Please support and vote. [[18:04:40]] For 249 Decision taken. 199. Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u174	I want to tell you what I'm going to do and I'm going to do, in principle, and I'm going to do the corrections that were set out at 11 o'clock, as well as the ones that are offered now, and we're going to look at it, and I'm going to pass it on to the regulatory committee or the D.B.I. if there's at least one revision that wasn't in the table that I had at 11 o'clock. And I want to tell you, I'm the author of the bill and the rights, and I didn't get any invitations to your committee and subgroups. The edits were considered in closed mode completely under the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u175	I bet 199 votes, the committee was supported, counted, voted on. Please support and vote. [[18:05:48]] For the 250. Decision taken. 200 redundancies, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u176	I know everybody wants to go to football tonight, but maybe we won't be done by 10:00, because we still have a lot of bills and rights. In short, colleagues, returning to the subject of our law and regulation. I want to tell you that you've been in power for two years, two years, no reform, no central authority, including Ukratrans Security, at this point, there's no reform of weighing and preserving our roads. So please, no laws and dragon fines will help you, because sooner or later it'll all come out and it'll all be on the order of the day, including the change of this law. So please take the lead in reforming the government of the central authorities. And please stop thinking that if you accept this draconian bill, someone will pay these fines or someone will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u177	No. 200. It's considered editorially. It's on the committee's agenda. Please support and vote. [[18:07:26]] For 257 Decision taken. 201 correct. 202? 202 revisions, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u178	Dear colleagues, we've already beaten COVID with large fines. The whole criminality was overturned by the Law of Law. Fines were raised for anything that could only be raised in the last year in this country. The only thing that's left is for people to raise their fines for misrepresenting them. I have a huge request, read the conclusion of the judiciary -- it's a violation of the rule of law, they're talking about it openly. They say the bill needs work. We can't write out such big dragon fines. I'm going to compare you to the fact that we have the same penalty for driving in an unsuspecting state, or less than for writing the wrong note. It's not supposed to be like that in the state, and you're actually creating a corrupt dining room to make money from business again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u179	I'll bet you 202 votes. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[18:08:54]] For 259. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. And extreme readjustment, 203. Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u180	Colleagues, back in two years, had not made any profound reform in any State body. So they're working absolutely ineffectively, and even the PNBP sanctions don't help these organs work better. Let us mention 47 tax collectors who were called smugglers and were removed from their duties. What? The investigation was carried out, and all 47 smugglers returned to their jobs. You start getting sanctions on Ukratrans security and on inspectors who mark business, including small, medium and farmers, because then they'll come back, and you'll actually bleach them. That's how the state works -- instead of deep reforms, it does propaganda, including this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u181	A vote of 203 was taken into account by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[18:10:21]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of the Implementation of Humanitarian Weight Control (Registration No. 3743). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:11:05]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. We move on to the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Prevention and Dissemination of Coronation (COVID-19) on temporary grounds for non-administrative measures for violating the order of entry into or exit from Ukraine temporarily occupied territory (registration number 5478). No discussion. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[18:12:08]] For 261 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u182	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! For your consideration, a bill (registration number 5478) is proposed for non-application to Ukrainian citizens who live in temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine for periods of quarantine or for blocking entry-exit checkpoints, including on the basis of restrictive anti-epidemiological measures, fines for violating the procedure for entering or leaving Ukraine temporarily occupied territory, if such violations have arisen on the grounds of humanitarian character determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The relevant amendments are proposed to chapter III of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19). Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is very important. He will show the political step we take for those who live in temporarily occupied territories. Now that the occupying authorities have overturned the KPC, people are forced, not by their own will, to go to the territory of the Russian Federation and return to the territory of Ukraine. According to our legislation, the State Border Service imposes an administrative burden on them from 1,000 700 to 5,000 100. It is clear that this needs to be cleaned up, why we are asking, and on the committee, we have come up with a proposal to vote on the basis and in general, and we will ask Parliament to do so today, in committee editing. Because we are about to launch an introductory campaign, we really want our children living in temporarily occupied territories to enter the Ukrainian highlands. And that is the step that will allow them and their parents to travel to our territory without additional administrative connections. I also point out that this bill is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Public Borders, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the United Nations Monitoring Mission for Human Rights, the Coalition of Public Organizations, the Office of the Council of Europe in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office concluded that a single incorrect term is being used, but in the course of its consideration we ask that the technical and legal observations of the committee be taken into account. This is the only thing we've added: "administrative mergers and measures of influence for violating the order of entry into or leaving Ukraine temporarily occupied territory," is in the title of the law. And paragraph 2 of the draft law, paragraph 1, should also be added to the term “administrative charges and measures of influence for administrative offences related to breach of the order of entry into the temporarily occupied territory”. Dear colleagues, it's a very important law, it's a small technical, just two paragraphs small, so we ask the entire committee to vote on the basis of today's Supreme Council and in general, it becomes the law of Ukraine as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Well, yes, Arthur Volodymyrovich insists. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. I asked you if your name was different, but maybe something's changed in the last day. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kachuri Alexandre Anatoliyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u184	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, I think this is one of the first bills currently in place for the inhabitants of the occupied territories. It's a signal for all Ukrainian citizens right now -- that they're really Ukrainian citizens, that power and parliament, and they're all taking care of them. Because this question has really not been resolved for very long. Because people are not guilty of coming to them, to their territory where they now live, to the occupation authorities of all kinds. It's not people's fault that the Russian Federation isn't doing humanitarian work right now, and it's not opening up KPPW from the occupying side right now. Now occupied territories, people can't go through these checkpoints, even though they're open on Ukraine's side, and we're now asking the Russian Federation to do humanitarian sites. Now people can't cross, unfortunately, the border with uncontrollable territory. So I personally think that this is really a huge signal for Ukrainian citizens who are now in occupied territories, and this is a signal for the whole world -- that we want to settle this situation, that Donbas, Lugansk, Crimea is all Ukraine. I ask you to support the bill. Believe me, people will appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u185	The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Skrum Aloni Ivanovni, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u186	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. In fact, you know, once a year, once every two years, there are bills in the Supreme Council that help both displaced citizens and those who have remained in occupied territory and those who have remained or have been forced to remain in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, annexed to Russia. And here I want to actually thank the committee for the operational response, because I know that the committee has been approached by a coalition of public organizations that are dealing with humanitarian issues of forced displacement, of persons in occupied territory. And they said that, unfortunately today, the occupying power, the illegal occupation power in the Luhansk and Donetsk region, is not. locks down those CERs, even what's left over, we have two left. One of them is effectively blocked systematically and does not allow children or Ukrainian citizens to enter the territory of Ukraine. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has estimated that the number of crossings from occupied areas to Ukraine has now decreased by 35 times. This means that our Ukrainian citizens cannot come here for pensions, cannot come for health care, cannot send their children to schools here in Ukraine or to universities. In particular, the introductory campaign is about to begin and it will be terrible if the child, when he comes to Ukraine, is first impressed to receive a protocol on administrative misconduct and a fine of 5,000 dollars because he has broken the order of crossing the KPC border or has come from the Russian Federation because he cannot travel from occupied territory to Ukraine. That's why this bill is important to support. Maybe we have a technicality note, they are, but I think we're ready to support it on a basis and in general, because for children of the introductory campaign it's a powerful signal and it's a very important thing right now. And I wanted more of these bills to be considered in this room and not once a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u187	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u188	Please give the word to the co-chair of the European Solidarity faction Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u189	I'm afraid to call it a last name, but, Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u190	Dear colleagues, there really is a problem, it needs to be solved, and "European Solidarity" supports this bill. But, you know, I have another question. Why didn't this bill pass by Mr. Zelensky and take care of it? Let me explain. Because this problem does not interest him in the background of many others. In fact, the impression is that the Ukrainians are not interested. That's true when he talks about the wall around the Ukrainian Donbas, and that's also true of the tragic situation with the death of Sergeant Scout Jaroslav Crane, which is the case with the collapse of the operation on the "vagants." Because frankly, the real shock was Mr. Zelensky's confession to state treason during an interview with his business partner, Colomoysky. For the first time, Mr. Zelensky has personally acknowledged the existence of an operation by Ukrainian security forces to apprehend Russian terrorists from the V.V.C.V. Wagner, torn by the leak of classified information from his office. Although before that, I remind you, for almost a year he lied about this operation just like Putin was baptized by the "green men" in Crimea. Zelensky also admitted to calling Lukashenko himself to warn the Wagnerians. Moreover, he expressed satisfaction at the failure of the operation, and 3 tens of Ukrainian murderers escaped punishment. Just think about it. Imagine: Zelenski is glad that Ukrainian killers are not arrested or imprisoned. What kind of state does he live in? That's why we support the bill. With regard to today’s authority, let article 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 111 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine read each evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u191	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u192	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u193	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u194	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. All those who work with the Lugansk region, the Donetsk region, or the displaced people know this story very well and long ago. And in fact, we've actually taken time to accept, in view of these people who get systemic fines. I have received complaints, suggestions, and suggestions on many occasions. We discussed this, particularly with the professional vice-premier, that these changes should be made at least for the quarantine period and that the Ukrainians should be maximized from the ORDLO prison. Moreover, everyone who watches the news in the ORDLO and sees the turnout of this universal Russian national exam is well aware of the fact that the education of the ORDLO and the Russian Federation began to become fully integrated. And it is very important for us not to let the introductory campaign crash and at least see at least half of the children who would come and go to the Ukrainian higher level. That is why this needs to be accepted today in both the first and the entire bill. The Voice faction will support it. And of course, it's just about unlocking not only a walking entrance that is actually regulated twice a week and only in two places across the line, but that people can go in and normally at least for a period of quarantine while these eruptions of the Russian Federation shut them down in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u195	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u196	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I am a migrant, I feel all the pain that happens in those areas and in the peaceful Ukraine. How do the miners say you know about the sun when you weren't in the mine? What can we know when we are not at those crossings? I've stated on several occasions when we're leaving the group: Lukashev, Your Majesty, Sukhov on the station-Lugean crossing, when officials take money for a COVID test without a queue, when they're harassing the crossing, no one's paying attention to it. The president was driven 20 times in Potemkin villages, and nothing was shown until the city was built. Of course, we have to support this bill, we will do it, and the Trust Group will support it. But look at those people who are in need today, 1 million 700,000 displaced people all over the country -- 400 dollars of grants. Children don't go to school, they don't go to kindergartens, they don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u197	Let's go to the vote. The committee recommends the basis as a whole. Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine aimed at Preventing the Development and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (COVID-19)" on temporary grounds for not applying administrative measures for violating the order of entry into or exit from Ukraine temporarily occupied territory (Registration No. 5478). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:26:56]] For 290 Decision taken. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft law (registration number 5478). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:27:29]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster to increase the level of pension provision for individual categories of persons (registration number 4555). Can we put it to a vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on increasing the level of pension provision for individual categories of persons (registration number 4555). Please support and vote. [[6:28:45.]] For 297 For 294. Dear colleagues, 297. This law is due to enter into force from 1:07.2021. If there's no objection. If there are guarantees that there will be no blocking orders, we can put to the vote a proposal to allow the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the bill without delay. Ruslan Alexiyovich, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u198	Dear colleagues, the above-mentioned proposal is made and I ask you to support and vote. [[18:29:38]] For 293
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m1.u199	Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
