ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows, once again! In connection with the requirement of 165 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You are invited to have a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. Please prepare to register. As the registration goes on, I've been reminding myself today, I won't repeat it, the more Vlasta is gone. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:02:09]] There are 195 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u2	Dear people of Ukraine! In the east of our country, war. The aggressor builds up his strength. Every day, the enemy is turning our borders blacker and darker. People ask us: What does Parliament say about this? And Parliament is silent in this regard in the last days. That's why we're the representatives of the 603.7 Interfractional Union of Ukraine, and we're actually addressing everyone in this room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u3	I want to remind the audience and citizens of Ukraine that the war has been going on since the 14th. The 14th and 21st are a great period, and especially an extremely large and irreversibly lost period to recognize and accept the challenges of war in order to understand one simple thing that war alone cannot be won by an army. We need to fight our fellow citizens for their support. You know that Crimea has been turned into an unsinkable aircraft carrier that winged superstructure rockets that come out of the ban and can carry nuclear warheads are already in the Black Sea. You know that the Ukrainian Black Sea and Azov are the epicenter of threats for all of Europe, for North Africa, for the Middle East, not just for Ukraine. We need to adopt a number of extremely important bills starting with the Collaborators' Bill, concluding on territorial defence and finally carrying out the President's mandate that such draft laws be finally adopted in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u4	My colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have come to this Parliament to protect Ukraine. Ukraine is now in danger. We see Russia bringing its troops to the border more and more. We see what's going on here. And in Lugansk Russia is gathering lists for possible evacuation. What does that mean? This means that all of us here in this Parliament should give back to the legislature. And why, I have a question, are the representatives of the fifth column in this House still not responsible for working with the aggressor? And there are such bills in our Parliament. Let us adopt them and update our sanctioning legislation. I want to go to the international community separately. We appreciate your support. But we need to make sure that there is no aggression before it comes. Otherwise it's going to be too high a price, at the price of thousands of destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u5	Another statement was made about a break with a replacement for the performance. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u6	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. We haven't talked to the previous speakers, because I'm alone, and, I think many of you who know me are firmly convinced that in four days, when we're doing spam, rights and everything, we're not doing the most important thing, we're not preparing for peace through preparation for war. And if you knew your military colleagues or you were from areas where the line is located, you would have to know what the situation is today. And here's the situation today. What any civilian will ask you, what do we do, what do we do, what do we do, and what does it say, please? I'll tell you, I don't have to give them any information, because I don't think we're ready as a state. Why? It's normal to learn from the news what the President is saying, about the state in the east, what the situation is and how long we're ready for. I very much ask the President, as High Commander, to write down or exit and speak clearly to the Ukrainians, which plan of action: an economic plan, a plan of action for all the heads of district administrations, district administrations of state, which makes the head of the united community, starting with Sartana Donetsk region, ending with Stanice Lugansk and Happiness, whether we are ready. And you know what, in these four days, when we work here, small, large artillery boats have entered the Black Sea, which can head for the Azov Sea, which we lost. And we're not asking here the question of the denunciation of the Kerchen Agreement, which actually today turned the Azov Sea into a lake of the Russian Federation. Did you know that today they are preparing hospitals and bomb shelters? Do we have them ready, beginning with the Kharkiv region and ending with the Odessa region? I don't have much to tell you about the evacuation of Luhansk ODA or Donetsk ODA. I wouldn't want to, God forbid it to happen again. Are you all ready to answer to your constituents as far as we are concerned and as clear a plan of action as possible? I'm not calling for panic, and I urge everyone, starting with the President, the RNB, the government, to gather us all, to explain us, to bring us all together so that we don't sit on the floor side of the news, part of which is broadcast by the Fifth Column of the Russian Federation and completely misinformation in the media. Let's prepare together, it's not about politics, it's about a real threat that can happen in a very short time. I ask you to pay attention to this, to bring it to the President and, nevertheless, to wait for a concrete plan of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u7	Thank you. Please move on to the first issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and non-disclosure by the subject of a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a State or local self-government (registration No. 4651). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:09:11]] For 208 Decision taken. Malijka Denis Leontijovich, Minister of Justice, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u8	Good afternoon, colleagues. The Supreme Council of Ukraine had already reinstated criminal responsibility in December for misdeclaration and declaration of information in the declaration of officials following the Constitutional Court's decision, but unfortunately there were several procedural difficulties, shortcomings in the adopted law that prevented the system from working effectively so far. First of all, these crimes are referred to in the N.A.U.U.I., but these crimes are criminal offences, and they should be properly prosecuted, investigated for such criminal offences, a researcher. At the same time, the definition of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not provide for Detective NABU, according to NABU, to be able to effectively carry out knowledge on such a category of crime. The appropriate change of sanctions in the Criminal Code leads to such criminal acts and, accordingly, the NABU will be able to carry out a thorough investigation of such cases, such conduct. The second drawback is that they forgot to make changes in article 45 of the CPC and instead of 366-1 indicate articles 366-2 and 366-3. What does that mean? This means that it is not possible to apply the exemption from responsibility in connection with active repentance, and thus the change is now being proposed. Another important, one of the important amendments to this bill is the clarification of subjects with criminal responsibility. That is, the extension to those who have been released from their jobs, and during the year they are still making declarations, yet they are not formally liable. This is being corrected by a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, so I ask my colleagues to support such a bill and to ensure a reliable implementation of responsibility for unreliable declaration and non-declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u9	The head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u10	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Law Protection was prepared for consideration in the first reading of Bill 4651, submitted by the President of Ukraine. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Violations and the Ukrainian Criminal Code. With regard to the Code on Administrative Offences, article 172, with a mark of 6, adds accordingly "the subject warehouse is specified". With regard to amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 366, marked 2 “Declaration of Indiscriminate Information”, article 366, marked 3 “Not filing a declaration by a declarant”. The main legislators are: lowering the threshold of conditional lie in a declaration of four thousand living minimums for working persons, up to two thousand living minimums for working persons, everything above will qualify as part of the second corresponding article. Adds the type of punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty for up to 2 years, and also increases the fine. These criminal offenses are proposed to refer to corruption. As a result, those who have committed such criminal offences cannot be relieved of criminal responsibility in connection with the practice of repentance, the transfer of messages, the change of circumstances, and so forth. Nor can it be freed from the punishment of trial, the execution of conditional release, the replacement of the unspent portion of punishment with more softness, amnesty, pardon, will be applied under a suitably complicated procedure. Dear colleagues, the purpose of punishment is not punishment, the purpose of punishment is prevention and prevention. The committee agrees with the President and considers these actions to be such that they do material harm and are thus socially dangerous. Therefore, he proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the bill as the main one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u11	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u12	Please give it to Mikola Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u13	Mikola Babenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u14	Dear presiding fellows! Corruption today is a major threat to our nation. All of us Ukrainian society is tired of having the most expensive cars on our streets in the poorest country of Europe, and our officials are buying the most expensive real estate not only in Ukraine, but also in Western European countries, on the Lazarus coast of France. And this is really a question that needs to be addressed. But the question is this: To this day, what prevents active legislation from fighting corruption? Why do we not have a bulwark imprisoned today? Why, even today, even in this updated Supreme Council, which was said to be unprecedentedly updated, people who came in here yesterday, who were still unemployed, some have not done enough paid work and have never done business in recent years have they been buying elite cars. Where is the responsibility for this? And I want to say today that we will certainly support this bill, but we will be making amendments and these amendments will allow us to really increase the level of responsibility to that level and make it in a way that really our bulwarks have a real responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u15	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u16	May I have the floor to Sergio Ionushas?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u17	Ionushas Sergey Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in the event that the bill becomes effective, it will only take effect in 2022 with regard to the 21st year declaration. Thus, all the entities of the declaration, including the national deputies, have the opportunity to approach the declaration process more honestly and responsibly over the course of the year. I would like to remind you that at the end of last year, with the personal insistence of the President of Ukraine and the joint efforts of all the factions of Parliament, it was possible to restore the e-declaration system destroyed by the Constitutional Court. Dear friends, when you and I took the oath of the People's Deputies of the Ninth Call, I remind you that we have voluntarily agreed with you to report our income to the community in good faith and in a transparent manner, and we have realized that in the event of a deliberate non-declaration of assets for the sum of about 500,000 dollars, over 500,000 dollars, we may be subject to criminal and legal measures. To date, this threshold is one million dollars, and the increase in punishment for such a criminal offence, including in the form of a restriction of will and willlessness, seems to be quite logical. The penalty of deprivation of liberty for up to two years is proposed by this bill to impose only, I emphasize, and only for deliberately failing to declare and submit false information. This standard is called on to level cases where the declarants simply cease to submit declarations. The changes proposed by the President regarding responsibility for declaring unreliable information are fully in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. I urge my colleagues to support this bill in their first reading and take another step towards countering corruption in Ukraine. I'm ready to work with my colleagues from different factions to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u19	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u20	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! For more than three years this standard has been in force. Let me see who's been put on that list. The head of the silage was planted? Show me the top corruption workers planted in this article. Here a colleague was just talking about the recommendations of the Venice Commission. The recommendations of the Venice Commission are to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, whether you like it or not. The Constitutional Court in this regard has made it quite clear that this responsibility is not commensurate with the gravity of the crime. The Supreme Council made a completely balanced, absolutely thorough decision, restoring responsibility, but noting that this responsibility should be in the form of a restriction of will. The limitations of will are also a very and very high level of responsibility. Is there anyone who thinks that the limitations of choice are a resort? It's not a resort, it's almost the same prison, with a slightly easier detention. But it's also a restriction on the will of man. And the key. I reiterate that if we want to build the rule of law and not to engage in populism, we have to make decisions, even decisions that we don't like. I am convinced that the ignorant person who advised the President to introduce this bill had one goal in mind: that the Constitutional Court should cancel it for the second time. And then start again at the Constitutional Court of Attack. But these are obvious things. If they once said it was illegal, the second time they'd say it was illegal. And in the period that this will work, if you vote for it, everyone will be on the hook. This law is also being introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u21	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u22	Colleagues, do not be afraid to correct mistakes. At the end of last year, we all made mistakes by softening the responsibility for lying in declarations. On December 23, the President signed an imperfect law. The next day, with the Voice faction, we registered a bill that returned the prison to be responsible for the lie in the declaration. And now we don't have to be ashamed, we take this law as a basis and as a whole. There's nothing to work on. If in our system, Andrew Antonenko can actually be closed for six months at all without any facts, it looks normal. When the prospect of being closed for seven years is 300 dollars, it looks normal. And now I'm just going to give you a little list of things that I forgot to say to myself, Constantine Brill, who was the head of the Branch District Administration: Range Rover, 4 Mercedes, a 240-square house in Kiev, 189 square meters in Preylaslav, constant travel and recreation with the entire family, where more than $45,000 was spent on tickets. And he did not bear any responsibility for this, for the Constitutional Court, by breaking this article, forced the Supreme Anticorruption Court to close the case. That's the answer to the question: where are the big landings? You have re-entered a zero declaration. For this not to be and this truth to be said by the forerunners, we need to be based on it as a whole. The "voice" will vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u23	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, if there's anything to be afraid of in this room, it's to be afraid of violating the Constitution of Ukraine. We're not going to break the Constitution of Ukraine. And within a limited period of time, I would like to say that we support what a colleague said as a representative of the Fatherland faction, Sergey Vlasenko. We are disappointed by yesterday's majority vote on tariff issues. And explain to people how you want to protect social interests, how you want to enter the same river twice, violating the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of October 27th. This will end with the Constitutional Court rescinding this decision that we are going to make today. We have limitations of will, that's not enough? Little discipline is given to rural council members, so show us who you can punish, who you have punished for the two years you have been in power. Therefore, our parliamentary group will abstain from this vote, calling on representatives of other factions and groups not to violate the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u25	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and the failure of the subject to declare a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a State or local self-government (Registration No. 4651). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:24:48]] For 283 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Constitutional Procedure Act (registration number 4533). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:25:24]] For 237 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u26	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable People's Deputies! In accordance with the Supreme Council Order of January 28, 2021, "To re-read the draft Constitutional Procedure Act," your opinion is proposed by the revised draft Constitutional Procedure Act. I would like to point out that on March 22, this year, the Venice Commission published its conclusion on the bill and commended its position. We take into account the comments made by the Venice Commission. First of all, we've ruled it out, and I'm stressing that the rule on increasing the number of votes is necessary for the decisions of the Constitutional Court to be adopted. We propose leaving the current order for the decisions of the Constitutional Court with the 10 votes of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, according to the recommendation of the Venice Commission, we have worked out the grading of sanctions for the judges of the Constitutional Court within the framework of disciplinary conduct, taking into account the principle of proportionality. The Venice Commission rightly pointed out that the existence of a single sanction today in the form of the release of a judge of the Constitutional Court substantially undermines the guarantees of independence of the CSA. We accepted that offer and considered it. We have foreseen that the Constitutional Court should be empowered to regulate the procedure for dealing with matters that are not governed by the Constitutional Procedure Act. In this way we have fully met the requirement for the autonomy of the Constitutional Court in settling its business issues. Similarly, we have foreseen that the KSC will be able to withdraw without restriction from its previous legal positions if the Constitutional Court judges are brought to criminal liability for the surrender of bribes. Colleagues, this bill has been supported by all constitutional law experts and the Reanimation Package Reform, which is a recognized expert in this field. I ask you to support this bill and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u27	Please sign up: two in, two in. From MP factions and groups. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u28	Please, Oleg Macarov's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u29	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, on January 28, this year, we voted in our first reading of the Constitutional Procedure Act and did not support it, sent it back to our first reading. Why? We wanted to draw the conclusions of the Venice Commission and, taking into account the conclusions of the Venice Commission, to submit a new bill. When did the Venice Commission reach its conclusion? March 22nd. When did the committee recommend it before the first reading? April 1st. How many days after that? 8. How many people have read the findings of the Venice Commission in these eight days? How many people have read the draft, the bill that we are now planning to vote on? Raise your hands who voted him, honestly. Olga Volodymyr. Who read it? One, two, three, four, five. I see, I do. These 10 people read it. Our task as deputies is to create institutions, to improve them, not to destroy them. This is the Constitutional Court, it's a constitutional procedure without much discussion. Without all the rights of the Venice Commission, we cannot accept it in haste. The bill appeared on the site just a week ago. Part of the recommendations of the Venice Commission have been taken into account but not included in the recommendation for a transparent selection procedure and a competition for candidates before the Constitutional Court. There are no recommendations for disciplinary action regarding the capacity of the executive and the President, more specifically, to the inability of the President and the executive to file complaints. We think we should reject it now, more specifically, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u31	Calchenko Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u32	Please pass the word to Olga Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u33	Olga Volodymyrna's wife.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, regardless of the MP's faction, please believe that the adoption of this law is in the interests of absolutely all MP factions, because this law on transparent and democratic rules of work of the Constitutional Court. When the opposition tells us that they think they should uphold democratic standards in this state, and they don't support a bill that the Venice Commission has approved, I have questions about what are the values underlying the opposition's activities? The opposition must be constructive, colleagues. And when you're sitting at the Legal Policy Committee, you don't make any remarks to this bill, and you just hold back without any comment about the vote. Do you know how many amendments were made to this bill after the first reading? Colleagues, three amendments were made after the first reading. That's before the previous speaker said they didn't make it there. I'm sorry who wanted to, and who had the remark, he was able to do it. And those amendments were completely taken into account. Colleagues, in the Constitutional Court, there are bills relating to the abolition of parliamentary immunity, land, anbanding, and many other bills, language, and so forth. In the interests of absolutely all factions, introduce transparent rules of consideration. And I urge you to do so. And last but not least, colleagues. If anyone thinks that it will not be personally relevant to the Constitutional Court's decision, I want to tell you that the most interesting decision of the Constitutional Court, which I predict, is the decision to end the term of office of the Supreme Council in 2023 or 2024. So please consider whether we need a Constitutional Court with transparent working rules. I think that for those who work constructively, the answer is yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u35	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Head. It is very easy to accuse opposition of all its faults and shortcomings. But I'm going to remind you of the history of this bill in fact. A few months ago, a number of colleagues from the "Sergeant of the People" registered a bill amending the Constitutional Court Act, which tried to destroy the power of the Constitutional Court by raising by 17 persons, respectively, the number of judges to participate in the session and up to two thirds in the need for a vote in favour of the Constitutional Court's decision. In this room this affair did not go through and then we decided to go the other way: and let's get some of the procedural points out of the Constitutional Court Act, so let's take some of the pieces out of the Constitutional Court Rules and write some third bill that we'll call something about constitutional procedure. Friends, any procedure in the Constitution is constitutional. Dozens of procedures like that. It's an absurd bill. Moreover, now that the Venice Commission has given in hand, and we have returned the rule of both the power of judges and the necessity of voting by a majority of the constitutional composition, this bill has lost substance at all. It was not worth voting for, but rather to leave the relevant Constitutional Court Act, correcting it by the Rules of the Constitutional Court. But it is extended because in "transitional situations" they are once again trying to remove from the Rules the rules that allow the Supreme Council to amend the Act amending the Constitution if the Constitutional Court makes a warning in its conclusion on such a bill. We're once again separated and trying to take away the constitutional right to react and to participate directly in the process of making changes to the Constitution. Guys, that was seven calls. For 20 years the MPs didn't dare do that. Only Janukovich wanted to do this, but then the faction against him was the very faction of even the parties of the regions and Communists and, above all, the presidency of the Supreme Council. Your Honor, the majority, don't let that happen. You didn't create this nor do you. Let's save it for the next generation of times you don't need it. Shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u37	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u38	Thank you, Mr. Head. I was among those who read the conclusion of the Venice Commission, and I can say that this bill does not correspond to about 20 of the recommendations of the Venice Commission set out in the relevant conclusion. So we don't have to tell us stories that are scary. That's the first one. But it's very interesting to hear, you know, about the standards, about the constitutionality, about the Constitutional Court, about the person who put in the Old Age Act the amendment that allows her to address the Constitutional Court judge without a parliamentary mandate, as we now have in the Constitutional Court Act. So today, in order to become a judge, you have to first draw up a mandate and then run. So we don't have to talk about it. read our morals and tell us about our morals. And we'll take a closer look at amendment 138 to the Law that we're going to be considering today, about old age. And let's put it on confirmation, and let's see what you're going to tell us about standards, about constitutionality, and how to act in life. You know, that's what the previous authorities did when they passed the law under one Attorney General, changing the law to a specific person. Therefore, there is no need to change the law under a particular judge of the Constitutional Court. That's the first one. And secondly, let me stress again, read carefully the conclusions of the Venice Commission. The findings of the Venice Commission have not been implemented by this bill. And then we're like constructive opposition, but the opposition that meets the standards and supports the Venice Commission, we're going to vote in favour of the Venice Commission, not the bill that you're proposing to us and that doesn't respond to those conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u39	Did everyone want to come out? Batenko, let's move on. Germany. Then we go to the vote. Two more speeches from the motive. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, we need a Constitutional Court whose decision will be respected and enforced by all, particularly the acting deputies in the Supreme Council, of this calling. And I hope, and our "For the Future" MP group hopes that the destructive practice of disbanding the Constitutional Court in the past and can never be restored in the future. So we agree with the conclusions we have drawn. We agree that we need to take into account the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which have come quite recently. We also welcome some of the novels that are in this bill on constitutional procedure, particularly one of the biggest things that is decided by most judges of the Constitutional Court, i.e. 10 members, not 12 as suggested in the old edition. That's why our MP group will believe and vote in the first reading in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u41	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, you've been duplicating a bill that was already under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Believe me, in this case, it is a matter of trying to paralyze the activities of the Constitutional Court, first of all, to condemn the judges. This regulation, which is proposed and duplicated in individual cases by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Act, just reminds us that this bill came about only when the President passed his bill on the cessation of the activities of the Constitutional Court, but the President understood and recalled. The Venice Commission said clearly and unequivocally that the Constitutional Court is the guardians, the guardians of the Constitution, the guardians of the Constitution in the hierarchy, and it protects the Constitution and protects our rights and freedoms. And so I would ask you not to support this bill is a disgrace. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u43	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the draft Constitutional Procedure Act (Registration No. 4533). 4533. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:40:38]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. By factions, please show me. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the enforcement of the decrees, Sorry (5058). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:41:20]] For 243 Decision taken. Paul Valeriyovich, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u44	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Today, two regimes are in place on Ukraine’s roads to hold the intruder responsible for traffic and parking violations. This is an automatic mode when the offence is fixed by stationary cameras, as well as by photo, video, when a police officer or parking inspector detects violations of the rules of parking, parking, or parking on a mobile phone. For violators who pay a fine in the first 10 days, there's a 50 percent discount and an absolute majority of auto-lovers have already paid for the rulings in the first 10 days. But the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences requires that this order be sent to the offender’s address. And it turns out that good-for-nothing offenders, if you can say, who have already paid the fine, will get the ruling, the same executed decision, the second time, will get the extra stress, and at the same time, both the police and the local authorities, which fines the parking inspectors, are millions of dollars. In particular, by 2020 alone, the police had spent 60 million dollars to send orders that had already been made, that is, orders that had already been enforced, that had been recognized by the wrongdoers and that had already been fined. Thus, the bill stipulates that no executions have been made, if these decisions have been carried out for 15 days, should they not be sent. This will save both the budget and the good - conscienceed car owners from further stress. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u45	The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u46	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting on March 3, 2021, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Enforcement. The purpose of the bill is to abolish the obligation to send the recommended letter to the postal address of the offender of administrative offences that have been made and paid, which in turn will reduce the cost of the state budget. For example, the Department of Police's printing costs and the issuance of administrative fees for administrative offences in the area of road safety, recorded automatically in 2020, amounted to more than 60 million dollars. The majority of these costs were unnecessary and effective, since most of the decisions at the time of departure have already been made. As for the committee's decision. The Committee on Law Protection approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the first reading of the decrees. And I'm also asking you to shorten the deadline for filing rights to second reading. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u47	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Arsenic Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u48	I want to give the word to Dennis the Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u49	The Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! Very briefly the essence of the bill and its request to support it, to work quickly on the second reading and to vote in general. Every month, the budget loses 6 million dollars to pass orders that people have already paid fines. I mean, he's coming. If a fine comes, a person pays it immediately, after that comes a paper solution, a recommended letter that costs a lot. So this is a technical regulation that will allow you to save the budget. I think we should definitely support and vote in the second reading next plenary week and in general. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u51	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u52	Pass it on, please. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u53	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the Voice Party and the Voice faction have always supported the development of electronic tools in law enforcement. This bill really provides an opportunity to eliminate corruption risks and increase the effectiveness of law enforcement work on the road. We welcome that. But when the committee discussed it, it was noted that there was a defect in the last paragraph that needed to be corrected in order to eliminate the risk of invalidity in the decision to bring responsibility. So we call for a vote in the first reading, a cut in time so that it can be adopted as a whole as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u55	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u56	I'd like to give Rudik a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u57	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, of course, our parliamentary group will vote in favour. I think the whole part of our room should support this decision. It's supposed to be technical, but because of such imperfect procedures, because of the extra work, police and other services, they're dumping people with documents that are essentially unnecessary. Well, obviously, if a person paid a fine on the spot for 15 days, there would be no sequel to this story. We should be concerned about another problem when a person finds out absolutely by accident when he comes to the store or tries to obtain a service that has blocked bank cards. She's starting to get nervous and look where she did something wrong. The first recommendation is look at "Act" and if you don't have a speed limit or any other type of traffic-related offence. The person is looking: no, no problem, no space. It's starting to look further. Call the bank. The bank says, "No, there's a problem with it." "And how can we verify that?" – "Here's the number of the executive service that banned you from using the bank card." The person starts calling this phone to the person responsible for the work. The person responsible is not picking up the phone. The person picks it up on a cell phone, the person doesn't pick up the phone. So, colleagues, because at this point the police were doing secondary work, and the executive is doing secondary work. These things, these procedural imperfections, are suffering a great number of people. Let's put these changes in the second reading. Our task, the national MPs, is to maximize human lives and minimize bureaucratic barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u59	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u60	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u61	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u62	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In fact, it's a very good legislative initiative, one of them to avoid the human factor when it comes to making decisions about traffic violators. It's important that we not only talk about the cost savings for sending a message. We also have to take account of the second reading so as not to violate the constitutional rights of a citizen when he wants to challenge the decision. In fact, the automation of road traffic regulations should lead everyone, first of all, in a preventive way, to understand the irreparability of punishment, in the event of road traffic violations, and, secondly, to the state budget. It's important to talk about it. The previous colleague spoke of the facts that now show that a person has nothing to do with violating traffic rules or similar or similar license plates, and is being blocked by both bank accounts and others. We believe that it applies to this bill so that we can also adopt amendments to a number of other laws regarding the fixing and sending of messages if, within a 15-day period, the offender has failed to pay the fine and this does not mean that he will avoid paying similar fines at all in the future. The Fatherland faction will vote "yes" in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u63	Aresonkov, Knjazevich, then we go to the vote. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. This bill, including those recently supported by the Supreme Council on the creation of conditions for the work of our law enforcement agencies, the creation of conditions for all road users. On the one hand, it's the help of law enforcement, but perhaps more attention is given to creating conditions for people, for drivers. So the bill, we're counting, is extremely correct, useful. The only one we offered was that he should be accepted as a whole. Because especially if there's nothing to work on. That the colleagues offered to make technical adjustments there. I think we can quote them and introduce them into this law right now. So the trust MP group will vote and I suggest you consider accepting it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u65	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u66	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you, Your Honor. We don't object to such a proposal, because indeed, if a person has learned through his own personal office and within the scope of that debt regime that he has paid, he has paid the fine, then there is no point in re-sending this person's written version of this kind of decision yet, we don't see and purposely save the budget here. In this part we support, but we have to move on. I think we should have thought first of all about drivers who don't use their personal office. Someone doesn't have Internet, someone doesn't have access, someone doesn't want to. From what point do they get this kind of tax treatment? This is a serious problem right now. Since when did the postman make this decision? Since when has man taken this decree into his hands or since when has he come to pay such a decree accordingly? This incomprehensible who brings chaos and, sadly, not for the benefit of the driver, but for the benefit of the State, such disputes are resolved. So we need to continue to solve this problem, to go along with the corresponding logical movement, so that human beings can be right in this situation, not the state, because man pays the state, not the state of man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u67	Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Prepare to vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Enforcement (5058). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:54:52]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in line with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare the bill (registration number 5058) for the second reading. Please support and vote. [[16:55:30.]] For 263 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Industrial Parks on Facilitating the Creation and Promotion of Industrial Parks (registration numbers 4416, 4416-1). A national MP is invited to attend. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:56:09]] For 252 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Labazük Sergey Petrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u68	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Ukraine's priority is to move from the raw economy to the value-added economy. Only this will allow us to create new jobs, raise wages, and perform the social tasks that lie ahead of us. And to find the cost of the different nature of the expenditure that the government is now artificially trying to finance. Bill No. 4416 called for the relaunching of industrial parks in Ukraine. It's an "for" argument. This bill is a statistic that shows the real inefficiency of the operating system. For the sake of understanding. In the Ministry of Economics register there are now 43 industrial parks. Most of them, not that they don't work, but now they don't have participants, and some of them have even a management company. Moreover, the economic activity, at the end of the 20th year, was carried out only in three industrial parks. Based on this data, the efficiency of the parks is less than 7 percent. I want to ask you: is this because we have the perfect system or maybe the perfect industrial situation? Everything good and stimulating it is not necessary, is it still a problem in the non-working system? Of course it's the other one. The current legislation is imperfect, both in terms of organization and park activity. That is why the basic bill 4416 simplifies the formation and participation of parks. First of all, we're cleaning up the right of people who are interested in the industrial park to offer the concept of the park on their own. Secondly, we foresee clear and comprehensive forms of government support, namely, channelling public and local budget self-government funds into industrial parks through subsidies, borrowing when purchasing equipment for parks or capremonting. Unlike the alternative, 4416-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u69	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u70	A presentation can be made, please. Is it? And on the sixth slide right now. Thank you, colleagues. I support what I just said by the reverend author Labazük. I just want to give you a few numbers. You know that over the last three years, as many as four projects have been funded for 7 million dollars. 7 million dollars in 3 years is actually the cost of one grain harvester or four bitcoins. This is the money that was invested in our industrial parks. What are industrial parks in fact, colleagues? Industrial parks are, to some extent, an economic vaccine because today, in Hungary, for example, they allow for about 20 percent, 30 percent of the country's GDP. In the same Poland, they allow about 10 billion euros to be invested in just one settlement called Katowice. In Turkey, they stimulate between 25 and 30 percent of the total industrial output that we have dropped by 5.2 percent in just 20 years. And to date, our Bill 4416-1 proposes three key weakenings in order to finally launch these industrial parks. We're talking about connections to power lines, 50 percent compensation. We're talking about compensation for interest on credit. And we're talking about compensation for a share of capital investment. Colleagues, in favour of this bill, you are voting for real structural changes in Ukraine's economy. And I'm asking you very much to support this, because this bill is just the first of the general system and the body of other bills that will allow us to run this tool fully and make our industry competitive in the global market. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u71	The deputy head of the Committee on Economic Development, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The Committee on Economic Development, meeting on February 17, 2021, in video conference mode, reviewed the Ukrainian Industrial Parks Laws: 4416, amending the Ukrainian Industrial Parks Act on Facilitating the Creation and Promotion of Industrial Parks, submitted by Labour and others, and 4416-1, amending the Ukrainian Industrial Parks Act, aimed at investing in the industrial economy through the introduction of incentives in industrial parks, submitted by national deputies of Nataluha and others. The purpose of both of these bills is to fill the real meaning of such an economic development tool as industrial parks. Around the world, they are a tool for creating jobs where the community needs them. Successful countries use this tool very widely. In Hungary, about 30 percent of the country’s GDP is generated in industrial parks. And in Ukraine, only 7 of the 48 registered industrial parks are active, and their impact on the economy is zero. The reason is very simple is that there is no incentive. Now only financial incentives are offered and very little, but even these little steps are very important and necessary. Communities benefit greatly from industrial parks, for they will have an effective economic development tool in their own territories. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusions of February 15 comments on the two bills submitted, and according to a discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the members of the Committee have decided to submit Bills 4416 and 4416-1 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt Bill 4416-1 on the basis of the first reading and, accordingly, to reject Bill 4416. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u73	Please write two in, two in, and two in factions. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u74	Please pass the word to Gmerenecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u75	The Gerenic Alexius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u76	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like to continue my argument of why this argument is very much needed in Ukraine and to see how Turkey, Hungary, Poland of industrial park residents are encouraged to come and invest in Ukraine. In Hungary, for example, 80 percent of the tax reduction is offered to residents of industrial parks for the first five years. Payments of 1,300 euros are offered for each new employee who begins his work in industrial parks. And also a 50 percent discount on the only social contribution. If we say, for example, about Poland, 15 to 50 percent of all investment involved in the industrial park, because the country understands that in the future these will be employee income taxes, this will be a high added value that will remain in Ukraine, these will be technologies that will develop the domestic industry. Turkey is the same. This is the exemption from the import duty on equipment, the exemption from land taxes, the exemption from taxes on raw materials processed in the country. Surprisingly, it is these countries that are the neighbours of Ukraine that involve the major mass of investment, the major mass of companies, and then these companies are enriching the work of domestic technology, the domestic expertise of those countries. Ukraine can't afford not to create investment incentives now when there's a real fight and war for every working Ukrainian, and that's in high-tech companies. Neighboring countries are launching entire programs for the rescue, after relocating workers to their own industrial parks, offering them housing, learning, qualifications, discounts and everything else. So finally, in Ukraine, we need to create any magnets and incentives for the relocation and traffic of a highly skilled working population, and in order for people to return to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u77	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Industrial parks, as noted by previous speakers, are really a very important tool for industrial development and for the involvement of investors and investment in many countries of the world, especially our neighbours, in Poland. And unfortunately, it happened that in Ukraine, industrial parks haven't acquired this kind of development in recent years, and they haven't even become where they were created, they haven't been filled with new investments, so investors haven't come in and they haven't created jobs. This is, of course, primarily because there were no proper conditions created at the state level. Because valid legislation does not provide so many advantages for industrial parks over other areas. And maybe that's why it didn't motivate investors to come to our country, invest in money and create jobs, and thus ensure the lives of our families and families in our communities. In fact, to solve this problem, a bill has been created that proposes to create additional incentives that will encourage investors to enter industrial parks. So our communities will make these areas industrial parks and they will have something to offer to a foreign investor, some conditions for which he will agree will come, and that will give jobs and make our local communities more capable. I therefore propose to vote on the basis of this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u79	Eugene Nina Petrovna. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u80	Dear Ukrainians, in fact, we're listening to a series of stories about the "potemkinian" and "green" lines. Since there is no money in the budget, the over-planned deficit of the Pension Fund now accounts for more than seven and a half billion dollars, no money in the hospital, and delays in hospital payments and salaries. And at that time, we're told a whole new story about how they're going to be giving absolutely groundless benefits to some of their designated businessmen. Actually, what's going on in medicine today? We know that again, it's absolutely a crime that the government has decided from the health insurance budget programme in one day to shift six and a half billion dollars to the purchase of a vaccine. Excuse me, why did you put money in the asphalt for "great theft"? And "European Solidarity" insists that there should be an immediate interlocutory meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of pandemic resistance itself. We demand that funds be redistributed from the budget, not to industrial parks for their own and for their investments, but that they be taken from the President's Office, from the power and reprisals, and handed over to the medics and the military. We demand that the Security and Defence Council be held on the issue of vaccination. We need to examine very well, and who is to blame for the collapse of vaccination. And I'll tell you, it's not Stepan's, it's not Schmigal's, it's Zelensky's, because he's assigned Smigal and Stepan's and the previous all of your ministers and those you're going to put after Zelensky's. And we thank every national MP who signed the European Solidarity Initiative for holding an extraordinary meeting on the pandemic. Among these 150 signatures, there's not just a majority signature because they're dealing with the Potomkin villages and thinking about how to steal money from a poor Ukrainian budget. Think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u81	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Is anyone going to insist on anything else? Sobolev, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, we have looked at the agenda offered today by the majority. Before I say good things about industrial parks, I want to say that there is no issue of tariffing in Ukraine with the support of ordinary citizens. We thank you, I think the citizens thank you for having successfully failed our initiative yesterday, the initiative of other factions and groups to return to the first 100 kilowatts to electricity, which was before January 1, the moratorium on electricity prices and gas transport, thank you, and our citizens will remember that. As for today's question about industrial parks, I want to say that our MP group, our representatives, are very productive in working on it, particularly Sergey Labazük, who reported on this bill. We know that there are supposedly many industrial parks in Ukraine, 43, and at the same time we have a difficult procedure to operate them. In fact, out of 43 parks, only less than half of the companies selected are in charge, and there are only three parks where there are as many as eight participants, that is not a serious approach. There's a difference between our bill and the alternative bill. In short, I want to say, our basic bill 4416 is about industry and processing, and the alternative bill is not really about industry. So our MP group calls on all factions and groups of parliament to support an effective mechanism for relaunching the industrial parks mechanism and activities (No. 4416) in the first reading, even on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u83	Now with the motives of Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, then Vasilchenko, then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u84	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues. How does a business that does not work in an industrial park differ from that in an industrial park? So you're saying three benefits, if you're in an industrial park, a simplified procedure will power you up, and if you're not in an industrial park, you have to pay bribes? If you're in an industrial park, you'll be compensated for your investment project, and if you're not in an industrial park, you'll have to pay the bribe? If you're in an industrial park, you're going to get paid off, and if you're not in an industrial park, you're going to get bribed again? The key principle of economics is the level of conditions. Create them for all, non-investment parks and industrial parks. You want a simplified procedure of connection – changes in the law, and this should work for all businesses. Don't create whites and blacks, it ends in bribery, it ends in corruption. We won't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u85	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u86	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, there's no secret that because of the coronary crisis, the hard elbowdowns, the quarantines of the weekend, the Ukrainian economy suffered a lot. Just think of the figures: About a million Ukrainians lost their jobs in just last year, and the promised 300,000 jobs from the government were seen in the media. Of course, this problem needs to be solved and one such tool can actually be the development of industrial parks that will help attract investment and create new jobs. The legislation on industrial parks is clearly imperfect and needs to be amended. But this bill also contains many flaws, and between the first and the second readings it clearly needs to be corrected. On our part, we will definitely make the offer. But it also remains an open question for us to ask: Why aren't these considered in the next few sessions?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending the Industrial Parks Act of Ukraine, aimed at investing in the industrial economy through the introduction of incentives in industrial parks (Registration No. 4416-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:15:20.]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending Appendices 3 and 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 to ensure the activities of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. I understand there's not a lot of law enforcement, please don't split up. Who's going to insist on editing? On the list, then. 7th row, Shahov. Don't insist. Reverend, 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Economics is constantly demonstrating its own inefficiencies. He owns hundreds of state - owned enterprises that have become bankrupt or close to it as a result of criminal management. At the same time, the COVID epidemic has demonstrated that food security is an important guarantee of a strong state. So, of course, we're proposing to cut the budget of the Ministry of Economy and give more money to the Ministry of the APC. So please place number seven on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u89	Are you going to insist on all your work?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u91	I'll bet number seven on it. Please identify and vote. 7 rows. [[17:16:58]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 8 Amendments, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u92	Amendment number 8. Dear colleagues, during independence, how many new state agrarian enterprises have been created? Probably nothing. Luhansk, which was famous for its lands, horse factories, was completely looted. The head of the Hayday District Military and Civil Administration has done nothing to support the agrarians over the past year and a half. His actions are designed solely to gain his own interests and to burn Luhansk. Thank you. And I'd like you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u93	I'll bet you 8 votes. The committee is not supported. Please make up your mind and vote. [[17:17:52]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 12 revisions, Reverend. Ten-counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! We supported the re-establishment of a separate Ministry of Agrarian Policy. The small budget of the Ministry will not be able to work fully and effectively to ensure the food security of our country, which is currently the priority of defence, medicine and food. So I encourage you to support this amendment and give a bigger budget to the APC. The bill proposes to increase the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine to improve the level of food security of our country, which is extremely important in the spread of coronary infection. Therefore, please put to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u95	I'll bet you number 12. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[17:18:56]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 13th Amendment, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! At this difficult time of increasing the budget of the Ministry’s office is a necessary component of the ministry’s work. At the same time, we need to consider how to reduce other substantial expenses. Why is the head of the Luhansk region military and civil administration, Hayday, getting the highest salary among all the district police officers. The Luhansk area cut by the line of action is the majority of the population in the area outside the poverty line, so maybe we should cut costs and transfer funds to important things to people. The bill proposes to increase the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine to improve the level of food security of our country, which is extremely important in the spread of coronary infection. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u97	I'll bet you 13 percent. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:20:06]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 18. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u98	17. Amendment number 17. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is important to invest public funds in scientific activities, innovation in the agricultural sector. Why was Ukraine formerly celebrated by prominent scientists, and now bright heads are forced to go abroad to seek a better destiny? Please support increased funding of scientific activities in the agricultural complex of Ukraine. Please place this amendment on the vote to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u99	I'll bet you 17 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:20:59]] For-50 The decision is not taken. That's 18 percent. Chess. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! Agricultural producers need more government financial support. In the head of Lugansk, the salary is 180,000 dollars. We all remember that last year, because of drought, farmers, unable to extinguish loans, ended their lives with suicides. State grants are not just support for agrarians, they are investments in the future of the state. So I'm asking you to support number 18 for the purpose of promoting farming. It is proposed to increase financial support for domestic farmers. Please put an order to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u101	I'll bet 18 votes. Please identify and vote. [[17:22:00]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Two more revisions. He's a great man. 19th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! Of course, it's worth raising the budget of the Ministry of the APC. But it is also important to control every penny. For example, in the Luhansk region, whose budget is constantly increasing, there is no improvement in the lives of the population. There are no new jobs, no new infrastructures. All the funds are placed in the pockets of the heads of ODA Hayday and are not used for purpose. Please support number 19. For a more systematic activity of a new enterprise, it is proposed to increase funding for the organization and regulation of the agribusiness system. Thank you for your attention. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u103	I'll bet you 19 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:23:02]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Ivchenko, 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u104	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, let's finally do what we promised the farmers, let's create the Ministry of Agarinian Politics. I thank, by the way, the committee that supported the amendment that in a month's time the government has to transfer the premises of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy back to MinAPK, Krestletick, 24. That's the main thing. And this is about increasing the farm fund, and when they open up the land market, they need money. I made a switch from one program to another, and I ask all farmers to support only a penny to make this fund work and extend long-term interest-free loans to farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u105	I'll bet you 25 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:24:23]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Shall we go to the vote for the law? 10 clearances for confirmation. Lada, Lada Bulah. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u106	Friends, you know, our song is beautiful and new, and I'm starting it again. Why did the Law on the Ministry of Agropolitics come up with 10 orders to simply give 140 million eye institutions outside of any competition, outside the National Health Service, beyond existing procedures that are democratic and level for all clinics and any medical institutions. Compare just that amount. In 140 million we can treat hepatitis C for a year in all patients over the year. For two years, we can treat tuberculosis in all TB patients in Ukraine for two years. And for some reason, someone decided to donate this amount to the Eye Institute without arguments, in a public health committee from which they did not even accept any recommendations or recommendations. Please don’t use the red button to support just the lobbying of the head doctor, who with the minister of health has his fellow MPs. I'd like you to beat this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u107	I'll give the floor to the committee. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. And prepare for the vote. Lesa Valentine's Day, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u108	Thank you. Yes, the amendment was actually made by author Krulk Ivanovitch to provide financial support for the activities of the Eye Microsurgery Center. It was properly taken into account with the appropriate refinement of the summation. Well, actually, the explanation was that the Eye Microsurgery Center is in critical condition right now, and it needs financial support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Amendment number 10. She was supported by a committee. It was counted. I'm betting on her confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:26:57]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Please prepare to vote for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 4 of the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on ensuring the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine (Registration No. 5197-2). Please support and vote. [[17:27:51]] For 275 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the registration mechanism (registration number 3774). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:28:29]] For 239. Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Fries Igor Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u110	Congratulations, fellows! Congratulations, Mr. Head! You know, my way in this room two years ago almost started with Bill 1056-1. This is the first so - called anti-rerader bill that has quite succeeded in lying down on an active field of legislation and correcting a lot of things. But unfortunately, at the time, we, the authors of this bill, were quite young deputies and the support of our word was not very strong, and we were not able to resolve or, let's say, push forward those ideas and novels with which we came. And to this day, what we couldn't do then is even happening to our colleagues who are in this room. It is not uncommon when even national MPs ask questions about when raiders seize the property of their constituents, their families, or even their own property. And this is a matter of emergency regulation on the part of the people's deputies. Our actions, unlike those of the raiders, must be very sharp and irreversible. What do we propose in Bill 3774? It's a so-called "anti-rider-2", which is developed jointly with the Ministry of Justice, the Office of Combating Registration, the People's Deputies, the Notary Chamber of Ukraine, which directly commits actions related to the state registration of the rights to real estate and the rights to society. The Novelles are very interesting. Listen, maybe someone will be interested in what we want to change. First. We want to introduce the practice of informing the owner of the company about the registration action that took place with its assets. To this day, as you know, everything is recognized by the postfactum. When you've been stolen, you'll find out later. We want to make it online so the owners know what's going on with their property, either with their company's director, or with their corporate rights. The draft law changes or repeals a highly implemented raider scheme by changing the business director on the basis of a certified notarial protocol of the general congregations, which only bears the signatures of the head and the secretary of the congregations. We want to make sure that the signature of all those in the congregations who have a qualified majority and have the opportunity to make a decision. We want to change the issue of agrarian owners. To date, the director of an agrarian company, without the owner’s decision, can break the contract for the use of agricultural land. We want to avoid such decisions. that such a covenant would be a significant covenant, so that such decisions would require the decisions of the general congregations of such association. We want to change the prosecution procedure: facilitate the complainant's access to complaints about decisions taken in the state registration procedure. The various copies, the evidence, the rules of the law that are broken, the references to the relevant decisions of the court -- that's not gonna be necessary. We will speed up the review of State registration complaints. An additional novelty, a very interesting novelty, is that we want to change the state registration of FOPs online. Today, on the committee, we have considered this bill and, taking into account the proposals made by the National Deputies of the Committee and the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee proposes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving the mechanism of resistance to raiding (No. 3774) (since 2 July 20) submitted by the National MP Yanchenko and other National Deputies. The results of the first reading are based on the committee’s proposals. Colleagues, we can actually do very good things today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u111	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. We are sure to do so. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please sign two in, two in, two in. Deputy Vatras Volodymyr Antonovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u112	Please pass the word to Lord Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u113	Unsullied, please. Rudged.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u114	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiyovich, your distinguished colleagues. Colleagues, it's a very necessary bill, it's important and it's true for everyone. We have to protect the owners, we have to protect the landowners. We need to protect those who hold on to the welfare of Ukraine, so that those who choose to work on earth with their life’s fleet will feel our support, and that will give them confidence in tomorrow. This will give them additional strength. We need to create serious safeguards for fraudsters, bandits, different scales and colors to prevent them from stealing, looting property that they don't own. To make sure that this is not the case in the Dnipropetrov region from which I recently arrived when the former eighth - vocation MP created an entire group, which included both notary and registrars, and aunts, they are robbing entire farm enterprises both in Novomosk and in the Fifth. They pillage the earth, terrorize people throughout the region, both in the apostles and in Sofia, and in the Fifth and throughout the region. The facts show that this is happening throughout Ukraine. We all know that as an MP. We have to respond to this challenge of criminals and not allow them to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. Bill 3774 is exactly what will help us achieve these goals and the task that my colleague and I have told you about. So by uniting our efforts and supporting this bill of 3774, we support those who work on earth, who work with the land, who are the creators of our welfare, and so I ask you to support this bill, your honourable colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u115	Thank you. The National Deputy of Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, "Trust" Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u116	Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Trust Group. I give the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u117	Larissa Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, Larissa Bilozer, Deputy Group "Trust", Winnitzkin. In fact, this bill 3774 is one of the anti-residering bills that our temporary special commission on investor rights has been working on together with experts from the Ministry of Justice and the Office of Audition. He does have safety nets that will prevent the illegal capture of businesses that are not unique. And it's not a secret that in Ukraine these cases happen very often, and even in our TSC, we've looked at them more than once. Of course, there has been some positive developments over the past year, but the problems, indeed, remain, especially in the area of government registration of immovable property. There are isolated cases of counterfeiting of documents that are the basis for the registration process. Unlawful registrations remain on the basis of court decisions. All of this is really unacceptable for the days leading up to the opening of the earth’s market and requires real harmony in order to ensure that all of this is transparent and that citizens are protected from illegal action on their property. There are warnings, of course. There's a question here about wanting to automate the state registration procedures. I understand, on the one hand, that the proposed novels are called upon to reduce the possibility of abuse in this area. And on the other hand, we know today that a lot of the registers, they have technical problems at work, they don't interact. And that's what happened when the only recorders and information systems work only on paper. So this imperative norm is a bit disturbing. But, indeed, Parliament needs to support such bills as 3774 and the trust MPs will support this bill and ask colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u119	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovic the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u120	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u121	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I remember very well when these two anti-riding laws were passed at the beginning of this call. And how pompous of a big rostrum was to say that we finally found a panacea and ended the raiding in Ukraine and that it hadn't happened for the last 20 years, and we'll show you how to do it and you'll see the result in the near future. Unfortunately, the result is sad because the raiders, they're obviously going to be. And they'll always try to find crevices in the legislation, including when considering the bill between first and second reading, and they'll always have their lobbyists who will necessarily "open up a little bit" in order to then "screw the whole body." Of course, we support the changes that are being made now because they are truly, as life has shown, urgent. And part of the appropriate need for the Ministry of Justice not to "fleet" by formal signs of complaint, when a person there improperly indicated that his rights were violated and so on, and they're going to "football" those kinds of appeals. Let everyone consider and let them make their own decisions, even if a person does not have a sufficient level of legal literacy and has not been able to properly formulate his or her case. Similarly, let all other registrations cease if a case is being examined. It's not that the case is being considered, but at the same time, at the same time, a huge number of other changes are being made by the raider type and the eyes are closing. Similarly, we support the idea of informing all the members of the general assembly, not just the chairman and the secretary, because this mass character has been acquired, as in the FOP part, of course, we will support this bill and we will vote in the first reading, taking into account the committee's decision, because, indeed, there was a rather constructive discussion on the committee. I thank the members of the committee and the committee's leadership that the committee's conclusion on all the proposals that have been discussed contains and, hopefully, the first reading of this kind of change will be made. Further in our second reading, each of us has his own work, and we will improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u123	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u124	Pass it on, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u125	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u126	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine. The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. We certainly understand that there are positive innovations that need to be supported, which are primarily related to the work of the college in handling complaints in the area of state registration, which operates in the Ministry of Justice. Although we must be honest to say that the existence of such a college is directly linked to the fact that we have a system of justice. And instead of going to court, even though this is legal, people are forced, first and foremost, to go to this college, that's what they call the anti-residence college. At the same time, we, as Marjorie national deputies, have received repeated references from our citizens, that the very problem of the college itself. And Mrs. Olga, as the deputy minister who is here with us today, we ask you to intervene in the work of the college. There are black notaries, even a registered petition in the name of the President, to check the possible involvement of the Justice Minister of Tiny in the activity of black notaries. And when you insisted on the committee that there should be a law, so-called, red button, when you make your decision, Minust, you can block any property right. I want to thank all the members of the committee who have not allowed this to happen and excluded this norm, and we can, thanks to the national MPs, tell people that at least on the first reading, we will have the rule of law that should exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u127	It's a motivator. Yvchenko. Then the Iron Man with motive. Then we go to the vote. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u128	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, let's support the work of a temporary special committee of our colleagues Yanchenko and Nikolaynka. I remember that in 2015 we passed anti-rerader law, and what? Do you think the raid stopped? When we open the Opendatabot portal directly, we see a 20 percent increase in raids every year. Ask Minust 3.5 thousand of these complaints, more than 2.5 thousand of them who are in violation, are just individuals and 700 are legal persons directly. Colleagues, this is a big problem for today. I remember when a farmer came to Boryspiel because he did not find protection from the militia’s raid, and we tried to find protection for the farm. Colleagues, two years of trial. Two years later, he returned the farm, only the leased land he had now not 8,500, but 2,500. This is the Curve Rig of the 17th year. Let's keep this up, that's another step.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u129	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u130	Dear colleagues! We usually support this bill from Voice. When Ukraine has a 109-seat property rights rating, between such wonderful countries of Uganda and Algeria. That's bad. When we registered 606 criminal registration cases in 2020, this is also an indicator of the level of very poor investment climate. When we have an anti-rerider commission of the Ministry of Justice looking at 2019 through 2020 -- 2 000 741 complaints, when 8 million people disappear in a year, and then suddenly the court doesn't see this raid, that's the problem. So, dear colleagues, we need to support this bill. But what I want to remind you is that one of the huge problems of registration that this bill doesn't solve is the judicial system that has made nine decisions to ban physical capture. And we need to speed up judicial reform along with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u131	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals for a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the registration mechanism (registration number 3774). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:45:59]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you. Shorten lines? I'll bet you a vote. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of Law 3774. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:46:40]] For 259. Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the granting of benefits to individual categories of Ukrainian citizens seeking consular action (registration number 4539). It is suggested that we consider this issue in a nutshell. Can we not discuss this?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u132	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the granting of benefits to individual categories of Ukrainian citizens seeking consular action (register No. 4539). Please support and vote. That's what we're voting for. [[17:47:36]] For 305 Decision taken. I bet. I know, thanks. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the reduction of half the time limits for the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 4539). Please support and vote. [[17:48:14]] For 257 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the certification of the transmission system operator (registration number 3364-1-d). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Puppy? How many bars? Alexei Yuriovich! Please turn on Kucherenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u133	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have 12 lines. I need to speak for five minutes, and then I won't insist on performing. I'll try to cut it down. How's it going?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u134	Let's do three, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u135	Three is definitely not. Sorry, we're not at the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u136	Four. Give me four minutes. Please include Alexia Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u137	Dear friends! Dear Ukrainians! That bill that we're about to vote on, and I want to say that the Fatherland faction will support it, because it's very important, on the one hand, because it really leads us to Euro-integration, the integration of our energy system with Europe. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you all to listen, because then you'll come to the districts and tell stories about tariffs how to lower, how to lower. Thank you, sorry for the emotion. So what I want to explain is that the condition of certification of our operator, Ukrenergo, is not only the issuance of this document, but the main thing is to ensure and convince our European partners that it will be a stable company that will work in a single energy system. Tell me, please, how do you want to make a stable energy company that showed up last year, under your authority, I emphasize, 27.5 billion dollars of damage. How do you want to show it? I'm not talking about the damage to Centrenerego, the damage to Energoatum 4.7 billion, the damage to 30 billion state-owned buyer. And now the second question to you and to you, Mr. Herus. Please tell us, we really all want to lower the electricity tariffs for the population and that's the right thing to do. But at the same time, corrupt companies are generating. Where's the money coming from, Mr. Herus? You know, the analysis shows that on one device, thanks to the market rules that are being broken down by the National Energy Regulatory Commission, they've made tens of millions of dollars. What's with the equipment? They bought hundreds of millions of kilowatts of hours at the Chinese TEC at the price of a bracelet of 25 and reselled the State-owned Crusled Company at the price of a bracelet of 65 to 30 percent, and tens of millions of dollars were made by intermediaries. So this is where the money goes, you know, Mr. Herus and the respectable colleagues. Here's where to look for a reserve, to really cut prices and tariffs on electricity. Is someone "crushing" this market? And this is the National Energy and Utilities Commission acting in accordance with the law that Mr. Herus passed, and unfortunately, you have voted with respect to your colleagues. We have six members there. Four of them were appointed President of Ukraine by the Order for two months, but they suddenly became permanent. What did they do two weeks ago? And they gave themselves a bonus of 1.5 million dollars in the first quarter. What was their income in the past year? Two million dollars on average. What are these incomes paid for, respected Ukrainians? You're with us, you understand? You and I have paid for this worthless regulation. So I'm paying your attention, colleagues, not just Mr. Herus, unless there's order in the regulation of the energy market, in the supervisory boards, and I'm referring to your weight that Turkish subject Shewki Adjuner is the head of the supervisory boards of the two companies, Ukrenergo and the Crucifixion, which are prohibited by law. So if you don't put the basic order in place, no energy integration is going to be done even with certification. And don't manipulate the future with concepts, enough fooling people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u138	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the certification of the transmission system operator (registration number 3364-1-d). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[17:54:22]] For 296 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (for the improvement of certain aspects of declaration) (registration number 5173). It is suggested that a decision be made and that the bill be included in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:55:03]] For 294 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. We still have a lot of questions. Let's not discuss it. This one's out of the question. Next. You see, there are still many questions to be considered. Thank you, Your Honor. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the draft law on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the improvement of certain aspects of declaration (registration No. 5173). Please support and vote. [[17:56:06]] For-300 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal, in part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to cut the deadlines by half and make proposals and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5173). Please support and vote. [[17:56:44]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next issue is the second reading, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the development of the institution of old age (registration number 4535). Who's going to insist on editing? Please welcome to the rostrum the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich. First the check-ins, then the confirmations. Would you please tell me who's going to insist? Can we get some paperwork in writing so we don't have to waste time? Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich. Please give it in writing. List, please, your rights, you know them. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, are you insisting on law enforcement? List, please. Call the number of the edit. And how much do you ask? Every one?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u139	Yeah, I'd like to say it every single time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u140	Please, the number of the edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u141	35th, it's partially accounted for, I'd like it. Colleagues, 35 lashes. What does it say? We now appoint an old age without public discussion, without the participation of the inhabitants. The second reading is already settled, and there is a very long and complicated procedure. I propose to shorten it and to make it clear that these public debates should go through public hearings and public consultations. So let's simplify and make it clear: this is a 35. Please support her in the form that I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u142	I'm betting on the 35th Mikishi vote. The committee is not supported. Please. I'm betting on the author's proposal to take full account of amendment number 35. It's part of the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:59:17]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Regrettably, the amendment remains partially taken into account. Next line, Dmitri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u143	Next line is number 39. What does it say? It's about the fact that the head of the community is now running for office to look into the local council. But even though he's going through a "sito" discussion, he may not take public opinion into account and offer his candidacy. I propose that if the council rejects this candidacy, the next candidature of the mayor is already proposed by most of the deputies of this local council. I'm very much appealed to the fact that it's affecting the process. No, for in the Law on Local Self - Rule, a council secretary is also appointed. And as you can see, all communities have a secretary. So this is a little bit of manipulation. Please support this amendment and allow most of the members of the local council to put forward their candidacy if they have not supported the candidacy put forward by the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u144	I'll bet you 39 votes. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:00:49]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Mikisha. The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u145	It's under 108. We exclude article 79 from the law. 1, which clearly regulates, on what grounds do we release the mayor. And so that this doesn't turn into political persecution, I propose that I release the mayor under the same procedure that we're assigning, that is, through the "sito" of public discussion. Because it might turn out that the mayor is actually working for his mayoral district and the residents are supporting him. So I ask that I also support this exercise and that the mayor also be released after public discussions, public consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u146	Amendment 108 is rejected by the Committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:01:59]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Final order, Dmitri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u147	Amendment 129. So what am I offering? See, we now have conflicts throughout Ukraine, for many of the elderly have been appointed without the consent of the inhabitants. With this amendment, I propose to release all the old men who have already been appointed. I'm making a point. The elderly, who really support this and the residents of the relevant mayoral district, and the deputies of the local councils without problems, will be reassigned, and those who disagree with the inhabitants will be released and will find it very difficult to get back to. Heading and being an elder in the appropriate mayoral district. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u148	Edit 129 Mikishi. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:03:09]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. 3 minutes, please turn on for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u149	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! In fact, this bill was designed as a real solution to the issue of local self - government. But that was not what was supposed to happen. To the second reading, who would not say or make any adjustments, one very important thing came up. From the beginning, the ancient history of Ukraine referred to the choice of the mayor in the village. By the way, there was one exception during World War II -- then he appointed a commander. Now, according to the logic of this bill, the appointment of the mayor will be the head of the OTG, and he, the mayor appointed, may or may not be a member of the executive, or may not be, the head of the united territorial community. This is a very serious risk that breaks the entire structure of decentralization and local self - government. There will be villages where there will really be no old age, it will be from the neighboring village. In a strange way, articles about local self - government, such as the amendment of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, came to second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, there must have been some sort of mix-up. As far as the Institute of Age is concerned. By the way, in the first elections of the united territorial communities, the mayor was elected, and this, you know, was something that the territorial communities wanted to voluntarily unite. Now it's all gone wrong. Now, the mayor doesn't have, even if he's assigned, he doesn't have any representative mandate in the mayoral district, it just stays on paper. The candidate for seniority for discussion by the citizens of the community is not being nominated at all. I mean, once again, the mayor could be from a nearby village, and no one knows him. In order to be represented for the public discussion of the candidature of seniority, its organizers need to establish the number of persons in the mayoral district and the total number of persons eligible for voting. So once again, dear colleagues, this bill needs to be taken immediately, returned to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u150	Next. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko – 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u151	Now I want to address the entire Supreme Council: dear friends, you remember when President Greensky was running for presidents and when he was preparing his program, he was talking about the main part of his program being the people of the country. People's government, including self-government, is when people have the right to choose their own power in the community. I can say that during the occupation, during World War II old age was appointed and now they want to do the same. During the Communist regime, the village chose the council and the council appointed the mayor, that is, the head. During an independent Ukraine, the village chose both the council and its village head, and it was self - rule. So I want to ask you why the President and his team, who went under the terms of government, self-governance, decentralization, why do they want, as they do during the occupation, to deprive the villagers of their advice, of their silage, of their head, of their influence on their lives. The worse the villagers are, I want to ask them, and how during the occupation they want the mayor to be appointed and looked at by peasants who have been deprived of all rights. I want to ask you, is that what your editorial is called self-governance, and that's what the people of the world call today? Is it practical in the village to deprive people of their right to choose their power and then to clean up the village altogether? I cannot understand the direction of your people and the direction of your reforms. When you sell out the land, you gather not to improve the state of health but to sell strategic property and adopt lobby laws. And now you're asking the next session, not how to protect Ukraine during the crackdown on external aggression, but how to deprive the villagers of their right to choose their own power, that is, to take away self-government. I call on everyone who has a single drop of conscience to vote against this law, because it's impossible to readjust it because it's a wrong concept, the peasants are wrong. And so we have to say no to this law and adopt another, where peasants can choose their own counsel and their own head, just like in the city. And don't make double standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u152	Dirdin, 64.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u153	Thank you. Colleagues, this is very important because we don't have the right to impose restrictions on the population in villages where people are going to be less than 500 people, because without this village being represented in local self-government, it's going to be a violation of these people's rights. And I support those colleagues who say we don't have the right to limit it, because it's just going to be a banal discrediting of these people and representing their right to vote there won't be any place. And that's why I'm asking you to support this amendment, because Kiev doesn't know what's going on in places, in small villages, they don't know. I'm asking you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u154	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u155	Colleagues, Maxime, Maxim Dirdin, to you. See, the position of the committee is that the function of the old age as it changes. If you carefully read the text proposed for second reading, it is a professionalization of the position. In particular, the rights of our colleague, Korneyenka, include their status, the services of local self - government agencies, including the increase in wages. If we are lowering this threshold now, we are also increasing the pressures on the budgets of local communities. As far as election is concerned, there are election positions, like the head of the community and the deputies, which represent the territory. If we want rural areas to get better representation, change to the Electoral Code and raise the threshold of partisanism, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u156	It's good to meet you. That's why I'm betting on vote 64. Please identify and vote. [[18:12:04]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next line, Black Dmitri Sergiyovich, 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, number 36. The amendment proposes that no less than half of the members of the relevant council be granted the right to apply for the appointment of seniority in the event of a rejection by the relevant council of the post of seniority proposed by the relevant rural council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u158	Stop, please. I'm sorry, there's 36 revisions, it's not your job, it's not your job, it's your job, it's your colleagues. Let's study them and then we'll talk. 36 revisions, Lozinski, Vasilchenko, and Pippa. Please. Let's move on. Yvchenko four readouts, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u159	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, here's what's going on. In 2015, all taxes on villages, villages and towns of district value are collected by all basic taxes. In fact, they are transferred to the district centers and transferred to large cities, calling it decentralization, and for five years they have not developed rural areas or areas of the district centers. There is a gradual folding in a context where no costs are spent on settlement network infrastructure. What happens next? The local communities are then united, perhaps a good process, and 60 percent of basic taxes are returned to all communities. But there are services in these communities and people will be closer to the population. Well, wasn't it right to make an elder chosen by men? Why are you turning an organ of local self-government into a CHEK, a CHEK, where the head of whom he wants is assigned? Whether it's a populated site or another, or a city, or, if you'll excuse me, some other area, from another area. Why are you turning to. Most will always dominate the minority. And the head of this, when he comes from a large populated point, he will appoint as the leader of the Jack and release such a person quite quickly. Step right up, please. And rightly said a colleague from Kharkiv County, there must be a procedure when the mayor is appointed, and better shaved, and as he is released, not just by one person's village head, but still it must be a procedure and public discussion, and this person should be brought closer to the right area. So, colleagues, "The Fatherland" won't normally vote, because it's also the collapse of the settlement network, and of course it's not decentralization and the approach to services. Fatherland won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u160	Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment number 13. Give it to me in paper. Please, Puziczuk, I asked you to give me your corrections. Lozinski, number 13. Are we going to unify them somehow? Are you going to insist on everyone? 13 Amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, I'm going to insist on everyone, because unfortunately, instead of the days of local self-government, we have evenings in Parliament, evenings at extracurricular meetings, instead of being involved in the development of local self-government. And today this Parliament can make a very big mistake. I urge everyone, first of all, a fellow "minister of the people," not to make this mistake. What are we talking about? It's about the institution of old age, about the institution of one of the most important in our country, about people closest to our citizens, about people who have to increase access to services, about people who have to communicate all the problems that are in the areas of the most remote villages and towns. Instead, what are we being offered today? We are offered an assignment from the mountain. And this amendment, Amendment 13, gives you the first step, the participation of citizens in defining the mayoral districts. I ask you to support the participation of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u162	I'm betting on the vote number 13. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:17:01]] For-93 The decision is not taken. 18 Amendments, Lausinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u163	Colleagues, we're going to continue and we're not going to save time here because we have to talk about people, not the economy of time, and the auctions for how many minutes to take the floor. And because, my friends, I have this old-age worker here in my hands, which is 2016. And in this guidebook, it says that in 2016, the system of local self-government, I quote, "seems to be more eloquent." Dear colleagues, you and I are implementing decentralization here. The deputies of the previous vocations, the deputies of this vocation and the Voice faction voted in favour of the majority of the bills that applied to local self-government, despite our being an opposition faction. But today we just can't keep our mouths shut, and amendment number 13, 18 says that the mayor should remain in the system of local self-government, the mayor can't be removed from this system, the organs of local self-government, don't make these mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u164	Amendment 18 of Lozinski, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:18:33]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Thirty-six lashes, Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u165	And now, dear fellows, we are moving on to the most important, we are returning to the councillor of old, where there is the logo of the Ministry of Regional Policy, the esteemed colleagues. Not the logo of some individual, but of the entire ministry. And what does it say here, Mayor, who is he? Chosen for the term of office of the council, the leader to whom the community indicated trust in the direct elections. Dear colleagues, you've read this bill, you've seen direct elections there, you've seen the election of the old man, or you want these old men to be acrobats, you've put them on spaghetti, where, on the one hand, they should be in line with the interests of their mayoral districts, and on the other hand, who's serving them? That's right, the head of the community. Who approves them? That's right, to vote for this council. What about those who did not vote in favour of these deputies? What should be done to citizens who did not vote in favour of this head? This key amendment, I ask you to support the choice of old age.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u166	I'll bet you 36 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:20:01]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 43rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, we're on the move. Unfortunately, this is not about choice, but I'm going to go back to choice, because it's the most important part of this bill. But going back to the Rules, 43 amendments is an amendment that refers to the determination of the results of public discussions. So what I want to tell you is we're still going to fight in this election room today. And the fact that the previous amendment only got 100 votes is a big mistake. And I encourage a colleague from the People's Servant to open a comparative table, to open these bills, not to sit in their smartphones, not to sit in their boards, but to focus on community issues. If we're talking about 43 amendments, it's about public discussion, and if you're already prescribing public discussion, even at the time of the appointment of old age. Then make them real, not funky. Make it possible for citizens to influence matters in their communities, in their primary districts. Please return those powers to the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u168	No. 43. Partially counted. I'm putting her on full count. Full count, right? If it doesn't get 226, it's going to be completely rejected. Okay. I bet. Please identify and vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[18:21:46]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Edit completely rejected. Next line 51. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u169	My amendment also applies to the choice of old age. As a mayor's deputy, I get more and more from community representatives, and very often in their villages are appointed by the elders of people who have nothing to do with their village. In what way, then, will they represent the interests of their village? I very much ask you, let's not ruin the very essence of decentralization reform and allow the communities to present their interests through old age. And that's what we need to leave the choice of old age. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u170	I'm betting on a vote of 51 Vasilchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:23:04]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 122 revisions, Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u171	Dear colleagues, we must once again move in order. Sadly, this amendment disrupts the importance of choice. But according to the Rules, we return to the consideration of a specific 122 amendments. This amendment applies, my fellow Members, and I urge you to pay attention to this amendment, and to this amendment, the basis for the liberation of old age. What do they want to do with this bill? They want to appoint those to whom they can benefit. Those people are comfortable. Those who will do simple tasks. And they're not even going to be an acrobat anymore, but they're going to be postmen who are going to take a list of tasks to the head of the community. They're going to these high-ranking districts. And they will carry out their tasks. And what do you think is going to happen if this mayor doesn't do his job? And I'll tell you, dear colleagues, he will be released. Because the reasons for exemption provided for in article 122 are unacceptable. I urge you not to make old age a puppet of the head and the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u172	I'll bet you 122 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[6:24:36]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 141 revisions, Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u173	Dear colleagues, despite the limitations of the Lokdown, we and the national MPs, and the mayors and the writers, do all the work with the electorate for weeks in the community. And I'll tell you what I brought from the communities of Lvivščina, Czervogrod, Zovkvi, Stry and other communities. They tell me stories about best friends, weddings, brothers, "parasuthists" who have nothing to do with their old districts. And they ask me, "Roman, what can we do if we have a mayor and this mayor doesn't even know the streets, he doesn't know the boundaries, he doesn't even know what was going on (and this is important), and what is going on in our district? What do you do when a parachutist is sent away and he wants to build a career and the loss of water in that part of the community will be a disaster for people?" Ladies and gentlemen, I call for reelection and this election amendment is back.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u174	I'll bet you 141 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:26:06]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 142 revisions, Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I see the hour is late. I see you're tired. I know that everyone has plans for this evening, perhaps for someone and for the night. But I urge everyone to go back to work, I urge everyone to go back to the question of choice of old age, and this amendment once again, once again, changes the shameful attempts to make old age a puppet of individual clan interests, individual feudal groups. And I want to go back to the strategies that were developed by the Ministry of Regional Development. And I want to quote these strategies: "The old are on the first flanks of this responsibility, they're closer to people than any of the local councils.".. And I want to address every national MP today, don't send these seniors out of this advanced job for local self-government. Do not send them in the back, but in rooms, in the bathrooms, and in subsoils of arrangements. Let's go back to choice, and then the old age will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u176	I'll bet you 142 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:27:34]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 143.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u177	Dear colleagues, I can't help but turn to you, there's not much left, there's no need to get annoyed, there's a bill to be taken into account. We need to take a comparative table and see that it has no relation to the interests of the communities, and you will see that this is a discreditation of decentralization reform. And you'll understand as soon as you get the text of the bill, that without election age, we're going to have a collapse of local self-government. We'll have the current representation of feudal interests back. Again, I can't go back to the Ministry of Regional Development's work when in their texts the words of the truth are, "The village is ruled by real things, not sweet promises." Therefore, the mayor should not simply be a respected person, but he has a professional personality. Where did you see the professionals who will be turned by paratroopers into the old districts that they didn't know existed last month, please tell me? There is no answer to that question, please return the choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u178	I'll bet you 143 votes, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:29:06]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 144 revisions, Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u179	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. I'll remind you what kind of amendment we're talking about, we're talking about old age and choice. I'm going to tell you one more thing that maybe you'll finally pay attention to. When people with torches, with pitchforks, come out to your district public administrations, with what they have in hand, when these people show you the name of the person they appoint as an old man there, when these people show what this person has done, what his past, what his experience, and what his record is, you will only understand. But, dear fellows, it will be too late. So I urge you to go back to the question of choice, the question that the Voice faction does not initiate, is initiated by the Minister of Regional Development of 2016, the 18th year that we talked about with our international partners, the whole world is working on this model. And my colleagues at the Fatherland faction correctly noticed that during the Fascist occupation, they were assigned why now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u180	144 revisions, Lozinski. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:30:33]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 145 revisions, Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u181	Dear colleagues, do you know what it would be right to do? I see that voting rights are in no way in the interest of the communities, and now it would be right to put a stop to this bill, the honourable colleagues, and everyone to go to some community. Mayors' deputies to their districts, listers' deputies in those areas where you have direct contact with the communities, and ask them to look into the eyes of not the heads of the communities. And here, to the honor of Mr. Vitaliy Bezgin, who is now discussing with the head of Parliament, I would like to address Vitali Bezgin. To honor the head of the subcommittee, we had different lobbying standards. Some standards wanted the heads of the community to be appointed even without a council meeting, without a decision for the sake of old age. After all, this lobbyism was reflected, but unfortunately, the biggest lobbyism was not reflected -- the lobbyism of individual groups that want to keep all communities under control through the mayoral districts. Please think about this before returning to your communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u182	I'll bet you 145 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:32:05]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. And the extreme of Lozinski, 146th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u183	I see the joy here of individual colleagues from the majority that it's an extreme readjustment. But I would advise you not to relax, and I would recommend that you take the text of the bill into your hands. There are other colleagues with other amendments who will not allow this terrible lobbyism here today, which takes election into old age, which takes away people's ability to take a direct part in local self-government, which is contrary to all the significant and defining norms that are set out in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which are fixed, forgive me in such a word, in common sense. I just want to turn back the last 20 seconds, colleagues, your attention. If the mayor is to represent the interests of the mayor’s district, someone should choose him. So where does this elder come from? If he emerges from the offices of individual feudal interests, he will certainly not represent the ancient district. Let's get the choice back.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u184	I'm betting on a vote of 146 Lozinskis. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:33:35]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The following changes. Scram. 37th. Let's just give it a minute and vote for the revisions, shall we? Alona Ivanovna! 37th, 58th and 54th. A minute, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u185	I ask you to vote 37 separately, and then there will be a minute for everyone else, please. Look, colleagues, 37th, it's just a principle of correction, and we're here to completely associate ourselves with the Voice faction and all those who defend local self-government. Colleagues, you know, there's been a lot of mistakes in this room in professional local self-government and in government and government. More than a year ago, the majority voted on the Law on the so - called reinstatement of power, and then a year later we corrected it because we had not heard more than a year ago. More than a year and five months ago, I personally filed a bill on the service of local self - government. It's still not coming out. Now the working group was formed, not even in Parliament or in the committee, but in the central authority of the executive branch of the NDA. Likewise, I am deeply concerned that we will correct these errors later on about the choice of old age. But they will cost us dearly. Please support the choice of old age.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u186	I'll bet you 37 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:35:11]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 54 right, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u187	Thank you, colleagues. I understand you're not hearing our thoughts today. And I'm sure we'll be back in six months to correct these mistakes. You know, I'm opening the Ministry today, and I'm actually opening up a concept that was developed in 2015-16-17 by the Ministry of Regional Development itself. You can open it, too. Where they say that the mayor is to be chosen in villages and villages, a united community. And this must be the leader that the village community has expressed its trust in direct elections. That's what most of my amendments, the Fatherland and the Voice faction have been made. Sadly, they are all rejected. Today, the mayor is offered a position that will not be chosen, nor will he represent the real inhabitants of the village or of the united territorial community. And believe this mistake we will correct in the future. Unfortunately, the collapse of professional government is now the biggest problem for our country in times of war, during the pandemic. Well, believe it or not, we'll be back. And since I don't have votes and understanding today, I'm taking off all my other amendments. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u188	And we can put two amendments to the vote, right? 54 redundancies. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:36:44]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Fifty-eight. Please identify and vote. [[18:37:01]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Black, 38 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number 38 says that if the candidate offered by the city or village head for the post of seniority has not passed, we grant the right to make such nominations directly to the deputies as is the case with the secretaries of the respective councils. And it's a public discussion. So when we speak of the peoples of the land, it will help us to do so. Please support regulation 38 and the law as a whole also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u190	I'm betting on the vote number 38 black. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:38:12]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puziczuk, number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u191	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Before the first reading, the bill envisaged amendments to two laws: the Local Self-Government Act and the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Definition of Areas and Administrative Centres of Territorial Communities. Contrary to article 116 of the Rules, which prohibits the amendment of the original law, the bill has been spied on by various rules, including amendments to the Constitutional Court Act. Changes to which the Committee on Legal Policy should consider at all. What does the Constitutional Court say about old age? What is this nonsense, explain? And if. Now, colleagues, first of all, please support my amendment. The second is not to support this bill. Thirdly, if this bill is adopted, we will be introducing the "Paternity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u192	The committee's position is about to be expressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u193	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. You've been talking about how much you've been doing, and I'm just going to read your amendment, which you've just been commenting on. Which directly proposes to change the title of the bill and replace the words "some laws of Ukraine" with the words "the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine." All of it. That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u194	I'm putting this number one rule on the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:40:10]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 4. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u195	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The Honourable Vitaly Yuriovich, the Rada Channel and our plenary are watching a very large number of citizens. As a national MP, would you please state whether the amendments to this bill are contrary to 116 articles of the Constitutional Court Act? Tell me, Is it true or not that you are violating article 116 of the Rules and introducing, in violation, a shameful norm? You're trying to change the Constitutional Court Act into one person. And if this bill is passed, the "Fatherland" faction will register a draft decree repealing this bill. Please support my amendment number 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u196	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:41:29]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 12. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u197	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Mr. Chairman, what you're giving the people's deputies a chance to do is thank you very much. But I had a specific question for a member of the profile committee. I demand that he confirm or refute my words regarding the violation of the Rules, which was violated by 116 articles of the Rules, and the law has been introduced to this bill, amending the Constitutional Court Act. As far as the substance of this bill is concerned, the honourable citizens, this bill, it's no longer a bill about old age, it's a bill about overseers who are trying to appoint a majority today, and it has nothing to do with local self-government. I'd like you to listen to my question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u198	Dear colleagues, the vote is based on the 12th National Amendment. Look, one second, dear colleagues. Please don't raise your voice on me. I'm telling you again, according to the Rules, I'm going to give him an answer right now, but I'm very much asking, if I'm going to base the amendment, to talk about the amendment, or else I'm going to apply the right given by the Rules to make a note and then not to give the word, that is, part of the fifth article, part of the 38th article. Thank you. Please, Mr. Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u199	Thank you. Mr. Andrey, I'm going to address you. I'm going to divide the performance into two parts, the first one on your right. The fourth line of the previous line you insisted on is empty at all. 12 fines, it amends the Law on Voluntary Unity of Communities, which does not exactly apply to what you're talking about. Now, on the key issue, yes, we applied article 116 of the Rules. Therefore, your claims about the failure of some individuals to comply with the Rules have nothing to do with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u200	Amendment number 12, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:44:03]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 17 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u201	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. First. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I want to tell all of our viewers, Ukrainian citizens, that the Servants of the People have the right, you know, not even more specifically the right, but the practice not only of restricting the MPs in the speeches, but of restricting access to the hall, you have it and you can use it to me, that's the first. The other one. The Rules forbid, Reverend Vitalia Juryovich, this is for you, 116 articles of the Rules forbid changes not to the original law. And you make changes that were not voted on in the first reading and changes that were not mentioned in the committee’s conclusions in preparation for the first reading and that are unrelated. So please let us be honest and acknowledge your mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u202	I'll bet you vote number 17. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:45:34]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u203	Dmitri Alexanderovich, we still have to go there for our colleagues, for Ukrainian citizens, to find out one question that we've been trying to figure out a few times before, to hear the committee's response regarding the violation of the Rules. You should have stopped considering this bill, which was prepared for a second reading with a violation of the Rules. That's about my 34th amendment. It refers to public discussions on candidates for the post of old age. Full-fledged elections are replaced by public debate without any legal consequences. The results of this discussion will not mean anything. Where are the peoples? What kind of manipulation is that? What's all this crap? Vitaly Yuriovich, two questions. First: With regard to the violation of the Rules. And secondly, shushing with public debates that will have no consequences. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u204	Thirty-four. Please identify and vote. [[18:47:05]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 80 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u205	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to the board. You see a reflection of the results of the vote, as "servants" unanimously deprive you of the opportunity to choose an old age as they are deprived. You know, you're becoming illegal in your communities today. By lunchtime, a bill was being considered trying to take you out of the country. After lunch, a bill is being considered that deprives you of the opportunity to select a mayor. Tell me, Vitaly Juryovich, just explain to your colleagues and citizens, have the courage to be a representative of the committee to give you the answer your colleague is giving you. You represent the committee, and it is your duty to explain the position of the committee, not just the rejected amendment. Why Rejected? We have to understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u206	No. 80. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[6:48:33]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 90 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u207	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what happened yesterday on the committee of professional local self-government? Yesterday, a local self - government subcommittee was eliminated because there were other positions in this subcommittee that conflicted with the positions of authority. Think of how ready they are to destroy parliamentaryism in order to carry out such shameful bills. What are the rules of the Rules, what can be done today in this room? Never in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarians have they ever destroyed such local self-government, destroyed the administrative and territorial system, destroyed the Constitution, erased the leg of the Constitution. I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u208	I'm betting on the vote number 90. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:50:02]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 102.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u209	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, it is very sad to see when the majority of them today do not hear their colleagues representing the Ukrainian people in Parliament. When you ignore the question of a national MP, you ignore not only his but the electorate. You're ignoring Ukrainian citizens. And this has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. Modern Parliamentarianism. In what parliament of the world can such contempt be shown to Ukrainian citizens? Where can there be contempt for regulation? Where can you find such a violation? The reporter just left the rostrum and went on a little chat, a little joke. He doesn't care about your questions, citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u210	Committee editing is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:51:32]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next edit, extreme readout, 121, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u211	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to look at the order of things: when the whole country is in a tough red zone, they gather again in a row, as they did when they passed a disgraceful bill on the ground. They're putting this bill to the conclusion of the plenary day in order to contradict it, so that you, your fellow citizens, will be deprived of the possibility of choosing a mayor to have a vote in order for you to stand up for your position. Notice that there is no response to any of the opposition's amendments. You see what the "ministers of the people" do, and make the right conclusions. Please support my correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u212	Thank you. I'll bet you 121 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. [[18:53:08]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. As far as I can tell, there'll be one confirmation. Two revisions? Ten for confirmation? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. And then we're going to vote on the confirmation, and then we're going to vote on the law, right? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. What adjustments? Is there no right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u213	Dear colleagues, first. Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovitch, I would like to place number 3, but before that, I would like to say that according to the recommendations of Mr. Lášk's Chief Sanitary Doctor, who at the same time, if I am not mistaken, is the Deputy Minister of Health, in accordance with the Cabinet's order, if I am not mistaken, and according to your orders: every three must be recess, air and quartz. So in six minutes, you have to announce a recess in this session. And now I'm asking you to put number three on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u214	Arthur Volodymyrovich, is Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, he has written a position on how this should be done on all factions. I think you've read it as the head of the faction. Therefore, if you have any questions, please contact the profile committee. And now we're going to number three, which you just mentioned. Please prepare for the vote. Don't yell, please, you can leave the hall and get some air, but I'm not holding anyone, dear colleagues. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Amendment number 3. The committee is an editorial committee. I'm betting on confirmation in the paper where it's taken into account by the committee, i.e. it's edited, it's a Kornienka edit. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:56:00]] For 241 Decision taken. Next change, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u215	Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues. At the very least, I want to say that this attitude towards the people in this room is irresponsible. Because we did the quartzing and airing from 12:00 to the first, you made that decision, thanks for that, you did the same thing between 3:00 and 4:00, I demand you do it here. And I would also like to place number 57 for confirmation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u216	I fully agree with you, Your Honor, Arthur Volodymyrovich, but you're delaying this process, so you can move on. I'm betting on the vote number 57. The committee's listed as an editorial. I'm betting on a vote of approval in the same line as the committee. Please support and vote. [[18:57:08]] For 243 All right, you don't insist anymore. Thank you. The edit remains edited. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't an emergency session I called, so I don't have to tell you that I've put it in the agenda. Okay? Thank you. I see, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, Decree No. 138. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u217	But you're going to set me to zero. Yes, number 138, please bet on confirmation. If supported, please consider my statement of violation during the vote of Rule 116 of the Rules. Suddenly, the Old Ageing Act introduced a rule on amendments to the Constitutional Court Act in order for a particular candidate to be able to enter the Constitutional Court without a mandate. Isn't that right, Olga Volodymyr? This is what happens to us, unfortunately. Because today, by law today, before being elected, she is obliged to make a mandate. By the way, I didn't call her name, but she's already holding her hand because she knows who she's talking about. And then, and then again, I emphasize, this is a direct violation of 116, because 116 requires the possibility of changing related laws and related norms. As a reference to the Constitutional Court Act, Olga Volodymyrna's election, linked to the Old Age Act, is unknown to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u218	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'll bet you the approval number 138. It's counted by the committee. It's counted. 138. The committee reads it editorially. I'm betting on the committee for confirmation, which is to keep it edited. 138. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:59:27]] For 232 Decision taken. The edit remains edited. Show the factions, please. I'm betting on voting the law as a whole. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you still insisting? What kind of papers? Turn on Heratchenko's microphone. Don't scream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for confirmation of Amendment 70. And reminding all the Ukrainian people that two years ago we had an age of friendship. And the "quartulation" era began. And, imagine, a person who wants to become Head of the Constitutional Court, and this lady, who was the lawyer of Mr. Zelensky, is now asking this room to rape the Old Age Act, which has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court Act, and they're putting in this law a rule that this lady can be appointed to the Chief Justice of the Constitutional Court, so that she can be 200 percent of her Constitutional Court judge, as we now have 300 percent of her own Mrs. Henprokuror, trying to put that rule into law. And they say that the "servants" vote not because they so want to see this lady as the Head of the Constitutional Court, but because they have appropriate links to some of their payments, there or I don't know what to do, for the right vote. So I'm asking you right now, look who it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u220	I'll bet you I.D. number 70. It's taken into account by the committee in part. I'm betting on confirmation in the editorial that she's included in the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:01:29]] For 236 Decision taken. Turn on the microphone, Gerashchenko. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u221	Dear colleagues, we ask that the 75th amendment be made for confirmation, because all Ukrainians -- and old age and not old age -- are concerned about security and pandemic today. And today the Greensky government has taken 6.5 billion dollars from oncology patients, sugar diabetes from the health insurance fund, from health insurance programs, and passed it on to vaccination because the money was stolen for big theft. And in order for the next Constitutional Court to take any decisions in favour of Zelensky and justify these nonsensees, we want to introduce to the Old Age Act now a rule on the possibility of appointing Mrs. Olga, head of the Constitutional Court, who is Mr. Greensky's lawyer. That's why the Supreme Council is being raped today, the red zone time in Kiev is being put on the bill, it's not being considered as a security issue, it's a pandemic, it's nothing. Because you need 200 percent of your lady in the Constitutional Court. One.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u222	I'll bet you 75 votes. The committee took her into account. Please support and vote. Confirmed. [[19:03:03:03]] For 233 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Gerasimov. Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u223	We'd like to put 77 of these on confirmation. But I have a question for you, colleagues. You know, you all know what's going on right now. There is actually rape and regulation and really common sense. Because one for all, one for all, is the truth and what you stand for. How will one of you steal? You'll all be applauding, like, on the clock when illegal decisions are made. Do you understand? It's a mess. That's the interrelationship. It will do nothing good for you or Ukraine. And besides, I just want to remind you that you're getting local self-government right now. And you're killing the institution of old age. We are proud to have implemented this reform. What we have made this position of choice, the position of old age, to make people feel like hosts in their communities. You're getting it out of your system. You also rape common sense and legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u224	It's number 77, Cornyenka. It was taken into account by the committee editorially. I'm betting on the committee's confirmation. Please support and vote. [[19:04:47]] For 237 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u225	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Head, please place Amendment 81 for confirmation. And I want to address this room. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine, the leaders of your majority faction on all airs say that we have begun to move to the European Union and to NATO in a dramatic way. The government now waves its fist and requires a plan of action for membership. So by mixing the choice of old age with old age, you're basically ruining the European approach to self-government and the general approach to decentralization reform, which was based on the concept and philosophy that was built on European principles. So I ask you not to vote in favour of this law at all, and then I ask you not to support regulation 81. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u226	Amendment 81 was counted by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[19:06:15.]] For 239. The solution. The extreme two revisions, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka. Maybe 1 minute and 2 votes?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u227	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give me two minutes, and it'll be just two of my latest revisions. Dear colleagues, President Zelenski is leaving tomorrow. This amendment is about 88 amendments. Tomorrow President Zelenski is going to Paris for a very important meeting. We sincerely wish him success. But he will also have to report on the reforms that Ukraine is carrying out. And we see that not only has the end of the poverty era turned into an era of poverty, but today the key reforms of decentralization, fair elections are being killed. You know, it was a shame to look at how "servants" were made in 87 counties, when just through their knees they broke the choice and crossed out the possibility of honest elections, confusing the Carpathians, the Carnations, the humiliation of people, spitting on local self-government and the people who work on commissions. Right now you're doing decentralization reform, killing the very idea of choice of old age. And of course this has nothing to do with reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u228	I'm betting on the vote number 88, Cornie. The committee took her into account, putting her on the stand. Please support and vote. [[19:07:57]] For 234 Decision taken. It's a final order, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u229	That's 92 revisions. And obviously why we're taking the word, I'm asking you to put it on confirmation -- we want to tell all the Ukrainians now what's going on in the session room. "Serves" love to tell on all airs what country they've got. So they got a country where, through decentralization today, their local authorities, who are similarly formed in places, have more budget resources, have more opportunities in the economic, social, and social spheres today. In fact, today this very important reform of decentralization, which brings Ukraine closer to the EU and NATO, is being killed in our eyes. Because up to a hundred percent of the prosecutor, the judges of the Constitutional Court (we want to change Mr. Tupicko to Mrs. Tupicka – this is what is now laid down in this law), so we also, friends, want us to have "stupid" old age everywhere, not chosen. Friends, you know, not everything is bought in this room. You must be ashamed. You are now crossing out the hope that 73 percent of Ukrainians gave you two years ago, hoping for new faces.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u230	I'll bet you 92 votes, Cornie. It was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[19:09:29]] For 234 Decision taken. Let's go to the vote for the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the readout? Puzichuk. Tymoshenko. The number of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u231	Now I want to turn around. 133 axles. Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. For confirmation. I want to address all the Ukrainians who can hear us right now. I ask you to convey to all the cities and villages that are now, in the Lokdown, in the next session, the law is being extended that our peasants should be deprived of the right to choose their power in the village, their council and their mayor, their head. Practically people in the village are made lawless, you know, in the rest of the way. And plus, they've still come up with this law, which gives a certain person from the "Serve of the People" faction the right to oppose the Constitutional Court without creating a parliamentary mandate, which is what double standards the ruling coalition is now proposing. Vote for this law against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u232	I'll bet you 133 Bezgin's vote. The committee was counted. Please support and vote. [[19:11:20]] For 236 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Puzichuk. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u233	The 5th Amendment of Cornienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u234	Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u235	5.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u236	You see what you put to the vote. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u237	It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u238	It's already a mess. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the development of the Institute of Ageing (registration number 4535). Because we've already voted on it. Please support and vote. [[19:12:34]] For 239. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes (registration number 5327). You have to. Wait. A decision should be made to include the matter in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[19:13:13]] For-286 Decision taken. Should we listen to the committee's decision? Because. and no discussion, because. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then it is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. [[19:13:51]] For 243 Decision taken. First Deputy Minister of Education and Science Kizim Mikola Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u239	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! On March 31, 2021, the government approved a bill amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, which refers to the renaming of the Ukrainian National Science and Technology Award to the National Prize of Boris Patton. Boris Patton is a national public figure, president of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Hero of Ukraine, an academic. He died at 101, August 19, 2020. The draft act was developed by the Ministry of Education and Science on the initiative of the President of Ukraine to perpetuate the memory of the Ukrainian hero, the outstanding Ukrainian scientist and science organizer Boris Patton. The draft of the Act proposes changes to part two of article 11 of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukrainian State Prizes", which refers to the renaissance of the Ukrainian State Science and Technology Award to the National Boris Patton Award, as well as the introduction of terms in accordance with the laws of Ukraine: "For full average education", "For professional (professional and technical) education" and "For higher education". At meetings of the Supreme Council Committees on Education, Science, Innovation, and Public Authority Organizations, the local self - government project was adopted unanimously. Please support the draft legislative changes aimed at perpetuating the memory of academic Boris Patton. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u240	Thank you, Mikola Alexandrovich. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Public Authority Organizations, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u241	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization discussed on 14 April 2021 a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on National Awards (registration number 5327). Following a comprehensive discussion of the bill at the meeting, the committee agreed: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to define it as urgent in accordance with article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills. The committee also approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part one of the first and part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft law (registration number 5327) as a result of the consideration in the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole, taking into account such proposals by the committee. First. Paragraph 2 of the second paragraph of Section 1 of the bill states in the following edition: "For the creation of textbooks for general secondary education, professional (in brackets) (in vocational and technical education), vocational higher education, higher education, which meet modern requirements and contribute to effective knowledge management, have a significant impact on the improvement of the training of future specialists." The other one. Paragraph 2 of Section I of the bill reads: "Professional (professional) education, professional higher education." Section III, paragraph 3, of the bill should be amended to read: "2. The individuals awarded the Ukrainian National Science and Technology Award for the Act have the rights and obligations of persons awarded the National Boris Patton Award." In this context, section III, paragraph 2, "Ending positions" is considered to be paragraph 3. In the event of the adoption of the bill in the first reading and in general it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine entrust the committee with the preparation of the corresponding text at the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u242	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Let's write it down: two for, two for, please. The word is given to national deputy Kachuri Alexandr Anatolyyevich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u243	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, colleagues, that Boris Patton is really not an average person in our science, he's a person who's famous for the whole world, he's a scientist. And I'm very proud to be a graduate of the political institute, just like Boris Patton. It seems to me that such personalities, which unite the whole country that celebrates us worldwide, should be the ones to whom such prizes are awarded, are called the streets dedicated to the lessons of the older and younger classes that celebrate festivals. Therefore, I am convinced that someone who considers himself a Ukrainian should respect his talents, who have not gone abroad, who have dedicated their entire lives to the teachings of Ukraine and have developed many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, And let us all remember today the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u244	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u245	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Heratchenko Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u246	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u247	Dear Ukrainians, we are now discussing a proper and good bill on Ukrainian State Prizes, but there are no important additions. It's been a long time since this House has introduced a "order of absurdity" and a "order of adventurers" and a degree. That's what's going on here. Because this is the order of the day by raping this Parliament and destroying local self-government that was formed by a party of authorities at a time when the main challenges facing the country are security, it's an upsurge on the front and it's a pandemic. And at this time, the Green Stepan government minister with his proposal and Schmigal, Greensky, is the prime minister appointed by this majority, today, in his decision, they have taken six and a half billion dollars out of the state budget health insurance programme. This is the money that has been taken from patients with oncology, diabetes patients, and doctors who are now unable to receive a supplement by working in the Codex Red Zones. And at this time Stepanov tells them, but it's not for long, it's for a few months, because it takes money for vaccines. Do you need money for vaccines? Yes, because Stepanov of the government of Greens failed the vaccine, and in fact the vaccines today are a matter of national security, of national security of Ukraine. But "European Solidarity" has long offered to increase the cost of vaccines, to take them from the road theft fund where you sent them, from the prosecutors, from the D.B.I. where you sent this money, from all the drug-repressive organs. But what's going on here is really drawing on the "order of absurdity" and adventurers, it's softly I say, diplomatically, "first degree" and you can all hang these orders on your chest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u248	The word is given to Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland faction, Equality. Dear colleagues, the real son of the Ukrainian people, the true symbol of Ukraine in context and in the direction of science and technology, deserves to be mentioned today, not in a reduced procedure, but in principle, in the light of man, his contribution to the science and technology of our national science. Do you know why the son of the Ukrainian people? Because from the very beginning of his work, Boris Evgenovich Patton has been calling in various countries, including the Russian Federation. But no, he knew he was a patriot of Ukraine and he had to work, and he had to develop science and technology here in Ukraine, and not just science and technology. If you think of the bridge across the Dnipro River and symbolically what was the discovery of this bridge, which was the first in the world in electrolytic directions and robots to be discovered, and tested by it personally, and by its family, it says a lot about the world's achievements. I would also like to mention that Boris Evgenovich has also brought great scientific research into the health field. Because electric welding, along with the Shalimov Institute of Surgery, began to be used on living organs and eventually on people who have also been able to operate through these inventions. I also want to say that we have to make an amendment to this bill, because we have no right to deny the status of all those who, as this law enters into force, have the same name and have been awarded the National Science and Technology Award, and will now be named the National Prize of Boris Eugenovich Patton. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u250	The word is given to the national deputy Batenka. Rudik, please. And please invite the deputies to the hall. Then Lozinski and we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u251	Dear colleagues, here in the towers I've heard that someone calls this draft decision technical. No, it's not a technical decision. Just like the deputy minister should know that Mr. Patton died in 102, not 101. He is a great man from every point of view, born once every 100 years. Think about it, he was born in an independent Ukraine in November 1918 and died in an independent Ukraine. He is an associate of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, which he led for 58 years, 67 years, the Institute of Power welding. Where else have you seen such a depth that deserves to be changed in the name of this award? He, by the way, left a message for us, and it was six months before his death. Think about it. In 101 years, a man wrote. The effort of each authority is to solve the problem of Ukraine's further development without science, modern technology and innovation only through market liberalisation of economic life, the gradual privatization of foreign loans and other market and monetary assets has proved to be flawed and ineffective. None of the governments have been able to ban a real transition. To ensure a real transition to the country's innovative development model, thereby strengthening the economic backlog of our country, its decrepitization, deepened the economic inequality of the population and so on, and so on and so forth. Society, at that age, said the things that we should do with you in this room. We vote yes, and we hope that his instructions will be a guide for many generations of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u252	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u253	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. We will support the faction of this bill. We all understand Mr. Patton's character with his colleagues from the Voice faction. And it's in such a form of reward, a bonus, it's those really state institutions that have to have a historical memory. But today I would like to urge our Parliament to take a very careful look at matters of historical memory and respect for our great Ukrainians. Because we also have representatives of historic Ukrainian liberation races, such as Bandera and Suhevich, who have been deprived of their status; and like Konovalec, who have not yet been granted. I'd like us to avoid these pointy, selective positions. And we have Bogdan Gavrilishin or Lubomir Romanks, who were world-renowned economists and IT developers, and we need to remember everyone. We'll support this bill, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u254	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u255	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I ask you all to honor the memory of all scientists, all the patriots of Ukraine with a capital letter, in the face of Boris Eugenovich Patton in this room, for they deserve this, a minute of piss. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, would you please tell us that today our patriots would be so pleased with the loud noise in the hall when such bills are passed when in the country today officials who rob, kill, cut, burn Ukraine? Today, the city of Severodonetsk has seven military civilian administration orders that receive 85,000 dollars. Did scientists receive such wages? Today, in Lysicánsk, five tents that receive 100,000 dollars, along with Haydaj, who robs the Lugansk region. How many times can it be said that the killer is in charge of Lugansk, where the war is going? Why don't we write Patton's bonus for killing Lugansk today, creating an ecological disaster right in the area where the war is going today? Can you write to Patton’s officials today for starving the families of miners? For this bill, we will vote and support, but please be calm, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u256	I'm betting on the voting bill. Please prepare for the vote. The committee recommends the basis as a whole. No notes? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes (registration number 5327). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:31:12]] For 270. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes (registration number 5327). Please support and vote. [[19:31:49]] For 271 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the bill to stimulate the digital economy in Ukraine. Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (Registration No. 4303). Ready. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, you're silent. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you're not waving your finger now, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Then it's a reduced procedure. I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. [[19:32:54]] For 229 Decision taken. The vice-chairman of the Digital Transformation Committee, Montenegro Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u257	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! Today we are more than ever close to marking Ukraine on a world map as the center of gravity of IT business and investment from around the world. Bill 4303 on the special tax and legal regime "Dia City". These are the best tax and legal conditions for IT in Eastern Europe today. Diya City will create comfortable conditions for the growth and development of IT companies. The reduced tax burden, legal protection and new investment tools will all allow Ukraine to produce world-level products here in Ukraine. Our experts work in many countries. Our talents are headed by companies of the world's level, the IT company. Our startups set trends in the high-tech sector around the world. Diya City was designed to prevent them from seeking a better fate in Cyprus or in Delaware. So they can stay here. To register companies here. For intellectual property rights to also be registered here, taxes were paid here. I am. I've got four minutes to be in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u258	Come on, please. You haven't finished your time yet. You stopped a little too soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u259	I have a lot to say about Diya City, actually, because it's a really revolutionary project. We're confident that once Diya City is adopted, when it works, a lot of foreign IT companies will enter Ukraine, and that's exactly what happened in European countries that have introduced tax and legal better conditions. And that's what we were relying on when we were building this "Dia City" project. We also worked side by side.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u260	Yegor Volodymyrovich, when he's finished, and this is a work in progress, two minutes from the committee. No, it's not. Thank you. Please sign up: Two for, two for, against, from the MP factions and groups. Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u261	Give David the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u262	David Georgiyovich Arahami
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u263	Colleagues, this bill is actually a revolutionary bill, because it is one of the first initiatives of our power to bring to the world leaders an industry that is already demonstrating a very powerful growth. I won't be ashamed right now to say that, after voting for this bill, Ukraine can be in the tops, ratings as the best tax regime and legal regime for the IT industry for all Western and Eastern Europe. So I ask everyone to join this very cool initiative and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u264	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u265	Please pass the word to Ariev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u266	Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u267	If you think of a revolution, this bill is fashionable to compare with the result of the revolution that brought about by the Colgs and the CPS. You know, it's all like one anecdote when the car came by. representatives of the famous concert put on a new line from the production of world cars and the result came out "Giguli" -- "kopieka". And there are two workers standing there saying, well, you see, you're damning this place, and you said hands from one place. So this bill and I also have this dualism going on: either the place you're cursed or the hands from the same place. Because today, the vice president of the IT Association has called this bill a colospore, in which the Aitish are forcibly prosecuted. There's a petition registered on the Ukrainian president's website. Already nearly 20,000 representatives of the sector are asking just to "take away" the "Dia City" in the way it is represented today. And one question I have is, who are you doing this for today, if the etysians are against it? Because this bill also foresees forcing the FOPs to join the Diya City, and for auditing small and microbusiness, which, in particular, provides IT services, but has no audit money. This is the Mincify dictatorship, which is the legislative creation of a merger within the "Dia City" that actually usurps the branch by principle: who first got up is the one and the keys. And the wallpaper is who's making this "Dia City" right now. And then actually this branch is going to be controlled. So, I can tell you, unlike industrial parks and metallurgical enterprises, the A.I.s, they shut down the computer -- and they moved to another country to work. And if it is accepted in that way, the Apostolics will simply leave Ukraine. That's why "European solidarity" isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u268	Puzichuk. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u269	Good afternoon, colleagues. Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I realize that at the end of the day it's hard to understand information, but let's distinguish good declarations and kind of a good goal from real things. I hope all the factions showed you, and you could read a letter from Ukraine's largest IT association, which calls for not adopting this bill and going back to work, as we did the first time. It has already been mentioned that there is a petition from the Aitish who say not to do so. There's a call from the European Business Association to all the factions not to do that. Why? Because the right definition is the market that exists today that is developing. And when I asked the authors of this bill, why not? That this market that the state doesn't regulate today is developing normally, 30-40 percent a year, what's not enough? I'm told, and if we accept this bill, it's going to develop 100 to 200 percent per year. That's a good goal, but it's the A.I.s that work. After reading the bill, they see that this will not be the case. Because we can remember what they're asking for. We don't need us, we don't need to be forced into self-organised organizations. So this bill, chapter four, suggests that they're affluent companies, that Diya City's participants have to join self-organised organizations. The Ministry of Digital Transformation is being transformed into a regulator who, without trial, can rule out Diya City and the participants in the court won't be able to challenge it. I mean, the Ministry will determine whether you're the right guy or not, and you can't challenge that in court. These are unconstitutional norms. You can't do that. And hearken unto the Hathites, and do not do the synagogue. "The Fatherland" is against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u270	It's a motive. It's a motive. After that, Zmerenecki. Then we go to the vote. Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u271	Please give the word to Jehor Chernev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u272	What I'm saying is that what you're hearing right now doesn't exactly correspond to reality. First of all, no one's driving anyone to the Dia City. Absolutely voluntary entry into the Dia City. It's different. There are mechanisms that can be challenged by the participants themselves. Third. A voluntary resident organization called Dia City. We've had a lot of meetings with all business associations and IT companies. We agreed on more than 70 percent of the lines they gave us. So you don't have to say we're against, that's business against Dia City. I'm asking you to support this bill, which will give rise to the growth of the digital economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u273	It's a ferret.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u274	I also want to shed some light on this bill. These are additional incentives for IT business. All the possibilities of working that are now in the Etysians, they're being preserved. They worked as FOPs, they'll work as FOPs. Diya City is about the development of high-tech companies, about the development of high-tech businesses. Let's look at the same Turkish we mentioned today. There are 84 technology zones where thousands of companies work. They're completely exempt from income tax for a few years. From the VAT. 50 percent of the EU is compensated by the State. That's where our etysians go. We can't compete. Our individual programmers work as a raw asset to rich countries for nothing. We want the branches of international companies to be opened in Ukraine, so that Ukrainian businesses become unicorns, so that Ukrainian Aythics do not work as just FOPs within these companies, but are protected socially and have additional opportunities to drive business here. That's what this bill is about. Anyone who wants to work the old ways will be, and no one will stop them. But it's new, it's new.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u275	I'll explain to colleagues who don't look into what's going on in the hall. Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer gave the word to Montenegro’s Volodymyrovich, so let us not create problems where there is no problem. Thank you. Thank you. You also pass the word to other colleagues from other factions. Thank you. She has a right to be motivated. The rule is what a book is. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (Registration No. 4303). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[19:45:23]] For 227 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure equal opportunities for mother and father to care for the child. Don't scream, please. No one insists on the papers? Then I'll put it to a vote. Nobody insists? You don't have them there, you don't. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure equal opportunities for mother and father to take care of the child (registration number 3695). Please support and vote. [[19:46:40]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill (registration number 4643-d). This is a draft law amending the Code of Taxation for Taxation and Congregations, other compulsory payments that are subject to transport taxes. Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited to the rostrum. Besides Speedy, someone's gonna insist on editing? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please give it to me in writing. Arthur Volodymyrovich! Arthur Volodymyrovich, give written instructions that you will insist on. For confirmation? Okay. Edit 37, Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to support this amendment, because it is still not three months from now, with the possibility of a debt blurring of "eurobs." Why am I asking you to do this? I was approached by people who have a car on their Euronomists, and in order for them to get lost, they have to go to the country of origin of the car, get it out of the register. In connection with the coronavirus, it is impossible to do so today. So I'm asking you to support this amendment and extend for another three months the possibility of a debt blur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u277	It's number 37. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[19:48:37]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next line's 76, Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u278	Colleagues, please. I understand that you have a dungeon in there where you're written as, what to vote for, but at least listen to what I'm saying. I'm asking you now to support an amendment that gives you the right to exempt from excise on one vehicle of disabled persons, many children, participants in combat, disabled persons of war, children's homes of the family type, that is, unprotected sections of the population. Some people think it's a small amount, but for these people, it's pretty high, and it's a lot of money. I don't think we'll lose much if we give them that opportunity. Moreover, many of them are in line to get free cars from the state, but they will never get them, at least allow them to get away without paying the excise. I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u279	I'll bet you 76 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[19:50:08]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 80s, 81st, 82nd, 83rd, Speedboat. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u280	Dear colleagues, you are now showing by your vote that you don't care about people because you don't care about people with disabilities, the unprotected levels of the population and what you pay them now and what you do for them. These regulations apply to our safety, safety, and safety on the roads every day. We've got a lot of neurons, we know they're too old. And we know that they're in pretty bad technical condition. What I'm suggesting is that Europlums, who are over six years old, will undergo a technical examination. Because the number of people who die on the streets today is just crazy and is with you the safety, life and health of our children, our people, Ukraine as a whole. I'm asking you to support these revisions, and I understand that this rule might be a bit of an inconvenience and yet what it's like to go through a technical review. Now, Mr. Reporter can say that a comprehensive bill is being prepared that fully returns the technical review. But I'm not talking about giving it all back, and I'm asking that the technology during the blurry process be carried out exclusively by the old Europlums. And we don't know when a complex law is going to be passed and what it's going to do not before 2023, that's understandable to all of us. So in order for us to feel at ease on the roads, I ask you to support these, too important, adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u281	I'll bet you a vote. Do you want all the editing? Amendment 80, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[19:52:34]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Eighty-one. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[19:52:54]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 82 axles. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[19:53:14]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 83 revisions. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[19:53:37]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Eighty-six. Can we vote now? Everything, don't you insist? No, it's not. That we're voting. Dear colleagues, next time you add more to the agenda of the day’s emergency meeting. Batenko, four minutes. Instead of all the rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u282	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I've got about 10 rights. Thank you for your time. I mean. It's not exactly a good practice when we're looking at such important bills at 11 o'clock of our plenary day. The more we have the opportunity to look at it calmly, the more nobody cares about us. We don't have the Europlums that are taking care of us today, but at least they're expecting us to make the right decision. Our ideology, our philosophy is slightly different from that of the bill and the head, the reporter who today is presenting the bill, knows about it. We're proposing radically different changes in our revisions. We propose a total cancellation of excise taxes on vehicles and bodies, such as those that cannot be attributed to excise goods according to world practice. We seem to be able to achieve the abolition of excise taxes on transport vehicles on a permanent basis as one that has failed to justify itself and has prevented the development of domestic automobiles. We're saying we're stressing the zero rate of excise duty. You don't have to be afraid of losing your budget. The amount of non-recovery from cancelled excise duty, my friends, will only be offset by revenue from customs and VAT as a result of the increase in imports from abroad. So we don't have to worry about environmentalists, because lowering the costs of clearing will obviously allow Ukrainians to import cars into order more expensively to meet higher environmental standards. In addition, we offer the full offer, as Ana Krakhod has already said, to relieve the excise tax on "eurobly" imports by members of the ATO of the Russian-Ukrainian War, or by parents from many children or foster families with five or more children. We're proposing to increase the tax period during which it's proposed that the so-called "europellas" be absorbed. Because even if you mathematically divide the 400,000 cars that are estimated to be in Ukraine today with a violation of the import and stay deadline, by the number of days and the number of areas of Ukraine, it is clear that the implementation of this bill is unrealistic to the fullest extent and the elimination of the problems of "euroblies" by this bill today. Let's increase the debt period and allow citizens to properly realize the right to clear their cars. Colleagues, we're also asking you to exclude from the bill a discriminatory component of taxation, so-called "eurobills," as in age. Because if this bill is adopted for newer and more expensive cars, citizens will pay a lower excise rate than for cars of older age. So that's our philosophy, that's our ideology, that's somewhat different. I'm more than convinced that it's being supported, actually, by the Europlums, who today, by the power of the Lokdown, have not been able to come and hear them near the walls of Parliament. So, Your Honorable Dmitri Alexanderovich, please put to the vote, taking into account Amendment 1, Amendment 20, Amendment 38, Amendment 41, to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u283	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Bragar Vadim Evgenovich. Oh, I'm sorry. Vote -- what's the read? Turn on Batenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u284	Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, please place number one, number 20, 38 and 41 on the count.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u285	Four?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u286	1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u287	1
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u288	20, 38 and 41. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u289	38, 41. Amendment number one. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[19:58:23]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment 20 by the committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[19:58:46]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Thirty-eight baton. The committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[19:59:06]] For-41 The decision is not taken. And number 41, Batenko. The committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[19:59:24]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Bragar, 62 degrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u290	Good afternoon! 62 The amendment refers to categories of benefits, namely UBBs, persons with disabilities, and many children. My friends, let me remind you that you and I, our faction colleagues, traveled to Donbas in October 2020. We were asked one question to almost everyone who was there. We were asked when a blur would be available for the participants in the fighting. That's why, my friends, I ask you to take and support this amendment and do what we promised them to do and to give available clearing to the participants of the fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u291	It's an important amendment, 62nd. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u292	I'll bet 62 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u293	The committee's not supported, not supported by the committee, I don't know why. Please identify and vote, 62 revisions. I'll back you up. [[20:01:58]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Another assignment, Vadim Evgenovich, yours. Eugene Vadimovich, I'm sorry. 74th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u294	Yes, my second draft relates to a group of Ukrainians who cannot be blurry right now, according to this bill, in relation to the age of a car. The cars of 1991-1993 will have some serious blurring problems. We should be able to allow them a certain category of citizens to blur, because otherwise they will not be able to. Thank you. Let's give them that opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u295	74 redundancies. The committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[20:03:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. For confirmation? Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u296	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! You know, the Parliament has been working for four hours today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u297	Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u298	Please place number 65 of Mr. Laby for confirmation. But four hours today, the Ukrainian Parliament is working. Are we today considering laws that apply to the resistance of the epidemic? No, it's not. Are we today considering bills that relate to the support of our army and its weapons? No, it's not. Are we considering, for example, the draft law on defense of procurement, amending this law, which is prepared by the committee? No, it's not. Are we considering, for example, the bill on the Ukrainian State Border Service, which is prepared by the committee? No, it's not. I'm going to go into more detail on other papers, but, colleagues, this is not responsible. Because the responsible authority sets priorities and draws attention to the problems that really stand before the state first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u299	That's good. I just didn't understand what you didn't like about the lab. I'm betting on the Lab number 65 vote, it's partially counted. I'm betting on her confirmation in the paper that she was taken into account by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[20:05:06]] For the 220. Edit rejected. More? What's that? What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u300	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, please also place the number 66 of Mr. Bragar for confirmation. All right, look, I'm gonna keep thinking about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u301	No, let's essentially do the editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u302	Dmitri Aleksandrovich, instead of considering today, for example, the Territorial Defence Act of Ukraine, which is prepared by the Committee, the Military Chaplainship Service Act, the Social and Legal Protection Act and the members of their families, with all due respect for the bills that are under consideration today, Your Honor's colleagues, you have to consider this first and foremost in the pre-trial sessions. Because today hundreds of people die from COVID every day, thousands, tens of thousands get sick. And today the Russian troops, and there was a committee meeting, are greatly increasing their numbers on the borders of Ukraine. This should be considered in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u303	I'm going to give my position to the committee now, but next time you make your proposals for the extracurricular. 150 signatures -- let's look at yours. Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u304	Mr. People's MP, right now what you and your faction are doing is called such political spam, legislative spam. Because this edit has nothing to do with any of the words you just said here. First. The other one. You know very well that the money from the clearing of the euro will be directed at fighting COVID and arming the U.S. military. [[B in m in s a l in]] And so I'm asking you to have the honor and dignity not to do what you're about to do next. I want all Ukrainians to know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u305	I'm betting on the vote number 66 of Bragara. It's considered editorially. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the committee's confirmation. Please support and vote. [[20:07:36]] For 224 Arthur Volodymyrovich, if you're not correct, I'll turn off the microphone. I'm warning you right now. Do you have a deal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Togo! Dear colleagues, according to the Rules. Don't prove it! Because there's no extra time, they're going to be right now. It's all right, please. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u306	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Please place 94 Mr. Getmantsev for confirmation. If you think of it as "good evening" by one of your colleagues in a monotonous way. Well, maybe you can respond to that. But I would like to respond to the reply of someone who is now standing in the rostrum. If you think that the strict requirement of the opposition to vote bills that deal with the resistance to the epidemic and the support of the Ukrainian army, and the increase in the number of weapons, it's legislative spam. So you know, you're probably not this country's national MP if you're against arming the army and supporting the military. Thank you. And number 94, please put it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-15-m1.u307	94th. The committee's editing is partially counted. I'll put her on the committee vote. Please support and vote. [[20:09:11]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation and Collections of Other Compulsory Payments, subject to which the means of transport are subject (Registration No. 4643-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[20:10:05]] For 235 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to temporarily simplify the customs clearance of vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine (registration number 4644-d) (also second reading). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the temporary simplification of customs clearance of vehicles imported into customs territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 4644-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[20:11:15]] For 237 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Next time, I look forward to more questions in the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Good evening, everyone. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
