ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u1	Good evening, dear fellows! Good evening, members of the media, please prepare for registration. In response to the requirement of 155 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with article 19, part 8, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider personnel matters, and the issue of the agenda is given to you. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. As a reminder, the registration takes place by clicking on the green button on the first left, and you should be sure to apply the sensor button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:02:05]] There are 230 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Sosun Inna Romanovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u2	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, for over a year, Maxim Stepanov is headed by the Ministry of Health. And let's think about what this year was, remember the scandal about how they bought doctors’ remedies at prices that were higher than market prices. Remember, though, how everyone looked for tests and could not be tested. Moreover, even today, 51 percent of COVID-19 tests are being done in private laboratories at cost. And remember, volunteers have been looking for artificial lung ventilation devices, and to this day, most of the concentrators who receive Ukrainian patients are provided, not by the state, but by their own fund, for which we are very grateful. But at the same time, this raises the question of what did the State do? Do you remember the government’s promise to pay the doctors their insurance payments? Doctors and their families remember well, and they can tell a great deal about the amount of hell they had to go through to get those payments. During this year, 48.5,000 of our fellow citizens died from COVID, and there would have been more if it hadn't been for the heroism of our doctors, but there would have been fewer if there had been adequate management of the process by Minister Stepanov, but that would have been in the past. In the Voice faction, we are most interested in the future, where we are going, and what the new Minister of Health is supposed to do. First of all, it is absolutely urgent to increase the rate of vaccination. Just think, we've got 2.3 percent of Ukrainians getting a vaccine today, and we're having a catastrophic fall in vaccination rates. By the end of April, nearly 33,000 of our fellow citizens had been vaccinated each week and 13.5,000 had been vaccinated last week. And unfortunately, we also need to prepare for another outbreak of the epidemic. At the rate of vaccination that is, it is inevitable. And I understand everyone's talking about vaccines right now, but I want to say that we have to think about how to continue to provide testing and how to finally provide oxygen to Ukrainian hospitals. The Voice Party has drafted a bill to finally allocate money to put oxygen stations in Ukrainian hospitals. We're proposing that 800 million people go to the hospital for the purpose of setting up these oxygen stations that the authorities haven't been able to set up in a year. 40 members of the various factions signed the bill. I'm asking you today, regardless of your attitude towards Minister Stepanov, to think about Ukrainian citizens and our patients, and to help in the hospitals finally establish oxygen stations. Let's do it together for our citizens to finally help them. But of course, the first thing to do is to put away Minister Stepanov, who obviously failed everything that could have been failed in the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u3	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is invited in connection with a break with the replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u4	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I don't think there are people in this room who don't read the last sociology, where about 70 percent of people think the country is moving in the wrong direction. And only 15 to 16 percent of the people in Ukraine still think that something might change, and some hope might come. So the total majority of Ukrainians see that they are leading the country in the wrong direction, giving virtually everything that the country has, destroying people's lives, dumping all our national wealth and making corruption so vast. In fact, people feel that way in their lives. But there's something to tell people and there's something to explain. We know that today is the absolute authority of President-in-Office Vladimir Zelensky. He has everything: his government, his majority in parliament, his power structures, his all - out country. And what is being done today at all levels is directly his decision. And instead of building a strong national state with a rich people, with the resources that are being used properly, with a strong economy, with a beautiful European country, a new colony is being built, where everything is being sold. But you can only sell once where you take people last -- social protection and benefits, where tariffs don't allow people to live. Everyone in Parliament understands that this is the President's policy, but the show that's on TV shows shows something else. The president is trying to transfer responsibility to his fight. And so the guild in government, the replacement of ministers, and, for many days now, the media are not talking about the Ukrainian nation being deprived of land, of life, of resources -- all of it, they're talking about how ministers are going to change. That's why we don't have to change ministers, change people's names, change Ukrainian President's strategy, change the country's governance course, fully concentrate resources and build a happy European state. And what's happening today is a show to protect the "good king" and destroy the "bad fights." We're not going to participate in this show because it's all absurd, and not today's ministers are to blame for the complete breakdown of governance by the country, and personally the President is to blame. And I think if there's even a drop of courage, the President has to admit it and take the fall for it. We're leaving the hall now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On May 14, 2021, a statement was made to the Supreme Council by a member of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, Crikliy Vladislav Arturovich, asking to be released from office as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine at his own request. The right materials are given to you. The following procedure is proposed: a report by the profile committee - within 2 minutes, an answer by the Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister - within 10 minutes, a question to the minister from the national MPs - to 9 minutes, statements from the MPs and groups - by 3 minutes each faction. As always, after that, we go to the vote. Is there no objection? Thank you. The chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Infrastructure, George Grigorovich Kisiel, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u6	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure at its meeting on May 18, 21st, reviewed the statement made by Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Crikliy Vladislav Arturovich. According to the outcome of the discussion, based on section 12 of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and parts of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian National Deputies decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Crikli Vladislav Arturovich be released from office as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. Taking this opportunity, I would like to express my gratitude to you, Mr. Minister, for your cooperation with the Committee and for your joint efforts to work and make decisions that are important to the State and the transport sector, regardless of sometimes different views and ways to address these issues. In particular, laws have been adopted: "Inland Water Transport", "Review of Motorways", "implementation of Automated Whaling Controls" (WiM) and others. At the same time, we have many challenges and goals aimed at achieving a high level of quality and safety of transport services, improving infrastructure, introducing modern digital technologies, ensuring that national legislation is brought closer to EU legislation in the field of transport. The branch needs decisive, effective decisions and actions. Please support the decision of the minister and the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u7	Thank you. The Minister of Infrastructure Vladislav Arturovich Crickley is invited to speak. Rules up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u8	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I'd probably start out as a member of the people's deputies, so I understand how you work with us. I want to say that in 20 months, the minister of infrastructure, most of which fell into a pandemic, had to take steps that were not available to any minister of infrastructure, because we were constantly at a crossroads: from one dock, reduce the mobility of transport to prevent the spread of the pandemic; on the other hand, we were involved in mass evacuation of our citizens. In general, the priorities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and my team were the constant course on European integration, investment participation, infrastructure development and the same, fair rules for all. But as with an iceberg, the summit is only visible above sea level. All infrastructure projects needed and needed substantial funding for their implementation. But not all could get what they needed. Yes, the Crucifixion, for example, paid and continued to pay huge taxes on budgets at different levels, and the Seaports Administration counted 90 percent of the revenue in the form of dividends to the budget, which stopped investment opportunities, investment projects. And it's only this year that we've managed together to change the dividend policy, reducing it to 50 percent, giving us a chance to develop new infrastructure projects. Is it possible to develop infrastructure without money? No, it's not. It's also impossible to develop "The Crucifixion" without a profile bill. Regrettably, despite all the enormous work, in two years they failed on the transport subcommittee of rail transport to review and recommend a bill of profile. But the Ministry team worked with businesses in our area and did a lot. When I became Minister of Infrastructure, the level of implementation of the European Association Agreement was 18 percent, which was in my predecessor's three years. Now that's 42 percent, and we've significantly increased the pace of implementation of the EU Association Agreement. Over the last year, six large investment agreements with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank total over 100 million euros. Modernization continues, not by road alone, modernization and airport construction. Among them is the Odessa Airport and the Vineyard, the Plains, the Hersons, the Dnipro and the Carpathian. The design of a new airport in Zakarpatt started in June, and the new runway at Odessa International Airport will be able to take flights and the full-fledged work of the International Airport "Uzhgrad" will be restored thanks to the fruitful work with the Slovak government. And we were able to raise 56 steps and improve our position in the ICAO aviation safety rating. The airmen know what they're talking about. And at the last government meeting, we were able to join and make decisions on the Eurocontrol route assembly system. This is another step toward European integration in our air navigation and congregation management. We have done great work with our colleagues, with the European Commissioners, with the European Union, with the Council of Europe. And all the documents have already been sent to the Council of Europe for the adoption of the Open Sky Agreement. In fact, the end of June, July is already planned for the signing of the Open Sky Agreement, which is a no-carriage for aviation. For the Crucifixion, which, six months after the pandemic, was forced to stop in part of passenger transport, but there were no massive layoffs for a large number of workers, and a large family of 250,000 workers remained to work. However, for the first time since Ukraine’s independence, we have achieved government support of 4.2 billion dollars of funding to upgrade the mobile warehouse for rail transport and electricity and infrastructure. A deal has also been made with the French government to purchase 130 electric vehicles with more than 30 percent localization in Ukraine. The admission to the general rails has begun, and this is the demonization of the services provided by the Crucifixion. On the investment block. In addition to all the well-known two concession contracts at Olivia and Harrison seaports, which involve 3.7 billion dollars of investment in these regions' economies and in our country's economy, we continue to scale up the success of the preparation of concessions in four more ports. This is the Black Sea, the container terminal and the ferry. This is the Odessa passenger terminal, as well as Ishmael and Berdjansk. Another 6 first road concession projects have been prepared jointly with the International Finance Corporation. And this year we're starting these ambitious projects because it's easier to build together. Our joint achievement was the historic adoption of the Law on Inland Water Transport. And the result did not make me wait long. This year alone, the number of river transports increased by 63 percent. And we have managed again with support, in close cooperation with our European colleagues, to achieve that the Council of Europe will vote in favour of joining the European TEN-T network of our South Bug and Dnipro rivers. We did not forget about road safety — road safety, which we are also responsible for. An auto-photo, video-fixion system has been started, and I thank you all for your input. It has been prepared and is waiting only for the green button, not in the voting part, but in the passage of the bill. The weighing system in motion, which is 50 complexes that will allow without inspectors, without a human factor to protect our roads, but to do so, we need to adopt two important bills: 3742 and 3743, and that's your job. In the field of postal services, the pandemic has become both a challenge and an opportunity. We started delivering through our postmen and through our mobile rural medicine wards, and that was important. Thanks to a joint project and funding with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank, we will receive funding for the purchase of 1 000 850 mobile units, as well as the construction of 5 sorting logistics hubs that will allow us to operate electronic commerce and ensure the quality and speed of our citizens. And equally important, because many of you were concerned about this project, they started selecting a consultant to buy a bank. In fact, "Symbiosis" in symbiosis can actually become a bank in this way. From the first day of our activities and decisions, we regularly greeted the honored oligarchs. Thanks to the amendments to the Air Code that you have voted on, now, without exception, all airlines are forced to pay and pay, and not as before, they have accumulated billions of debts at the expense of the state. And the issue of fair tariffs in transport and the alignment of these tariffs and the creation of an independent regulator will be left to our successors. But these questions have been initiated, and hopefully they will be implemented. Dear colleagues, thank you all for changing the country with us, along with me. In particular, I would like to thank everyone and every individual MP, and the parliamentarian who has worked to improve the country, for improving our investment climate, rather than just looking after his own issues. Sadly, they were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u9	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Questions from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Sign up, sign up. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u11	Vladimir Ariev
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u12	Mr. Minister, I have listened very carefully to your speech right now. It was a report filled with optimism and beautiful such important things that were done. In no way can you understand why you resign if you work so well. And then I have a different question. Or maybe they want to replace you with someone who's better at controlling the "great theft" in order to do so through the Ministry and confidently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u13	I think there's a part of emotion in this part of the question, and part of the question is to me. I want to say that from the very first day we came to command work and went to command work, and I think it's normal cooperation with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u14	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u15	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say that you may not be one of the few ministers who made the report. And this, I think, is a good start for every minister who goes, and every minister who comes in here with concrete results and with a concrete plan. I'm glad we're still starting to do this. My question is this. Whatever you say to yours. I hope you will hand over to your successor all your purchases, as well as all your documents. Whatever you say. Five steps that need to be taken to make the Crucifixion, which has 5 percent of GDP in size, still started to reform and still started to work? Because in the state you're in, it's paralysis. And that will eventually lead to an economic collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u16	Thank you. I'll tell you more. That I'm also passing on the Transition Book. I think it was a good practice in its own time when the successors are given a prepared report, which is done and in what state, and where you actually have to press it to do more for the country in general. As far as Crucifixion is concerned, there was a lot of confusion here. But this is also the result of corporate reform, which is the management of the Crucifixions, which is responsible for the operational results. As far as the Ministry is concerned, this is clearly a question of fair tariffs. Since the cost of resources in international markets cannot be seen on the one hand, the same tariffs remain. So in fact, the state is supporting, squeezing up the biggest carriers, and we understand who and what we're talking about. It's very important. Moreover, the process needs to be completed. Because we're in a pilot project, we've launched a private drive, and this process has to be scaled up. And Crossroads or rail transports aren't supposed to be equal to Crucifixion. The Crucifixion has its own responsibility, where, of course, the state has to leave behind strategic functions as a monopoly. But there must be other players in the market. Where there was demonopolization, the climate is always improving where there was competition. Thirdly, there's probably no way we can allow the default of this one of the most strategic companies. And here we need to involve our international partners constantly in order to get a normal, transparent low-percent funding and restructure those accumulated debts that pulled the company down. Well, obviously both the fourth and the fifth, that everyone wants to upgrade the mobile warehouse, improve rail transport, improve infrastructure projects. And for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u17	Thank you. Ustenko Aleksei Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u18	Minister, very much has been done. It's also a Big Construction program, it's really putting order in our ports, it's a lot of infrastructure projects, and we appreciate that, and we're glad you were on the team. You've always responded to any request, to any request, and it's really important when there's communication between the Supreme Council and the Minister. And once again, I also want to support my colleagues and tell them that it's very good that you came and reported on, and it's really respect for the Supreme Council, and for the people of Ukraine. My question is. Tell me, please, I know that the work started from the inland waterway E40. Tell me, what stage is it now at, and what will you advise your successor to do, so that by the 23rd year, for example, this path can at least, if it doesn't work, it's already started to build actively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u19	Thank you for asking. Thank you for your assessment. This is really important and valuable to me. I would like to point out once again that the European Union is ready to connect our network of river transports, namely Dnipro and South Bug, to European river routes, to a network of tanks, including. This year we have an increase of more than 60 percent in river transport. It's unpopular to talk about it politically, but the bottom-up work that we've done on the Appetizer has allowed us to export, import, apologize, part of the products and petroleum products that come from Belarus and are already delivered by river transport, unloading our road network and not doing any harm to them, but for the full implementation of the E40 project that the Black and Baltic Sea can bring together, and there is also a need for support, of course, from our European colleagues in Poland, Poland, because this project is worth nearly 12 billion euros and they are working on it, so we need to remind them. But the adoption of the Law on Inland Waterways, the entire European Union and all of our fellow Europeans have been very highly appreciated, and that is why we will now be able to access the EU structural funds, to finance investment projects, but it is equally important that you adopt the Code of Amendments that will allow for systematic financing of the upgrading and upgrading of gateways across the Dnipro River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u20	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u21	Please pass the word to colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u22	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u23	Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know the Ukrainian Constitution. We have to be parliamentary-presidential, not office-presidential. And you just admitted on the committee that you wrote a statement because it was requested by the president. This is a major violation of the law. Are you ready to testify in the DA's office that you're leaving your post under pressure right now? First question. Second question. How did it happen that, under your direction, a mile [m] of road repair doubled? And the third question. Recently, the head of the budget committee was caught in a restaurant with a businessman who gets 90 percent of the bids on "the big theft"? How many times have you been with this businessman in restaurants? And how did it happen that you have one firm that gets all these orders and gears? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u24	Thank you. I'll do it again, and this is an important thesis that all actions are taken in command. Clearly, we have a parliamentary-presidential republic and all of these things, even if they are communicated, discussed, the decision is made in a legitimate way. With regard to construction projects and the value of areas. We need to specify the exact road that the tender is talking about. Regarding restaurants there or at lunchtime, I did not quite understand. I don't quite know what you're talking about. I had certainly never had lunches or meetings with the fine - tuned organizations of the great construction work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u25	Thank you, Vladislav Arturovich. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up for an address from the MP factions and groups. Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I want to say that this is a really good precedent that the minister came in independently of whether or not he was going, he made a report. And we want to hear these reports from every minister on a regular basis, not once every two years, because these are important ministries, important projects, and this is a large part of the economy, as we would like to hear, including from the future minister of infrastructure. What am I trying to say? To the problems that you and I have heard about both the Crucifixion and much more, I want to say that this sector is just one problem. Starting with sailors who cannot obtain their diplomas and who confirm their qualifications. But unfortunately, for bribes and money, from $2 to $10,000 is worth supporting documents, basically getting diplomas, which should actually be administrative services and at a minimum cost. We lose with you like a country, 150,000 sailors all the time, because these people are looking at this bureaucracy and at bribes and making decisions whether to stay in Ukraine or take their things and go abroad and they'll leave. So I call on the future minister, please address this question number one. I know that there was an order, unfortunately, that he was accused in the OASC of this beautiful court and now the sailors had to pay bribes again to get his diplomas and confirm his qualifications. What I'm saying is that we have a huge problem in the airline because this sector has suffered the most from the coronavirus. What is this industry, why do we have tickets that cost more than to get to Brussels, and sometimes to New York, why do tickets inside the country cost so much money? Let's figure it out, let's still do it so that not only our tourists but also our citizens can travel, not smashing their cars on our roads, but also to travel safely. We have a lot of problems with roads that were built earlier and are now being built. Why? Because there is no actual control over the weight of moving trucks, they break roads and continue to crash. There's no clear regulation, and there's no clear fines and no admission of guilt for those who are moving with overloaded cars, and as a result we have a country with the largest number of accidents and road deaths, more than 3,000 per year and more than 30,000 injured on the road, it's almost war. So, colleagues, I urge the next minister to come to us more often, to report to us on every issue, and we helped him, regardless of whether we're a party of power or opposition, because this is our life and this is our infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u27	Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u28	Thank you for your word. I'd like to actually join my colleagues and, also, thank the minister and thank him for what he's done, quite theitanic, and his work and that he came to Parliament and had the courage and the honour to talk about his work. He has nothing to be ashamed of, actually, for his work. And as for dinners, dinners, or phone calls that a colleague of ours raised here, I'd say with a winged expression, "I'll give you a hug."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u29	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u30	Dear Ukrainians. "European Solidarity" is the only faction in this room that has nothing to do with the governments of Green. We didn't vote for any minister, we don't take responsibility for this chaos, this mess, this non-professionalness, this corruption of responsibility, unfortunately, all the other factions bear this responsibility. Our position is that the whole government of Greens for non-professionalism, for bardage, for corruption, for chaos, for lack of strategy to retire, and we've raised 91 votes for it. Colleagues, "ministers" don't be ashamed, you'll be approached anyway, and then you'll be forced by all of these know-it-all ministers who became nameless ministers, because you don't know their last names, to resign them when your king's will comes from the Bank. Because unfortunately, for the first time, we have a case where the Ukrainian Parliament is multiplying by zero, and all the decisions are going to the Bank. We just heard the report, not the report, but the Panegiric, we have a wonderful minister, I don't know, maybe you're the successor of Zelensky. He said he's going on one appointment with the presidents and now he's looking for who else is going to be so brilliant, because we've actually heard here that we're good with the roads, with the Crucifixion. Respectable oligarchs are starting to press, only statistics say otherwise. Friends, the age of poverty has ended, the era of poverty has begun. Prices and tariffs are rising, not what you promised, people don't even have money for tickets. And in this time of the Crucifixion, members of the Supervisory Board still get a double salary for having a nightmare instead of dealing with their own direct business. Of course, it's a shame when the minister who came here, promising the people new principles, new rules to protect the Constitution, "like a rabbit" writes a statement because that's what the President told him. And if he tells you to jump off the train at full speed, will you? In fact, we see the destruction of all institutions today. And we think that the issues of all ministers in general should be addressed by anti-corruption bodies and structures, prominent anti-corruption officials who are now holding the minister's hand and hugging the minister there, thanking him for his work, so don't vote for his resignation. Well, you're afraid to vote. But the evil tongues say that the oligarchs are holding the "Serial of the People" faction and you are severely fined for every vote. And in fact, the explanation, please, to the Ukrainian people, how did it happen that you declared the fight against the oligarhat, and in the meantime, while the people are impoverished, the oligarchs, according to all the statistics, have taken their wealth very seriously, including through these corrupt tenders, including through the Cruise Line, on which they are actually earning money, and you are only now in your report for the first time in two years. We're going to vote in favour of all ministers' resignations, because we actually think that Greensky should be gone by now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to release Crikli Vladislav Arturovich from office as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. Ready to vote? The committee's decision was to "support." Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:42:03]] For 284 Decision taken. Thank you, Vladislav Arturovich, for your work. I wish you success in new directions. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Don't scream, please. Dear colleagues, I have orders from the Apparatus to prepare a decision on the outcome of the consideration of the matter. The next issue of the agenda, in accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, is the discharge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On 14 May 2021, the Supreme Council received a statement from the Cabinet member Petrashka Igor Rostislavovic requesting his release from office as Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine at his own request. The right materials are given to you. The way in which this matter is dealt with is the same as in the previous consideration. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha, is invited to speak for the report. The vice president of the Committee, Rocksolán Andriyov Podlas, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u32	As instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 18 May considered the statement made by the Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Petrasko Igor Rostislavovic, on his own request to be released from office. During the discussion, Ukrainian national deputies did not support the release of Petrasko Igor Rostislavovich from the post of Minister of Economy and Agriculture of Ukraine and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the vote on the issue be decided. And separately, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Igor Rostislavovich on behalf of the committee for his fruitful cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u33	Thank you. The Minister for Economy, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Igor Rostislavovic, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u34	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, colleagues, friends! I just remember, literally a year ago, he was standing here on the stand before the vote. We discussed plans, discussed assignments. During this year, much has been done. There are a lot of plans that will be implemented, I'm sure, in cooperation with you, in cooperation with the Office of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers. But the main achievement, I think, of the ministry was to stabilize the economy in the context of the chronological crisis. This is a challenge that we have suddenly received and responded to properly. For the first time in history, if we say, we've been through a crisis without a major shock in a stable exchange environment and with a simultaneous rise in both the minimum and the average wage. The underlying foundations for economic growth are also positive developments from March, including growth in exports, trade, industrial production for the first time in many, many years. That's exactly what we've been able to do. It's very brief and very close to key work and achievement. So the 5-7-9 program. The business received such financial resources for him. At present, more than 40 billion have been issued by the program, and this figure increases by 2.5 billion dollars each week. We have reloaded it several times, improved it to function effectively, but it has become an integral part of micro and small businesses. Pay it back. It is clear that the forced closures of enterprises, restrictions, resulting from the quarantine restrictions imposed by the government; 8,000 payments were introduced by special programs. And already about 6 billion have been paid, and the payments continue. So we support and support business. Unemployment. To preserve a stable situation in the labour market, an entirely new program was launched and is unique not only for Ukraine but also for other countries with partial unemployment. And all the procedures for the registration of the unemployed and the payment of the aid have been simplified. Thus, 500,000 jobs were saved and more than 800,000 people were employed this year. So we were able to stop the growth and lay the right foundation. The Ministry of Trade and Agriculture, so we also did agriculture. And I want to say a few words about the APC. Not only has all the support been saved, despite the budgetary constraints that were imposed on April, in May last year, but important new directions have also been added, which will already be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, and we are handing over these foundations. These support include cattle farming, irrigation, agrossing. The drafts were introduced, and they're in the Supreme Council, together with you, with the committee we worked on. Earth reform has prepared infrastructure to open up the land market. Food security. I think we all remember the discussion that we will have no food, no restrictions, no price hikes. All the food supplies were provided in full volume, where we tried and used as many market methods as possible to stabilize. The price situation has always been under increased control and has been continuously regulated, despite the objective factors associated with increasing demand for agricultural products in the world and as a result in Ukraine. A strategy for Ukraine’s food security has also been developed. Privatization. Large privatization has been unlocked, with the government budget of over 2.5 billion dollars and more than 200 objects transferred to privatization. A major reform of the rent of state and municipal property has also been launched. ProZorro system. The purchasing system has been improved and a new criterion has been added to allowing better access for Ukrainian entrepreneurs, which is the cost of a life cycle. This is a push for the development of both the national manufacturer and the quality of the provision of government needs and the needs of Ukrainians. ProZorro Market. Ukraine saved 43 billion dollars on tenders and introduced electronic catalogues on an unprecedented scale. An important direction in the process, but which we have achieved for the first time in 10 years of progress, is industrial failure. A large-scale preparatory work was carried out for the conclusion of the agreement and a first positive report was received on 5 May from the EU evaluation commission, which gives us very optimistic prospects for progress and finally for Ukraine's "industrial visa-freeness" of non-tariff restrictions. We're really on the verge of a really revolutionary solution for our industrial companies. Investklimat. In Mineconomy, a fundamental "investnative" bill has been developed and the legislative framework for state-private partnership and industrial parks has been improved. For the first time, 4 billion dollars will be spent on public investment projects with your help, of which 2.5 billion are dedicated to medical projects. Protection of the national manufacturer. And we've started to look at this approach differently, and we've started to actively use those measures that allow us, including our international agreements. At present, 28 measures are being taken to import a variety of products that help Ukrainian manufacturers feel more confident about our market. International cooperation. 23 new markets were opened to Ukrainian exporters. A Free Trade Agreement has been concluded with Britain, where 98 percent of all Ukrainian goods have access to the UK market. I would like to point out that all our volumes with the European Union were preserved in the same volume. So we added Britain to the things that we did, to the possibilities that Ukrainian business had. Export. The statutory capital of the Export Credit Agency has been increased. And now there are also some legislative initiatives to expand its activities. And a supervisory board was formed and the first insurance contracts were made. This process for this year we plan that the demand for ESA products should exceed 10 billion dollars. And at this point, there's already a package of applications for an amount that exceeds $250 million, and that's just the beginning. Important decisions have been made in the sphere of labour relations, intellectual property, public property, the defence and industrial complex. The government's defense order has been followed up, and so has the Ministry of Defense. And other things about the security and defence economy. It was also possible to strengthen the institutional capacity of the State and to move away from the site the construction of border inspection posts. I want to thank the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the government team, the MPs and the Mine Economics team for their strong cooperation. I believe in Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u35	Please sign up for the information provided by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u36	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u37	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u38	Dear Minister, please tell me that you actually have the highest authority in the government as the minister of economic development, trade and agriculture in order to set the rate of economic development that we have to go through, otherwise this beggary and decline, the decline in GDP, compared to every quarter, we are all falling and falling, and it's just going to end with a huge collapse in the country. But you just said your achievement of 5-7-9. Of the 40 billion 26 billion, this is a refund, out of the 8,000 of your initiative, there was not at all, because it was Parliament that was working on draft laws to help the business survive this quarantine period. Where were you at that time? And I think that what you've just responded to needs to be shared in half, because most of your initiatives are not beneficial. These are investors who are creating a very uncompetitive situation in Ukraine, which is why business will go from Ukraine. How can you put this in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u39	Thank you for asking. We can bet and this is an objective situation, because once again, I'm going to repeat that Ukraine has been through a crisis that was global, much better than our neighbouring countries. And this is the first time in history. This is an important fact, and no one will change that. Next, second. The foundations that are now at stake for this year, and we're responsible for our projections, that's 4 plus percent of GDP growth, and we're already seeing confirmation of this, starting in March, from April of the month to our results. As far as investment is concerned, I think that the Ukrainian producer and not just the manufacturer, that's, say, production in Ukraine, that production in Ukraine should become a priority. And all, including international partners, have agreed and realize that this is an absolute law that meets all our international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u40	Kasi Konstantin Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u41	Please pass the word to my colleague, Dirdin Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u42	Again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u43	Thank you. In your statement, I didn't hear any information about Ukraine's national reserve. I have the next question. What was done during your cadence in the sphere of the state reserve of Ukraine? Because the Mineconomy controls the activity of this sphere. Why am I asking that question? Because in a year at the factory, the Arbusinka bread base in the Mikolayivsk region has changed five leaders in a year. People have been released, there is only one security guard who works without pay and protects the state reserve. The question in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u44	Thank you for asking. Clearly, there are sensitive and painful issues, including one of them: the state reserve of Ukraine. We saved a lot of things that needed to be saved. At the same time, it is clear that the concept of reforming the state reserve of Ukraine, which must change and cease to be a remnant and rudimentary of the Soviet system, and the transition to more progressive methods, as we have provided, for example, food security. This is one of the functions of the state reserve. We've moved on to other internationally recognized methods of security. And they signed, and they made memoranda with both manufacturers and processors and exporters. But it is true that the issue of reform of the state reserve is on the order of the day and must be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u45	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u46	Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u47	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u48	Mr. Minister, the Minister of Economics is primarily a representative of entrepreneurs. I have a big question for you. Why did you keep silent when the government imposed foolishly, sometimes destructive precautionary measures in the form of quarantines on the weekend and anyone else who destroyed the business? Why didn't you keep your mouth shut when we didn't have real business support? Why weren't you on the task force when here, in Parliament, and day and night at the beginning of the pandemic, we were developing measures for business to survive this period? Why did you keep silent when you raised the minimum wage, which is actually a tax raise for small and medium-sized businesses? Why didn't you ever take the initiative to really develop an economy instead of pulling 2-3 percent of GDP forward? Why didn't you do your job as Minister of Economics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u49	Thank you. The function of the economy minister, I think we did very well with the team and together with Parliament. In the things you comment on, a lot of things that were actually done correctly. Including our support for raises and minimum wage. Quarantine restrictions, of course, were painful for business, but they were absolutely justified. And if you take it and compare it to neighbouring countries, any good expert is always analyzing the experience of neighbouring countries, we've gone as softly as possible. And they offered, within the limits of financial resources, support programmes that they've saved, and once again, I'm stressing that they have given better results than in our neighbour countries, and they've laid the foundation for a better growth once again than in our neighbour countries this year. And that's the only way to evaluate the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u50	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u51	Mr. Secretary, I want to tell you that the reform of the Reserve was developed in the 15th year and seems to be in the 16th. The only thing you had to do was implement it. But nobody needs to implement the Dereserve because it's convenient to steal 4 billion dollars a year. And the fact that we have an increase in fuel should be shut down just with reserves of fuel, not by raising and completely misregulation of the state in the fuel market. But my question is different. How did it turn out that in a war - torn country, a state defense order was filed for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers only in April instead of doing so in January 2021? Are we not going to implement anything in defense? Do we not need new weapons? Don't we need to upgrade factories? How did this work out? It's you, in fact, who kept him for four months as the Ministry of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u52	Thank you for asking. That's not true at all. But I'm going to ask you to go back to the Cabinet of Ministers, because we haven't been doing the state defense order since January.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u53	Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u54	Jaroslav Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u55	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u56	Mr. Secretary, we'll finally have a chance to talk to you. Then let me continue with the questions. If you're talking about raising the minimum wage, I have a very, very simple question for you so far as the Minister of Economics. How much, at least, did the tax burden on creating one job increase as a result of raising such a minimum wage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u57	Thank you. I understand that the Voice faction is only in Parliament. See, raising minimum wage is always part of the balance sheet. Raising the minimum wage in the case of our government was absolutely justified because our minimum wage is one of the lowest in the world. And raising the minimum wage according to our calculations has contributed to an increase in GDP by 0.2 percent in the annual equivalent and an increase in consumer demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u58	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u59	Please pass the word to Irina Vereschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u60	Irina Andriyovna Vereszczuk
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u61	Mr. Secretary, good afternoon. I have another question. I thank you for the report. You called those advantages, and those projects that were made, and those processes that you started, which we thank you for. But I don't think he's full. You did not specify an error and that you failed. Please tell me that you failed, and who or what prevented you? It is important for us not to make mistakes in the future. And if there's no further work, then for a future minister, yes, it has to be a guide, because we don't change the last name, we want to change the attitude if there were no workflows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u62	Thank you. We always discuss this a lot, and we always try to make balanced and right expert decisions. I think from the fact that it's not yet clear, there's more support for the national manufacturer. So this is bringing standards of support to the Ukrainian manufacturer, including foreign investment to the things and standards that are in the European Union. It's probably this ambitious plan that we haven't fully achieved. I'm sure you could work on the "investment" as quickly as possible, and we're now actively pulling in to run this program as quickly as possible. Faster to run an export credit agency. But these are all things that are based on a huge amount. I wasn't an official when I came here and it's easy to always talk when there's outside. But when there's a huge amount of sublegal and other documents in there that need to be processed and created. These things that create the foundations of the new economic system they take time. So I'd like to, of course, make it happen faster, but I think we've laid all the right foundation and kept the right movement for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u63	Thank you, Igor Rostislavovich. Please have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the MPs and groups. Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, there have been many discussions today about the candidates and about the current Minister of Energy, and I propose that we save some time and move on to the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u65	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u66	Pass it, Iron Man, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u67	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, the Minister of Economics is probably one of the most popular and most compromise figures for business. Because unlike the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy must protect the business – it is his direct duty. He's an ambassador to entrepreneurs in the government of Ukraine, he's an ambassador to entrepreneurs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he's an ambassador to entrepreneurs in the executive branch of power. But unfortunately, I have to say that for a year we almost had no minister of economy -- this is a unique case where there's a good team of substitutes in bad management. I remember a year ago when quarantine began, in fact, most of you took part in a working group that worked on business support bills during the lockdown, were representatives of all factions, were representatives of all branches of government, but there was no minister of economy. I remember when we introduced the second lockdown, and we all voted here that it was impossible to implement it in a day, at least in a week, and I am grateful to each of you for supporting this initiative, but I remember that the Minister of Economics also kept quiet. I remember the first time an initiative was taken to pay 8,000 dollars to those entrepreneurs who had to listen to us and shut up during the lockdown. And there were problems with Quebec, and there were problems with payouts, and we all talked about it, but there wasn't a person who had to talk about it, the economy minister. Now we've already had the third lockdown, and my colleagues from Voice have put in a bill to support business, and there are initiatives that we've already done before in the lockdowns. I have, as one of the co-authors of this initiative, the position of all ministries, but I have no position at all from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because in fact there is no minister. I'm glad we'll make that decision today. But, dear colleagues, our government needs economic vision. I don't want to read the news every time that Ukraine's GDP is now going to grow by not 4 percent, but 3.5 percent because it was once again accepted by a stupid and inefficient elbowhouse. I want to hear from government officials about economic development, I want to hear from government officials about how we're going to go forward, how we're going to compete not with countries in Africa, how we're now competing for vaccination, but with countries in Europe. That's why I think the decision to release Mr. Minister of Economics will be correct, but unfortunately, it's too late to do so another year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u69	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u70	Thank you. Please give the word to a colleague who is celebrating his Angel Day today, Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u71	Irina Vereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u72	Heroceno. And welcome everyone Irina to Angel Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u73	Or Heratchenko? Here we go. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u74	You know, dear colleagues, if there was no pandemic, Greensky could use the idea. Because in the pandemic today, Greensky and his young, not professional, absolutely free, the team is cheating minus 4 percent of GDP just this year. The deficit of 19 billion had been added over the past two years. The deterioration of the investment climate, the "none" is, there are no investors. Naftogaz, which was left to you by the previous profit team, you have minus 19 billion. Social services have grown to a quarter. The roads are three times smaller than the dusty ones, twice as expensive, you know? And all of this can be written down as a pandemic. The communist, absolutely, regulation now of gas prices, then there'll be sugar, then there'll be toilet paper. Back to USR. Actually, because maybe Zelensky is suffering for the Soviet Union. We've been promised by the Green government to create 500,000 jobs, created them in Poland, because doctors, which Greens and his government, including the minister of economy, do not make sure that they pay the corresponding allowances. The destruction of small and medium-sized businesses. And all of this is happening in the context of absolute populism, lack of economic strategy, human resources, chaos. "European Solidarity" is the only faction in Parliament that is not responsible for the government of Greens, the opposition that has not voted for any minister, unfortunately all other factions bear this responsibility. We once again call for salvation for the country to be the resignation of the Green Smygal government and the resignation of Zelensky himself, because all of this chaos gives birth to him. And the names of the ministers, you know, you don't remember them yourself, although now that you've been applauding Mr. Crickly, I'd like to pay attention to Greensky's place, and I haven't applauded this room in a long time. Maybe because Zelensky really said he was only going to the presidents for one term, and you're already looking for his successor and that's Crickley, we're going to yell, "Crickley, come back!'You've got other plans for it.' But in general, my friends, whom you don't put in this Green Smeaguel quartet, the situation will not change. Because when it's the authority of dilettantes, not professionals, when they serve oligarchs and get envelopes for their votes, you understand that not to be called what are the next names -- that's not going to change anything. And in general, as an ancient of Parliament, I don't want to say that you are now multiplying yourself, but Parliament by zero, when you allow the Office to appoint future ministers only because those ministers will better share with the Office corruption schemes, and you are not putting out any principles: neither professionalism nor patriotism to future ministers. You see them for the first time, they report to you in two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u75	Urban Anatoly Igorovich Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u76	Dear friends, you and I are fortunate enough to have seen the entire economy a year ago, and a year later, when it's taken off, we have the opportunity to see it again, and the whole country has the opportunity to see it visually. I've been here a long I especially took the order of the afternoon session, for I feared that I was confusing his name and his father, for in the hall I even asked who we were filming, most couldn’t even mention his last name, not what Igor Rostislavovich called. So that's probably the answer, which is the minister and the economy in Ukraine. What a minister such a government. Because the Minister of Economy in any country of the world is always a figure number two after the Prime Minister of Ukraine. When the President of Ukraine, Mr. Zelensky, says that we have to build a unique economy that will be different from other countries and offer some unique option for investors, for those people who want to invest money in the country who want to live here, this minister should give an answer to the President, what this country should be unique. Look at other countries. Japan (I took help), which does not even have its own raw materials today, produces unique products and earns them. We sell, we export raw materials and we import imported goods and we leave there tens of times as much money as we should make here, making our industrial goods, producing our agricultural products and so on. Until Mr. President's government realizes that exporting raw materials and importing finished products is a way into nowhere, it's an approach, nothing changes in the country. I have repeatedly said that show us what will be the economic model of Ukraine? What does the government offer us during the year to build in Ukraine? Instead of using banks to credit the industry to create jobs, to buy equipment, they remove all the money in the budget from those state banks by means of bonds, and they eat stupidly. Instead of taking loans for development, for construction, for industrial recovery, for aviation, for space, for any other field, they take the money into credit and they just go through it again and again and again. Nothing's changing. We've been hearing for 20 years that we have some kind of economy minister. Now I've named the last name, two minutes ago, most of them won't remember after what I called two minutes, the name of this minister. And not the question in the name, not the question of Igor Rostislavovich, but the question is that the government is not focused. The government never told us what he had to do. And that's why they're turning one minister into another minister again instead of taking professional people who will come with experience and show what they have to do next year in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by voting on the issue. Therefore, according to article 85, part one, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, I am voting for the release of Petrask Igor Rostislavovich from the post of Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready? It's the right thing to do. Please vote. [[17:16:58]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you, Igor Rostislavovich. I wish you success, new perfection, and victory. I would like to ask the committee of profile, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision taken. Thank you again. The next issue of the agenda, in accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, is the discharge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the release of Stepanov Maxim Vladimirovich from the post of Minister of Health of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. The way in which this issue is addressed remains the same as before, but the Prime Minister of Ukraine's speech is added because he is the initiator of the issue. So let us move on to a direct consideration of the matter. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend. Up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u78	Good day, Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! 2020 has become one of the most difficult periods in the history of Ukrainian independence. In March, April 20th, the Ukrainian medical system was completely unprepared for the challenges it faced, and accordingly, there were no labs, there were no specialists, there were no equipment, there were no hospitals. And that's when all of us, together across the country, started solving all of these problems, all of them together -- the government -- and the Supreme Council, the Office of the President, the local authorities, of course, Ukrainian volunteers, business, the public, of course, the President was in charge of all these trials. And today, in the last year, the capacity of our medical system has grown. The health sector in the past two years has grown almost. The budget has doubled almost twice and it's all worked out because we've all really looked at this situation. And only in 2020 did the world’s best scientists — doctors have publicly stressed that vaccination will be the only way to stop the epidemic altogether. Thus, the prime task of the minister for 2021 was to vaccinate and provide enough vaccines for Ukraine in the first half of this year. Both the President and the government and the Parliament were responsible for this task. Negotiations, purchases, arrangements, and supplies were constantly delayed and carried on. At the same time, the head of the MOH has repeatedly assured both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, that the supply situation will be resolved as soon as possible, and such supplies will become regular. So the progress on this issue is too slow and still, and the information that the minister communicated to both the government team and society often disagreed with reality. There are now 2.3 million doses of vaccine in Ukraine. This is difficult to call effective work of the minister of health. The president himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u79	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two. They're done. Thank you. U.S. Health Minister Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov is invited to attend. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee will speak after. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u80	Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the people! On March 30, last year, in the midst of the global pandemic, you voted in favour of my appointment as Minister of Health. I made this decision consciously and decisively, fully understanding the importance of the situation and the responsibility placed on me. At that time, the coronavirus was just beginning its terrible course. Just remember the footage from Italy and Spain, the refrigerators on the streets of New York. Do you remember the storm of emotion that followed our country? I remember. In such circumstances, the ministry team began its work. We knew where we were going, but then no one thought it would be that difficult. At the beginning of the pandemic, there were 3.5 thousand beds of oxygen all over the country. Compare these numbers today to 68,000. At the peak of the third wave this year, the number of occupied oxygen beds was some 44,000. However, despite the intense strain on the medical system, oxygen beds, and ventilating equipment, the lungs were enough for everyone. Even though there were extreme situations, we went through them with the whole country. A year later, the Ministry of Health team built a stable system that allows our country today to avoid leading the death ratings of the Coronavirus. Yeah, it's not perfect, it's not perfect. Over the course of the year, COVID, unfortunately, lost over 47,000 of our citizens. A sad and bitter figure. But if we had the same mortality rate as Britain, for example, that figure would be about 82,000 citizens. The Ministry of Health, me and my team have never turned down constructive remarks. On the contrary, they always went to a meeting and sought common ground with all who were ready for the dialogue. The ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle said, "There is only one way to avoid criticism: do nothing, say nothing and be nothing." For example, there was a tough but professional discussion on the profile committee yesterday. Sharp questions of MPs, my honest and frank answers to essentially the questions asked. Finally, the committee did not support my resignation, leaving the people to choose for themselves what is a sign of really European political practice. During this year, we had to do several dozen tasks each day to save people and beat the newsprints. For example, it was as if the hospital had failed to provide oxygen. We had to make sure that this was not the case. As a result, there is no example of an oxygen leak in one hospital. Just think, the apparatus of artificial ventilation of the lungs without oxygen doesn't work, it stops immediately. You've never heard of such facts. One of the reasons why the Prime Minister of Ukraine was handed over is that, as he just said, it was a failure of vaccination. But the truth is worth telling. The failure of vaccination has occurred worldwide, and we do not produce vaccines and are not a priority country for supplies, unfortunately. We started negotiations on the supply of vaccines to manufacturers in July-August last year. Because of this, Ukrainians have now begun to receive vaccines from the world’s leading manufacturers. Critics called vaccines "engineers," and people were told that there would be no vaccine, or that it would be dumped in storage. But even under such conditions, we have managed to contract 34 million doses from world suppliers already this year. This is 20 million Pfizer and the rest of AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sinovac Biotech. Yes, our country started vaccination two months later in the European Union, that's a fact. But let's speak frankly, vaccines and immunization are primarily politics and economics, and then friendship and good neighbourly relations. The producers initially closed off domestic demand and then made external deliveries. When we started vaccination, we had a confirmed supply of 3.1 million doses in the first quarter and 5 million doses in the second quarter. But as they say, you want to make God laugh, tell him about your plans. Instead of more than 8 million doses to date, we have a total of 2 million 306,000, of which 122 thousand 850 doses of Pfizer vaccine have arrived today. The global contracting process of vaccines is like force majeure, politics, outright piracy, that's understandable. My team's work schedule is a busy daytime rhythm and sometimes nightly negotiations with vaccine producers in relation to time differences. The results of this work are said to be visible to all of us. Today, Ukraine is provided with 42 million doses under direct contracts and COVAX initiatives. At the same time, the average direct contract price is a little over $7.5 per dose. The president of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelenski, played a significant role in signing these contracts. In 2021, I'm completely calm, we're provided with vaccines, but we're looking at the future. The Ministry of Health began negotiations two weeks ago on the supply of vaccines and contracts in 2022 and 2023. Today, nearly 1 million Ukrainians have been vaccinated. Are I being vaccinated? No, definitely not, but for the sake of objectivity, they depend solely on the availability of vaccines. Organizationally, we are ready to perform half a million daily vaccinations. Because of considerable politicization, the pandemic’s theme clearly left the ministry’s other work unwarranted. In the people, they say: "You can't see behind the trees and the woods." The Coronavirus didn't stop any other diseases or announce a time-out for medical reform. Despite much pressure on the medical system, much progress has been made. There is also a solid foundation for the development of transplants and the bioimplant market. I saw the full tears and happiness of the eyes of the people at the transplant forum in Lviv: the future priest Lubomir and the four Ukrainians he gave to his dead mother. A few years ago, you definitely wouldn't have heard that story. Over the past year, our country has made a giant leap to transplant independence, and in just 4.5 months this year, our surgeons transplanted 42 kidneys, 10 livers, and 4 hearts. Soon the transplantation independence is complete. In the final direct implementation of new digital services. For example, a digital vaccination certificate is being prepared, starting on July 1st -- a few clicks to be able to travel freely across Europe and the world. They say the minister's asking for a lot of money for medicine. Yes, this is true because the surgeon at the operating table should think about saving the patient, not how to feed his family or where to get money for new baby shoes. If today’s mechanism is unable to do so, it is necessary to consider changing the whole of the health funding paradigm. Yesterday, I was surprised to learn that another possible reason for my resignation was that I was overly active in beating wages for doctors and forming a political image of it, saying it was the minister's fault that he was using political instruments in his work. Perhaps this is news for someone, but most structural decisions require not only a management component but also a political will. We all have different views, but we're the only ones in one -- we need to build a strong, self-sufficient and successful country with affordable and high-tech medicine. At last, the patient needs to follow his health. This is the main and only meaning of our work. And I'm glad that in the last year, a solid foundation of this sense has been laid. We have had a very long year and many challenges ahead. I have a clear plan to completely overcome the pandemic, to build effective Ukrainian medicine. This requires two components: time and your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u81	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter, 9 minutes' notice from the National MPs. Zhariah Maksim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u82	Please give Vereshuk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u83	Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u84	Wrenchek Irina Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u85	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Stephen, for your report. You have indeed led the ministry in times of great difficulty, and we thank you for that. Clearly, however, there are circumstances that force us here today to withdraw from the question of your resignation. Please tell me you just said in your report that reforms require political will. Do you think this will has no one — we have, in Parliament, who, by their decrees, has made every effort to combat the pandemic? Doesn't the Prime Minister have a whole cabinet of ministers? Maybe the President doesn't have it? Who does not have the political will to reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u86	Thank you for asking. If you remember, I said that in context. There was more than political will. It takes not only a management component but also a political will to solve some problems. That's why I stressed that if we have political will, we should finally acknowledge that the wages of our doctors, and that's what I've been stressing since last year, it's a slave. And that's true. And it takes political will to do it. To do so is to raise the wages of our medical staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u87	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u88	Today this creature will be asked to put Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u89	Minister, during this whole period of fighting the pandemic, you have successfully failed the various stages of this fight. Starting with the fact that the country had no masks at the beginning of the pandemic and after that. Even in spite of the allocation of funds to the cadaver fund, you began to purchase oxygen exclusively in the fall. You didn't use the cost of saving vaccines to form a vaccine basket in Ukraine. I don't know, did you insist, did you fail, or did you participate in the use of lining companies and join, interfere, intervene in the work of a separate purchasing agency? But I have a question. NAN Ukraine says that the death rates of Ukraine are threefold higher. Not 46 and a half thousand people, but 138 and a half thousand people. How do you sleep with these numbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u90	The numbers you're talking about are completely unconfirmed. We're talking about real statistics, unfortunately, that number of dead people from COVID that are in our country. We run open politics and fight for the lives of every person, every citizen of our country. Unfortunately, too bad, COVID is taking our citizens. To stop this, we need to overcome this pandemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u91	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u92	Please give the word to my colleague Stefanishini Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u93	Please, Stefanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u94	I know that right now you, Mr. Stepanov, all this time, all this time, this whole time or two, are putting pressure on the national MPs, promising them "Golden Mountains" -- money to the county, money to the hospital, and so on. First. Colleagues, that's a lie! The Minister of Health today does not have the money and the money you are promised for the district or other Ivy will not be able to give you. This can only be done by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Office of the President. And all these people today want to get this man out of office. So first of all, I'm talking to my colleagues -- don't believe these liars. And you, Mr. Stepanov, I just want to wish you, stop being humiliated, you want to be liberated by the whole country, stop spinning like a snake on a pan, push on the deputies, and lie to people, and quit at last!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u95	I understand that in your imagination, perhaps if you were in some position of executive power, there was the instrumentation you're talking about right now. I'm pretty sure you've been using all of this. But I am a person who treats himself with, as a minimum, self - respect, and so do the national MPs. I think it's like this, below such a self-esteem to do it. So those fairy tales that you've been distributing for a year, they're all used to, and here you can say, they're, thank God, they're already getting smaller, these fairy tales, people, and they're less likely to believe.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u96	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u97	I'd like a word with my colleague, Maslov Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u98	Mr. Minister, in your speech, you also haven't mentioned volunteers who openly helped fight COVID have solved issues and supply and oxygen and concentrators and protective devices in fact. And I've got a question for you. Given the possibility of your release here in the walls of Parliament, I want to know. Will it affect the supply of the vaccine? Is it as you said that Ukraine is now fully contracted by vaccines this year and that your possible resignation will not in any way affect the receipt of vaccines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u99	Thank you. They? As far as vaccines are concerned, I think that's a very important question for our country. As I said before, we have two sources of vaccine supply. The first source is the COVAX vaccine, which my deputy was involved in, is Victor Lazko. We have all the documents signed there. And the second source is directly contracted vaccines. There's 34 million. All of these vaccines have contracts. These contracts contain terms for the delivery of these vaccines. Under these contracts, expenses are paid, for all, without exception. So all of these 42 million doses. Unfortunately, we've seen this in practice when other countries are simply banning the export of vaccines like we did with CoviShield, which should have delivered all the vaccines by April 1. Now, I think one of the main issues, except in 2021, is to make a contract for the 22nd and 23rd years. Since European countries are now contracting, the European Union is contracting 1.8 billion doses of Pfizer for 2022-2023. And that's why, as I spoke during my report, two more weeks ago we started negotiating vaccines. Including one of the owners, with the owner of the Serum Institute during his visit to Kiev, during my meeting with him, we also discussed deliveries in 2022-2023 and also started with other manufacturers, so now, that's the main question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u100	Thank you. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u101	Stefanishius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u102	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u103	Good day again, Mr. Stepanov. First of all, the methods used today by the pressure on MPs are exactly your methods. And today is the day that we're going to mention everything about you that you've been admiring, buying doctors' protective suits 40 percent more expensive than you've been chemicalizing for the purchase of vaccines for Ukrainians that we don't have yet. And for your jacket, for $10,000. And you know, I have this technical question for you, and you're going to be sitting in Ukraine for all your sins, or are you going to run away abroad anyway?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u104	Mrs. Stefanisina, I've told you before that kindness, basic respect is not your strong suit, it's in life, we're all different, we're all different people. I've already told you that those fairy tales you're distributing, they're, like, at least, they've stopped believing in them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u105	Thank you. Please sit down, Maxim Volodymyrovich. The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u106	Dear Head, my honourable colleagues, unfortunately, cannot give me the right to question, to comment, so it is according to the Rules that the committee's decision is. Yesterday, May 17, 2021, a meeting of the National Health, Health, and Health Insurance Committee discussed the submission of Prime Minister of Ukraine for the release of Stepanov Maxim Volodymyrovich as Minister of Health. After hearing and discussing this issue with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Office of the President of Ukraine and the leadership of the faction of the political party "Slut of the People", the National Deputies of Ukraine, the members of the Committee to approve the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a vote to support the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the release or non-support of Stepanov Maximo Volodymirovich from the post of Minister of Health of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u107	Thank you, Michael Borisovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u108	Please pass the word to Peter Dustenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u109	Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u110	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Please tell me, does Maxim Stepanov deserve to retire? Obviously, no doubt about it, and that is the most humane way of punishing him. However, I would like to remind you that Mr. Stepanov is the fourth, in exactly two years of his tenure as Mr. Zelensky, Minister of Health. What further evidence is needed of the man - made chaos that has taken place in the country for the past two years? And isn't that evidence that the health problem isn't in Mrs. Stepan's, because the country was left without masks, without protection, without anything. Mr. Stepanov, when he answers Mrs. Stephanie’s question, it would be worth mentioning that my charity fund bought 40 percent of the suits cheaper than the Ministry of Health. My charity bought oxygen concentrates 27 to 40 percent cheaper than the Ministry of Health. The same was true of X - ray equipment. Friends, it's a very simple name and regardless of political sympathy and antipathy we have to admit -- it's got a name, it's corruption and it's got to be held accountable for it. Second position. When they're trying to accuse Mr. Stepanov of not being, it's not right to buy vaccines effectively enough. Unfortunately, we have to say that there is now "vaccinal nationalism" and the responsibility for purchasing lies only with the heads of state. And what we're in last place, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky, is your responsibility. And the fact that today is not 46.5, and not 47, as Stepanov said, but at least 48.000.469 Ukrainians gave their lives, 34 percent more died in March of the 21st than in March of the 20th. And the answer is very simple, Stepanov has to resign. Green's got to be responsible for death, and we need to unite to solve the issues of vaccines, oxygen, beds, the production of vaccines and the rescue of Ukrainians, which is our goal with you. Let us unite. Thank you. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u111	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Arabia to David Georgiyovich, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u112	I give the floor to Deputy Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u113	Deputy Nekludov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u114	Thank you, fellow believers, thank you, Mr. Davide, for being able to express your vision, your opinion on the subject that we are discussing. Of course, we have our own vision as to whether the minister of health of Stephen deserves to be in his place. If they don't see him on the team, of course, it's a reason to leave. He's expressing his point of view, but if it doesn't match the point of view of the team of our greatness, he has to go. That's clear. But, you know, respectable colleagues, we have to act in the manner prescribed by law. That is, how the Constitution provides for and adheres to ethical rules. So how long are colleagues of "European Solidarity" going to insult their colleagues by calling them beings or anything else? You know, yesterday I listened to the "Bihus," where I heard more of the words you were saying about you. And the word "hold a hand, hug" was released to us yesterday. Why was that? Why did our soldiers turn in the opposite direction? Why didn't you help? Why did you conspire with another radical faction, with which you say that. [[Unheard]] The Kremlin. You associate with them, and all your actions show that you are to blame for the fact that the war has not yet ended. So I'm asking you very much, we're going to ask the regulatory committee to let that colleague who's insulted and really violated all the ethical rules take up the issue of how this Rules provides for the five sessions of the Supreme Council. And as for Mr. Stepanov, I want to point out that this is a very dangerous position for him. I don't know, did I ask him on a faction yesterday who he wanted to work with if he wasn't seen on the team he wanted to work with? He wants to build his ministry and be independent of the team he's working on, what decisions will he make? To whom will they be counted? So I think Mr. Secretary will have the willpower, and he will make a decision that will correspond to the decision that the team has taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u115	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. Stefani's? Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, I'm probably going to start my speech right now with the doctors who are so upset about Stepanov's throat today that it seems to be protecting him. I have a report from the Court of Auditors that says that the funds allocated to the salaries of doctors struggling with COVID have not even been used by the Ministry of Health by 35 percent. So we don't have to tell you that everyone around us is guilty -- the Supreme Council, the government, and so on. The Ministry of Health with this minister is unable to carry out his duties. I think every single one of you here in this room has relatives, acquaintances or loved ones who have suffered from the Coronavirus or have died. And while the volunteers were falling off their feet, and you and I seemed to buy oxygen concentrates, on the planet of Mr. Stephen's oxygen was nowhere to be found, he was fine. And when he promised us in the summer that we would become one of the first countries to receive vaccines, today, well, it's just a smile: we're the last place in Europe today, we have 2.2 percent of the population vaccinated, Kenya has already driven us, Zimbabwe and neighboring Belarus. Colleagues, I'd like to speak to you more humanly. I understand that he promises you gold mountains, money, someone to treat abroad, and so on. But health and life are things that each of you will ever touch or touch. If you press the button now, you're going to press the button for life or death, because 500 Ukrainians died every day in the spring when this person wasn't able to provide us with oxygen and vaccines. So let us all unite today so that our Ministry of Health will finally work to stop lying, attacking people, criticizing MPs, and accusing us of our failures. So I urge you all to think very hard when you press the button. I know you're under pressure, please don't be afraid, this man will go away sooner or later, let him go now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u117	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. A kiss? Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". The Coronavirus pandemic is a disaster, it's a challenge, and it's a test of ability, working effectively for all governments of all nations. This is also a complex challenge for the Ukrainian government and especially for the Ministry of Education. Of course, you and I can say that the Ministry, especially the Ministry's management, did not sit down and put their hands together during that period. They've probably been trying, but there's "but" there's underwork. Malpractice for vaccination, underdevelopment of oxygen supply, underdevelopment of the salaries of our medical staff. The cost of such underwork is almost 50,000 of the lives of our Ukrainians. The cost of such underwork is also a loss to the families of our small, honest entrepreneurs. The cost of these underwork is also the gaps in our young people’s education. The consequences of these underwork are that Ukraine does not even enter hundreds of countries at vaccination rates, and if it wasn't for the self-sacrifice of our medical heroes, it's probably scary to imagine what would happen. Now you and I have been through the third moment of the pandemic. And this is already the time for analysis and conclusions to begin the rapid preparations for the likely next wave and to go through with as little as possible losses for the health of Ukrainians and losses for our country’s economy. So take a good look at the Ministry’s management work and draw conclusions by voting here in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u119	Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Then we vote. Please invite the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u120	Anton Polyakov, Chernigovishte. We've just heard some of Mr. Stepanov's lies, because I've counted that even the money we've allocated would not be enough to buy and pay for all the vaccines he's called 42 million doses. And given that the prices there are too high and all the vaccines are bought through corruption schemes, because of the lining companies, it's an even bigger lie. About Mr. Stepanov. I personally have a question that he promised me. First. This is about what he promised to develop a mechanism for funding psychiatric services. He promised not to allow the closure of medical facilities, the release of doctors, and medical personnel. And we know that more than 50,000 medical personnel were released during the pandemic in Ukraine. Where is your promise made, Mr. Stepanov? For example, after vaccination, another moment. We know that not only do we have a front in the east right now, but doctors have their front. But neither the doctors nor the military are properly provided with vaccines. For example, only 15,000 of the 250,000 were vaccinated by the military. These are abnormal indicators for a warring country. As for all the ministers we're releasing today. My personal vision is that these ministers are not to be held by you, not by you, not by you, not by you, but by giving them suspicions and real terms and putting them in jail with their President Greensky and with all those who have been told how they should be from the "Serve of the People" as they should not be. These are the ones that were on audio recordings with Yusik when they were trying to crack some kind of force in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Because the entire nation of Ukraine voted that this should never happen again. For two years you, along with your ministers and with your Kabmin, have been weary of all Ukrainians. Shame on you! Zelenski is the first president to receive a real prison term along with his team.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. The committee recommended that the Supreme Council decide by voting in the Hall on the matter. According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, I am voting for the release of Stepanov Maxim Volodymyrovich from the post of Ukrainian Minister of Health. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:58:23]] For 292 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 203, "Response Platform for Life" – 10, "European Solidarity" – 25, "Fathership" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 18, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 6. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
