ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u1	Let's get to work. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Dear colleagues, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Renewal of State Service and Other Questions of State Service (Registration No. 4531) with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 18 February 2021. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Please register. [[12:05:43]] There are 295 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. Mesenchev Maria Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, a moment of your attention, please. I would like to bring us all back in 2015 on the same winter day of February when three civilians, one policeman, were killed in Kharkiv during a peaceful walk. And I would like to mention these harpians today, one of whom was a minor. I would like you and I to mention the leader Igor Tolmachev, who was 52 years old, was killed on the spot. Vadim Ribalchenka, 37-year-old head of the Pervomayan Air Force, a police officer from Kharkiv who came to protect the peace movement. Danila Didik was only 15 years old, and he died the next day, his heart stopped beating. And also Mikola Melniczuk, a student of the Academy of Kharkiv Urban Agriculture, his heart stopped beating on February 24, 15. Dear colleagues, these heroes, not only the harkians, but everyone else, have given their lives to work with you today for the benefit of our country. Glory to Ukraine! And please remain silent for a moment. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u3	Another statement was made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished voters! Green and its government continue to turn the country into a washbasin. The country in which industrial production and agriculture have fallen continues for 18 months in a row! The country where the government debt over the past year and a half increased by $8 billion, to $90 billion. A country whose GDP has fallen to 62 percent of GDP since the 1990s. The country, which is totally raw, in the commodity structure of export, with 74 percent being raw materials, agriculture, junk and so on. The land of total poverty. A country where, on the one hand, the minimum wage is paid. The minimum pension is 1 thousand 769 dollars, and on the other hand, the Supervisory Boards pay 588,000 dollars a month. The country of the tariff genocide. A land where in January the pensioner in Kiev accounts for 5,000 for utility bills! And that's because he has a grant of 2500 and a pension of 2,000 -- 4.5 thousand and a utility of 5,000! Here's what country. And I want to draw attention to the outflow of foreign direct investment, to the reduction of transit, to quotas of 300,000 for Ukrainian labour migrants. Of the 100 dead, 48 are born. And a lot of other things. These are the results of President Greensky's work and his second Cabinet of Ministers. And that's why in the country today, the President's ratings are so low. Not the opposition, not the opposition TV channels, not the COVID-19 anymore, but the idleness of the Cabinet of Ministers and the inconvenient policy of the Cabinet. For three weeks now, three independent TV channels have been closed: 112 Ukraine, NewsOne and ZIK. Where did our tariffs go down? Where did our pensions grow? What wages do we have to increase? And that means that "The Opposition Platform for Life" is the same thing that came under sanctions, which means that not in these subjects of wine, but in front of President Greensky and his ministers, who are leading the country to bankruptcy, should resign. Today's opposition platform for life urges you to change your economic policy, change your social policy, change your tariff policy. And you haven't heard from us for the last year and a half, but today, listen, if the authorities can't bring tariffs into line, change the economic situation in industry, in employment, in other matters, get out and retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we have a further discussion. There is a statement of a real break, but colleagues insist that during the consideration of the bill (registration number 453) there be not only statements by the reporter, questions by the rapporteur, statements by the committee, as envisaged, but also statements by MPs and groups, three minutes from each faction. Is there no objection? Then we simply do not take a break and follow such a procedure. You don't? Okay. Then, dear colleagues, let us move on to the subject. You are invited to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Renewal of State Service Competitions and Other Issues of State Service, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 18.02. 2021. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend. The report is in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine supports all the basic provisions on Bill 4531, in particular the re-establishment of public service competitions that have been suspended temporarily for a period of quarantine, as well as the lifting of additional grounds for the release of state officials, the so-called political layoffs. At the same time, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 16, 2021, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of public service contracts and other matters of public service (registration number 4531) cannot be signed by the Head of State on the basis of this. The law proposes to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Act "On central executive authorities", stating that: if the minister's office is vacant, it is also prohibited to place on the first deputy and deputy minister the duties defined in the relevant paragraphs of article 8; if the minister's office is vacant for more than 60 days, there is also a prohibition on placing on the first deputy, the deputy minister of certain duties of the minister; and to prohibit the appointment of a minister to a person whose candidature has been rejected by the Supreme Council of the current appointment. In this way, according to the President of Ukraine, there is a threat that Parliament may self-deliver itself from exercising constitutional powers for the appointment of the Prime Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, allowing for a period when the minister's office is vacant and the appointment of the first Deputy Minister and Deputy Minister only to perform certain duties with defined articles. Failure by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a long time to decide on the appointment of a minister will inevitably paralyse the activities of the relevant central executive body in shaping and implementing State policy in a defined area. The approach proposed by law violates the constitutional principles of the formation and functioning of state authority, whereby the state authorities in Ukraine exercise their powers within the limits established by the Constitution of Ukraine and in accordance with the law of Ukraine. Second position. The fact that the authorities, their officials, are obliged to act only on the basis and within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. And a series of other constitutional provisions. The Cabinet of Ministers is a higher body in the executive system. The Cabinet of Ministers consists of the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister and the Ministers. According to the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the provisions of the Constitution, which determine the scope and content of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, can only be detailed at the level of the laws of Ukraine. However, such detail cannot distort or go beyond the provisions of the Constitution. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine notes that although the legislative, executive, and judicial authorities are independent within the limits of their respective powers, the stability of the constitutional system is achieved by a clear system of interlocking and countering. The division of power over the legislative, executive, and judicial branches provides for their close interaction. Under the Constitution, the State is responsible for its activities. In addition, the law signed contains a number of technical and legal shortcomings, namely, the Final and Transitional Positions, which are proposed to delay the entry into force of provisions that are not in place. Then, the President of Ukraine cannot agree with the proposed law on the organization of the Ministry’s activities when the minister’s office is vacant. He therefore suggests: in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of section 1 of the Act, that the following sentence be deleted: "If the minister's office is vacant, it shall be prohibited to place on the first Deputy Minister and Deputy Minister of the Minister's duties as defined in paragraphs 5, 7, 8, 9, 12, 12 Prime Minister. Part two of article 8 of this law. If the minister’s office is vacant for more than 60 days, it is prohibited to place on the first deputy minister, the deputy minister of the duties of the minister defined in paragraphs 1 (except the head of the ministry), 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 12 of the provisions, 14, 15, 21, 24, 27 of the second part of article 8 of this Law, and paragraphs 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 21 of the second part of article 18 of this Law. It is forbidden to impose the duties of minister on a person whose appointment as minister was rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the current appointment. ” And the second one proposed by the President. In section II, paragraph 1, “Ending and transitional positions”, the words “except paragraphs 4 and 5 of paragraph 1 of section I of this Act, which take effect 60 days from the date of publication of this law” shall be deleted. Dear colleagues, please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u7	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter - in 15 minutes: one minute - for a question, two minutes - for an answer. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u8	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please give the word Coltunovich Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u9	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u10	Dear rapporteur, I would like to point out that, in our view, it is inappropriate for the President to comment on these proposals to the already-voted bill that was in Parliament, that, for example, we had a negative practice that the performer, for example, Uljana Suprun, had three years -- no responsibility, nothing. Today, after twice a specific person, Mr. Vitrek, without programs, without indicators, without any accounting, Parliament has not supported his candidacy twice, has tried such amendments and proposals to implement the draft law. How do you appreciate such steps? And is it appropriate to do so in today’s situation when energy is in such a dire state, when municipal tariffs are rising, do we need to break under a specific person’s knee the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the legislative field of Ukraine? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u11	Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich, you know my position and the position of President of Ukraine, we never talk about what the law is written under any particular name or political preference. The law must always be the act that regulates an institution. At the same time, when we see that the series of amendments that are being introduced into the legislative field today is in fact a subjective view of certain processes in the State and make it impossible for the President to form and carry out public policy, he is certainly forced to respond. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are no other provisions of the law relating to the question of re-establishment of competitions from the abolition of the political layoffs that are currently in law, the President is not making his proposals, he is asking for correction only to the inadequacy allowed by the legislators, which makes it impossible to apply this law. So given this, I'm asking you to support, and now the human rights issues, as far as you know, are no longer subject of the law, and they are voted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u12	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u13	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u14	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u15	Thank you for your answer, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. And the second question will be the following, but first the comment. I voted for that amendment that you said was "inappropriate." It is, in our view, absolutely essential and right. Since twice a specific candidature is not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is not supported by Parliament to lead the appropriate profile office, but specifically by Mr. Vitrenk. Today, why are we both against, and our faction will not vote in favour of these amendments, because we do not support his candidacy, we do not support his course. And so today, it is the President's proposal to abolish that very standard in order to empower him as a performer to actually give the minister the authority to sign any information and so on. From this point of view, this option is unacceptable to us. And our question will be the next. What are you going to do if, for example, a similar situation arises in another ministry, we're going to re-adopt with the President's proposals for a specific act of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u16	Thanks again for asking. I'll go back to where I started the next time. Neither in the President's proposals nor in any other matter relating to this bill has any reference to any subject concerned. The President's position is clear and clear. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as an executive body, cannot be held hostage to issues that form nuances about the abuse of appropriate positions. It's about general political nuances. Now for legal issues. I think it's great that we all voted in favour of this amendment in the paper that was bugged by the reporter, but as a result, we got the fact that there was no crash under the corresponding paragraphs, and in fact we got some kind of legislative rule that we have today to postpone the provisions of this law that there is no law in itself. Moreover, writing this non-breakable clause allows for certain abuses and for the definition of another legal fact, this fact, which is called "the moment of vacancy". That's why, given this, and accordingly, that we have a lack of legislative activity, the President, I stress, not by deferring it at the time, but on the same day after the bill was passed to him, sent it to the Supreme Council so that the Supreme Council can do this one piece of legislative inadequacy. However, once again, I must ask you to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to correct, ensure the quality and effectiveness of current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u17	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u18	I'd like to give the floor to Mr. Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u19	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the whole country has seen experiments in public service conducted over the last five to seven years. Based on the experiments, these pseudocontests have led to a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and I have a question: does the authorities today not see that the current system of competitions does not work, does not work? These pseudocompetitions have ruined the public ministry. The same is true of supervisory councils that today simply imitate the supervision of state-owned enterprises and, in fact, under the cover of embassies, foreign representatives have become the same thieves who steal and destroy these state-owned enterprises. So why don't you solve the issue and go back to the normal system when the state actually managed human resources policy, the government's decisions were made by people, the decisions of the Supreme Council were made without these pseudocontests? And why don't you get rid of these foreign oversight boards that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u21	Thank you. The great Victor Vasilovich, the system of government management, it's an extremely complex mechanism, and here I completely agree with you. At the same time, I think we're all aware that we should choose the model that would, on the one hand, ensure a high level and quality of persons who enter the public service and, on the other hand, ensure transparency of selection to one institution or another. And so it seems to me that the very issues involved in the public contests are really the mechanism that provides a very quality second element. We can discuss with you some aspects of the public service selection, and there are many of them. But then let's just define these questions with you, and you and I, as the subject of the legislative initiative, will introduce a bill of our authorship, where we can fix things where you personally see abuse by some, maybe imperfections or other, things that will require the quality of this bill. As far as oversight counsel is concerned. You know, once again, different countries have different approaches to the activities of such oversight councils. But our task with you as parliamentarians is to ensure that the same efficiency and transparency in the work of the Supervisory Boards are ensured, if they exist. We did not adopt legislation on supervisory advice. But let's talk about it too. For my part, you know, I've already passed a bill repeatedly that forces information to be made about the number of wages and what they're made for. Let's support it together and go the way of openness to this information. And then after openness, we'll understand the effectiveness and coefficient of the beneficial action of a supervisory board. So I'm also totally reaching out to you here. Let's think about this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u22	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u23	Please give it to Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u24	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u25	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's be honest that the president's remarks have two elements. Ingredient first. It is to remove Parliament from the influence of the Cabinet of Ministers by creating eternal centuries that will carry out their duties and, in fact, on a permanent basis. It's kind of a "sporunization" of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All will be Suprun, all will be performing duties. That's the first one. And the second. Let's be honest, this president's observation has a specific name, whatever you're saying right now. It's called Yuri Vitrenko. It is for his own sake that this law is being imposed. Just as the previous president was penetrating the law for a specific Attorney-General without legal education, so you are now penetrating a specific law to remove Parliament from the influence of the Cabinet of Ministers. But I have a question about something else. Who put the President first on this legal case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u26	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, once again, we have the glory of God in the state to express our opinion, our vision according to our knowledge, skills, and skills. I'll say it again. I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt, I didn't scream from the rostrum, I listened very carefully. Now, about what you said in your speech. I underline once again that the legal basis for the President of Ukraine's proposals for a bill imposed by the veto of the President of Ukraine has been implemented within and in the manner provided for by the Ukrainian law. The President of Ukraine, on the basis of this, made clear his position on the basis of its position in the Constitution of Ukraine, which relates to issues related to the impossibility of usurping any authority entrusted to him, in addition, to the positions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the balance of restraints and the contradictions of all branches of power. So the veto is prescribed according to legal norms, and it doesn't contain any questions or references to any last name. In addition, I would like to point out and point out that the President of Ukraine is opposed to the formation of state policy, based on the names and approaches. He's interested in the balance of the work of institutions, and that's what the veto is about, because, according to the President of Ukraine, that version of the law that was passed on to him for signature, he has a legal gang out of these issues just on this nuance. And he took advantage of his laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, and he made his proposals to form and support them in the hall. So, with your permission, once again on behalf of the President of Ukraine, I am also asking you to support the President's proposals and allow me to unlock all the competitions and all the other issues that apply to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u27	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u28	Please give Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u29	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, President Zelenski, if he cares about the staffing structure of the government, he has the right to submit two human resources ministers. And what we see is that the Secretary of Defense today is famous, except that by finding out the relationship with the Chief of General Staff, he's sending endless checks to the front and he can't make public identification, so who today has a debt to the army, either the IMF or the Ministry of Finance. Then you will advise, as a representative of the President in the Parliament of Zelenski, to review his minister immediately in office of the Ministry of Defence. But we have to remind ourselves that we are a parliamentary-presidential republic, and twice the President, in fact, gave a slap to Parliament when the Parliament did not support Vitrenk's candidacy as a minister of profile, but he was appointed as acting. And now, in fact, we're offered the same kind of slap on Parliament when Parliament voted by 289 votes in favour of an amendment to the appropriate impossibility of such a bypass of Parliament in terms of staffing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u31	Thank you. I can answer that, can't I? Dear Irina Volodymyr, you know very well that the issue of the nomination of the Minister of Defence and Minister of Foreign Affairs is the sole competence of the President of Ukraine. And I think he is sure to exercise his right if there are grounds that he will consider necessary. With regard to other issues related to your comments on the quality of the bill. I emphasize once again, the President of Ukraine supports all the provisions of the bill that he has been handed over to him for signature, except for two, which simply as a result of what was the proper rush in the room, they are legally imperfect and make it impossible to apply these provisions in practice. And once again, those positions that are prescribed, they are first of all flaws in legal and technical nature, because in "Transitional positions" they are sent to positions that are not in the law itself. And secondly, they make it impossible to process, let's say, to retain the institutional capacity of the Cabinet of Ministers as a separate government authority. And we need to understand, once again, by referring to the decision of the Constitutional Court, by referring to the Constitution of Ukraine, that only if laws adhere to a system of restraints and opposites of all branches of power can they be supported by society. Because it's called a legislative balance. And that position, it exists in all of the civilized world. So, with your permission, let me also ask you to support the position of the President of Ukraine on taking his proposals into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u32	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Question time's up. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Our Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexandrovitch Razumkova, at its meeting on 19 February 2021, to consider the proposal of the President of Ukraine to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of public service and other matters of public service, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 February 2021, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with parts 4 and 5 of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept all proposals by the President of Ukraine for law and to adopt legislation in general. In the event of the adoption of all proposals by the President of Ukraine and the law as a whole, propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust the committee in preparing the text of the law for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to say a few words from myself, not from the committee, using the time that still exists. Indeed, this question is important. But we have to understand that right now we're not doing it fully, this is an interim measure that will allow us to unlock those processes that are going through the Ministry of Energy, in particular. And you and I have a responsibility to develop a system decision on a situation where, for some reason, a minister is either retired or unappointed, and the Supreme Council is unable to appoint another minister at this point. And we need to understand that the mechanisms of the solution can be different. There may be a so-called distribution of powers, when the minister's powers are partially exercised by the Cabinet, they are partially carried out, for example, by the Prime Minister. There are other mechanisms for the distribution of powers. We're doing all of this in our Committee of State, and we're going to propose to our colleagues soon as changes to the Cabinet of Ministers laws, and we now have a lot of these laws. So please support the President's proposals today. What's more, considering once again that the main purpose of the law is to restore public service competitions, and in this part, the President has fully agreed with the editorial that we have voted with you, and with regard to the terms of the contests, and with regard to certain nuances, and with regard to the exclusion of an article for political release, so-called 87 prime, which has already, in fact, accumulated the oscim. The National Service Agency, the presence of Mrs. Alushina here, they're waiting, they've already prepared, in fact, for tomorrow, the competitions can be announced, and we'll go back to the state that she's supposed to be in, with transparent competitions, with a competitive component, and with the fact that, first and foremost, categories "A" are top officials, and those 300,000 officials across Ukraine are really the people who deserve it. Request to support the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u34	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is the only country in the world that has canceled all competitions under COVID. She canceled to hand-deliver her needy ministers, bureaucrats, and also to have her own "hand" courts. And today, the "hand" court in Odessa sentenced Sergey Sternenko. He was shut down right out of the courtroom. They've locked up in S.I.A. And do you know what the charge was based on? In the testimony of one so-called pro-Russian activist, the Family, who had been hiding for five years from court. And by reading the material of the case, he was in parallel in two places: where he was kidnapped, and elsewhere. It's a forgery. Because a week ago there was supposed to be an acquittal. The judge was pressed, and the judge on the hook, because he's handmade. In the 17th year, he released the base director, who burned down and where people died. He released such a person from the courtroom, and Sergio Sternenka closed charges based on pro - Russian connections and pro - Russian claims. This is a rematch of Russian forces in Ukraine. Full rematch. And this rematch has three names. The first is Vendiktova, the second is Tatarov and the third is Truhanov. Because these people are behind the imprisonment of an activist whose charge is totally falsified. These are Zelensky’s first prisoners. Zelensky’s political prisoners And I urge you not to stand outside. Today there's going to be a 20-hour action at Bankowy to get President Zelensky to open his eyes and see a rematch of the pro-Russian forces, see that we're being shut down, not by the hands of people who die, but by those who fight for Ukraine and who fought for Odessa in their own time when they tried to capture the pro-Russian forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u36	Alexandre Yuriovno, let's do it on the subject next time, because it's not going to happen. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u37	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, in this room we are gathered only for the sake of a simple job, a miner, to vote on this bill. If we weren’t here today, we would be starving again within a week. But I want to point out that it's Donetsk and Lugansk Region, Volinsk Region, Kirovograd Region, that they're not just mining areas, they're built for that industrial base. And today these people have been deprived of virtually constitutional law, and a million people have not been able to vote, and the President has already signed an order for 18 military and civilian administrations. Do you know what happens in these military and civilian administrations? I have already spoken, not personally, but some kind of abominable drinker every day, bullying people, assigning the same alkachi to Sevierodonetsky and Lysicánsk, robbing billions of bracelets, and today the authorities run on emweephs with outstretched hands and knees. In your country, in our country, look for the money of the environmental fund, look for 465 million dollars of Severodonetska, 267 million lissicanska. I have on more than one occasion addressed this rostrum to President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine to immediately assign audits to all military and civil administrations. Here, on the other hand, they are even more appointed. I understand if you're on the border with LNR and DNR. How can elections today be avoided within 60 kilometers of the delimitation zone? People are suffering, people today have collected 100,000 signatures to remove the governor, the head of the military and civil administration not only from Luhansk region, but also from Severerodonetsky and Lysicánsk. To get them out of the way, and to get them out of the way, not just to get them out of their jobs, but to get them out of the way, to do an audit on the issue of 22 billion dollars today, environmental and technological catastrophes. As many times as you can repeat from this rostrum: there is no water, no kindergartens are closed, schools are closed, hospitals are closed, people are released, areas are abused, Lugansk and Donetsk regions, many suffering areas, depressed zones. To what time is this happening in a country that is now at war but is at war with its citizens in Ukraine? Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. I think the President will hear us after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u38	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u39	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! This is a vital issue of the holding of these public officials’ responsibilities competitions. It would seem that everyone understands what has happened in the last five years. How many times does everyone go to the towers, they say that this system, which is imposed on us from abroad by embassies, emveephs and so on, doesn't work, basically broke the public service. Take a look at the ministries: 70-90 percent of the personnel that have been prepared, some of them have started working in Soviet times, some under their leadership in the last 10-15 years, they've practically all gone out of work today and have no chance of coming back and making peace in the country. Why don't they have a chance? Because the pseudocontest system that was created has made such a selection that only those people who are in need of embassies today, the IMF, and who will be mild and will carry out teams from abroad, and not think about their own country. We encourage you to think about what's really going on. This law can be put to the vote simply to give the government today a little order and someone to appoint. But he doesn't solve the question at all. In general, we have to cancel this disgraceful system, give the President, the government, the Parliament a direct right to appoint heads of ministries, departments, central authorities, to be able to appoint heads of strategic enterprises by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, and then in a month or two, we can put order in the country, and then this staff of the Guard will end. And you don't have to do competitions where the courts go after six months, the candidates judge each other, the ministries judge the candidates if they don't go through the people they needed, and so on. That's all there is to it. And the second part of the question that I keep talking about. Supervisory boards are also a personnel issue of the state. You've done the supervisory boards of all state-owned enterprises today, you've done the supervisory boards of the ministries, and so on, you've filled with foreigners who sit for crazy millions of dollars, they don't do anything, they've robbed the country, they've touched on the economy of Ukraine, they've touched on these state-owned enterprises, and they've essentially stopped the development of these state-owned enterprises. In fact, these people today block the same personnel assignments, block the structure from being brought into order and the return of control in every field. These people are parasites. So I think the authorities need to make decisions and instead of making empty laws that just temporarily decide something, sit down and think about it. Stop! Stop, my friends! Take the authority into your hands, clean up these laws and direct assignments, put the staff order in the country, then there'll be order in a month or two. Our MPs are willing to take on such a responsibility and do so. Listen to what we're telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u40	Mom? Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u41	Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! I want to say that the authorities will do whatever they can to prevent (a) from running job competitions, blocking, assigning who is needed. And also in the future, if the contest is not a competition, but a performing one, we understand, in fact, the irresponsibility of what is being done in our country. "The Opposition Platform for Life" is not going to support this bill, because I want to see what kind of speculation there would be in this bill, including voting for the law, because they won't pay the miners money. We all understand, everyone heard, this is the rostrum. But what I want to point out is that if the Cabinet of Energy Ministers took direct subordination, and the government mines out of 30 there are actually 20 workers and actually miners around 40,000, it is still necessary to take the state decision to take direct subordination, take production and pay the wages they have earned, and there will be absolutely no problems. I want to point out that one story is the cornerstone of this bill. This is the committee's amendment, which was accepted, that as a candidate who was not supported by the Supreme Council, we will not stick our fingers, be human and perform the duties of a minister of the Cabinet of Ministers or another official. We all understand who this is, but this amendment is still, and it's blocked the signing of this bill. The bill provided: (a) the opening of competitions. The Supreme Council has already given power over two months to hold 6 months of competitions, but that's not enough. We will not support the initiative because this leads to the conclusion of law enforcement. Everyone, remember the State Bureau of Investigation Act, the director is not a year and a half old. What have they done to fulfill their responsibilities? The president assigned a responsibilities for two months and, in fact, a six - year - long assignment. The manager cannot be assigned and the commission can run. We're going back the same way. We will not support the initiative of the Supreme Council to take responsibility, to open the sleazebagum under its responsibilities, and to all lies. We need to read the law and then vote afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u42	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u43	Dear representatives of the official faction, I remember when you went to power, you said you would speak honestly with society. Let's talk honestly about what's going on in the Supreme Council right now. We all know that twice in the Supreme Council for the support of the President was Mr. Vitrek's candidacy, in fact, the second Prime Minister of the country, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy. You know that the Supreme Council has failed this candidacy twice. Why? Because this person, according to the State Audit, has been leading the Naftogaz NAC for five years and has left the country, from the Naftogazu NAC, 225 billion dollars of corruption gear. This is a high-level corrupter, this is Yuri Vitrenko. The Supreme Council has not supported him twice. Twice, the president urged him and put him in this position. Now that this has not happened, and certainly in this room will not happen the holding of Vitrek as the second prime minister of the country, this is the First Vice Prime Minister. Then the President decided to introduce a bill that we now hold with you, which he predicts should no longer be followed by the Constitution of Ukraine, but should simply, well, in an abrupt manner, assign a fulfilling duty to life with a full range of powers, not passing through Parliament. That is, if Parliament, including a dominant faction, has not missed corruptionist Vitrenko, who has awarded himself 170 million dollars and has transferred to his accounts for the fact that there has been corruption, if it has failed, then the President is extending it to this position today's law, directly violating the Constitution. This will mean that this person will be performing duties without the approval of the Supreme Council, this person will continue to engage in corruption as he has done in previous years, and this person will have a full range of powers to carry out his corruption. Instead of breaking a criminal case against him, it's like "the spring will come-- we'll plant it," and he's being put in the First Deputy Prime Minister's office right now. Dear friends, this directly contradicts the Constitution, directly contradicts European practice. Then forget the path to Europe. The power distribution ends, these are balances and contradictions, and big corruption begins in the government of Ukraine. Do you want to consecrate this with your vote? Then take the responsibility and you'll see for yourself who's involved in bringing corruption back to power, and we're going to the Constitutional Court and we're voting against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u44	Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u45	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, much has been mentioned by our President, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelensky, who has appointed the personalities that have been here. But you have to remind everyone that this is a manipulation of other factions because it's a Kabmin. We chose the Prime Minister with you, so we have a responsibility with you. You have to remind everyone who's in this room to understand why you're here. We need to remember and be grateful not only that we are here with you in law enforcement, but also that we are making the legal activity faithful. I am one of the initiators of Law 4531. Its purpose is to reinstate public service competitions suspended temporarily for a period of quarantine established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 and within 30 days of the withdrawal of this quarantine. By adopting the change to the 2020 budget for the suspension of competitions, we have considered this issue as a temporary measure to preserve life, health, both for competitors and for those who run these competitions. At the same time, given the long-term quarantine that has weakened in us, it has become more severe, on December 16, the number of vacant posts in the State Service category "A" – 123, categories "B" – over 4,000, categories "B" – over 12.5 thousand. In addition, the bill we initiated suggested that additional grounds for the dismissal of civil servants, so-called "political layoffs", should be abolished within 4 months of the appointment of the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council accepted the bill’s proposal and approved it in the first reading. During the second reading of the bill, amendments were introduced that prompted remarks by the President of Ukraine, who took advantage of his veto right to Ukrainian law. Therefore, honourable colleagues, by initiating these amendments, please support this law. Such legal corrections are correct, they are clear. And so I ask you to support and not sabotage. When MPs came out of logic to stimulate why they were accepted. To encourage the Prime Minister not to delay the submission of the relevant nominations for the office of a ministry. Honorary colleagues, the Committee of Government, Local Government, Regional Development and Urbanization at its February 19th meeting, reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine and approved the decision to support them fully. Please support this bill and the regulation of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u46	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u47	Dear Ukrainians, if there wasn't a Coronavirus, Greensky's team should have invented it, because the pandemic can be written down by all its disadvantages and problems in the economy, and the Great Stealing Project, created specifically under the pandemic, and here's this staffing horde, and the canceling of the contests. Because the personnel policy of Zelensky and the team is zero professionalism and the key is loyalty. And that's what the competition is about. This week, Zelensky declared an ambitious goal – to become a member of the European Union by the end of the decade. But only in fact is everything done to get us away from the European Union, because the public service is one of the key tasks of bringing us closer to the European Union. And by doing so, the European Union has given 2 million technical assistance to the bill. In fact, you have eliminated, in fact, state institutions in order to simply remove Parliament in general from making decisions, to become a voluntary branch of the Bank that decides with the oligarhat, so who will be Ukrainian ministers. And it's a shame that already the government of the Green Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't actually appoint, but it just pushes the buttons for the candidatures that lower the oligarchs in line with the Bank. Actually, it's happening right now. And Zelensky has already twice slapped today's parliament to show that you're all just green buttons, and zero counts the position of parliament that refused to appoint Mr. Vitrenk as minister. Thus, they are now simply trying to eliminate Parliament’s influence on the appointment of ministers through their responsibilities. And so, of course, we urge Parliament to remind Banka that we are a parliamentary-presidential republic. I want to address Parliament's leadership, the Head of the Supreme Council. It's a week's work in the districts. And the first thing the voters want to know is what's going on in the defense sector? Why isn't there a V.C.C.C. on Wagnerians today? Why is there no order in the day - to - day law on collaborationism? We can close the TV channels, the Kremlin's telescopics, but that's exactly how tomorrow can be opened if this law is not passed. And from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, some "fifth column" can degrade the Dignity Revolution, and that's a zero response. The electorate is interested in tariffs. The voters want to know where Pfizer is promised, and why we're being brought a dumpster instead of a vaccine, you know? But these questions are not discussed in the order of the day. We have a story going on here today -- how do we hire Vitrenk? How can we remove Parliament from human resources policy at all? That's what this is about. And under this, MPs are being gathered from the districts today, taken away from them the right to communicate with the electorate, to host the election, and to decide in general the issues that are relevant to society, only to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Alexander Sergiyovich, I'd like to see you on the right-hand side. Now they're going to take into account, if you'll excuse me, the confirmation of the bill, two Presidential rulings. I think, Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm going to give you 30 seconds each of them to express your position, and we're going to vote. First, one amendment is voted, then the second amendment is voted on, then voted on as a whole. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the President proposes to delete a few sentences from paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the chapter, which will result in the wording of section 4 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Central Executive Authorities, as follows: "4. The First Deputy Minister, the Deputy Minister, is responsible for the execution of the mandate of government officials and employees of the Ministry's apparatus and its territorial bodies (in the event of creation). The proposal is considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u50	Ready to vote? The committee's proposal is taken into account. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. Amendment number one. [[13:00:51]] For 266 Decision taken. Amendment number 2, Alexander Sergiyovich, very short, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u51	It's very short in here. She's responding with a previous correction, to remove the inaccuracies, we had it in "The Ends." It doesn't change the meaning of the law at all. The committee has counted, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-23-m0.u52	I'll bet you vote number two. Please support and vote. [[13:01:33]] For 267 Decision taken. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Have a seat. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the President's proposals, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Renewal of State Service and Other Questions of State Service, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 18.02. 2021 (registration number 4531) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:02:23]] For 267 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "Party for the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 17, "non-factional" – 6. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
