ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:03:35]] There are 116 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National MPs, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the Conciliation Council, a proposal was adopted by the deputy factions and groups to hear on the "hour of questions to the Government" information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of protection of the state border of Ukraine with the Republic of Belarus and the opposition of a potential crisis on the state border of Ukraine with illegal migrants. Dear colleagues, the following is proposed: a report by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on a specific subject – up to 20 minutes, an answer to questions from MPs and groups – up to 21 minutes, the Prime Minister and government members' replies to questions from Ukrainian national deputies - to 20 minutes. There will be no objection, then. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski, is invited to report to the rostrum. Please, Denise Anatolyevich, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Ukrainians, Russia's migration crisis on the Polish-Belarusian border is ongoing today. All over the world, it was finally understood that this crisis was created artificially and it was managed by the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. Thousands of migrants are trying to break the border of Poland, accompanied by Belarusian military forces. We've seen this in dozens of videos published every day by people who are there. By now, 12 Polish law enforcement officers and border guards had been injured. But this is just the first stage of this special operation. The second and next depends on the reaction of the world community, primarily the EU and NATO. We can predict that the Kremlin will try to use a destabilizing situation to the full and to cause maximum reputational damage to both the European Union and our state. So we don't rule out that there's a possibility that Russia will take a targeted pass through Belarus to our territory of a large number of illegal migrants. To prepare for this situation we are preparing systematically and thoroughly, building a system of response to challenges, consolidating public institutions, the public, the international community. I assure all present, the situation along the border with Belarus, which is 1,000 miles [84 km] long, is now controlled and stable. Our key task is to stop and stop the possible mass flow of illegal migrants from entering Ukraine. In close coordination with the Ukrainian intelligence agencies, we've already figured out possible directions for a border break-in by migrants, worked out the most reliable scenarios for the actions of migrants, planned the use of our forces and resources. Please take a look at the corresponding slide. So the length of the Ukrainian border with the Republic of Belarus is 1,000 84 kilometers, which is equal to almost the full length of the Republic of Belarus border with all the countries of the European Union. Yes, with the Republic of Poland it is almost 400 kilometers, with Lithuania 679 kilometers, with Latvia 173 kilometers. We have the longest part of the border with them. Today, we have identified up to ten potentially vulnerable areas, with a total length of about 170 miles [270 km]. To respond properly to the migration crisis, a National Security and Defence Council meeting was held under the chairmanship of President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine. Clearly defined directions and forces, and the means needed to respond adequately to the challenge. What exactly is done? A rapid inspection was carried out, the passporting of the border area from an objective point of view and from a risk perspective, as well as the most vulnerable areas of the state border. Involved in the air force of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are 15 helicopters, 2 planes, 44 drones. Command and staff training last week. This week, where possible scenarios have been worked out, different options have been worked out. In two weeks, field training will take place together with the Ministry of Defence, with other forces and resources to work on the ground, on the border, concrete scenarios of possible resistance to mass influx of migrants. The National Guard and the National Police are now operational under my orders. To protect the state border, we're going to use the echelon-covering tactics of the state border. Yes, the first convoy of echelon will be unarmed, with only protective equipment. In the event of aggressive acts by border violators, the second echelon’s special equipment and weapons are used. And we realize that in the event of threats to the life and health of border guards and law enforcement officials, we will use all appropriate and legally prescribed means of protection, including firearms. I've had enough meetings. The heads of central executives, the National Police, the Guards, the Border Guards, and the Border Guards are working on the border, looking directly at how their forces work near the border. To illustrate: Our goal is not to place border guards at present along the 1,000 - mile [84 km] state border. Our goal is to determine, and they are already defined today, the basic points of formation of the reserve to reach the critical points of the state border that we have identified with you. For 30 to 60 minutes, this is a normative time during which the necessary forces and resources should be transferred after receiving information from our intelligence agencies. Today, the government will create an interdepartmental coordination headquarters to respond to the crisis. He has already started his work, and today his composition will be clearly defined. Determining the deployment of base camps of additional forces and means. And here we are working together with the local authorities, for which I would like to personally thank the governors, the heads of state administrations of the border areas. A set of preventive measures has been developed to prevent provocations, such as timely detection and neutralization of instigators, leaders, other suspicious individuals, and so forth. We are doing this together with our intelligence agencies and the Ukrainian Security Service. Joint trainings are planned, which I have already mentioned, where the Departments of Internal Affairs, the Armed Forces, the Territorial Defence Units, the Public Security Units, that is, all those who have the right and are bound by the law to defend the state border. Aggressor country propagandism will never miss the opportunity to play the card of passion oppression in case of a negative situation. Therefore, we pay special attention to strategic communication and prepare a powerful information campaign. Ukrainian citizens need to understand clearly what is going on, realize all the danger of a potential migration crisis, know how, who and how they will report in the event of illegal migrants being detected in border areas. To inform migrants of the inadmissibility of crossing the state border and illegal behaviour, mobile audio enhancement devices will be used. Also foreseen is the provision of warning texts in Arabic and English through Ukrainian cell - phone operators. The heads of the territorial communities and the national deputies selected in the respective border constituencies and areas are an important link to communication with people. So first of all, I want to address you, colleagues, regardless of party affiliation, we need to unite in the prevention and protection of the state border. In order to protect the state border, we will act as humanely as possible, with respect for all international law regarding illegal migrants, but we will not allow the lives and health of law - enforcement officials and unmotivated aggression by specially active provokers. The assessment of the entire range of risks and threats to migration crises leads us to conclude that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be prepared to consider the introduction of an emergency situation in border areas or border areas of appropriate border areas. There's no need for that right now. The implementation of the above measures will allow us to protect our nation from a provoked external migration crisis and a new form of hybrid aggression. At the same time, we need to understand that today, in fact, we are actually trying to localize the crisis situation on the border by a single tactical action. Most of all, we have to understand that a credible resistance to this aggression is to build a proper state border of Ukraine across the entire length, primarily the border with the Russian Federation, the aggressor country, and the Republic of Belarus. I don't think there's any person in Ukraine today who hasn't convinced us that the very reliable state border, built by an intellectual state border with modern video surveillance systems, can protect us from the many attacks that exist today. What are the modern borders in Europe and the world? I would also like to use this time to take a look at what must be and what the Ukrainian border should be. Please launch slides with a photo of the borders of different countries: the United States, Hungary, Israel, so that national MPs can get better acquainted with this practice. Usually it's a complete fence of nets or wire with a video surveillance system, watchtowers over every 5 to 7 kilometers, where modern optical and thermal observation devices are installed that allow you to see everything that's going on across the border. Countries with a high risk of illegal migrants entering countries where civil war or populations live outside the borders of beggarry are building fences of concrete plates up to six meters high, such as Israel on the border with Palestine, the United States of Mexico, Turkey and Syria. But it must be admitted that such fences, concrete fences, are extremely expensive. Moreover, they are in no way a guarantee of a full - scale military invasion. What challenges should the future Ukrainian intellectual border face, and what should it be? The first is to protect against diversified and intelligence groups from the aggressor state; the second is to protect the Ukrainian economy from smuggling, which is an economic weapon against our state; the third is to protect against flows of illegal migrants, which are also weapons in the modern hybrid war, and in recent months we have seen this as best; the fourth is to prevent the entry into Ukraine of leaders and members of the international organized criminal groups that are also happening today. Taking into account the economic potential of Ukraine after studying the experience of foreign countries, the most rational solution is to build along the entire border or river in the form of a solid fence, a grid and barbed wire with a 100 percent coverage of the border by intellectual video surveillance and signalling systems around the clock. What makes this alarm possible? In fact, the threat of crossing the state border, and today, modern video surveillance systems allow for monitoring and broadcasting of objects at a distance of five to fifteen miles [five km] from the state border along another territory, for displaying such objects, for signalling to border guards, and for 15 minutes by means of a speedy road along the state border. In fact, this way we can clearly and clearly identify and respond to any threats of a smuggling nature, illegal border entry, including the massive movement of migrants that we are discussing today. Along the border with the Russian Federation and Belarus, which are located. The sections of the border area, located in the open area, are seen as suitable for building a four - meter - wide and two - meter - wide anti-transport trench to complicate the breakout of the mechanized troops of the enemy army. Of course, we cannot build a state border simply with desire. We have two critical areas with the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. The total length with the Russian Federation on the ground is 1,000,505 kilometers, of which is 409 kilometers of the occupied border, and, I said, with the Republic of Belarus, that's 1,000,84 kilometers, that's over 2,000 -- 2.5 thousand kilometers of the necessary construction of the state border. In fact, today, this kind of work in the area, the engineering of the modern Ukrainian border is being evaluated and will cost about 17 billion dollars in the areas that I've talked about, namely the border with the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation. Given that the size of the smuggling that revolves around these areas is also calculated by tens of billions of dollars, I think it's a perfectly logical investment today and now. And we'll be able to do that within the next year these two areas. I'm asking you, my dear colleagues, that in the next budget for 2022, and soon there will be a second reading of this document, you have foreseen the necessary funds for setting up the state border. This is the guarantee that we will be safe, our citizens will feel protected, and we will understand that the Ukrainian state has reliable borders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u3	Thank you, Your Honor. Let us turn to questions raised by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine from the MP factions and groups. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Isenka Dmitry Valeriyovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u4	Please hand over Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u5	Please, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u6	Dear Minister, the distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers, colleagues and, above all, our voters, see what double standards are echoing from this rostrum today. You're telling us about certain restrictions from Belarus, and what are you going to do when you import electricity from there? This time. You didn't think that Belarus was one of our key trading and economic partners? See, with you, your exports to Belarus increased by 13 percent this year, imports increased by 58.8 percent in nine months this year. This is one of the major trading and economic and external economic partners, Belarus. What you call an aggressor country, which is the Russian Federation, your data of the State, we have imports from there cut by 19.5 percent this year. So when you do this kind of populist thing, first look at the data from the State Statistics Service. And the question I'm asking is electricity. How will you agree when you plan to build these?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. Today, the theme of my speech and actually the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was the migration crisis. And in answer to your question, I would like to re-examine the video of the opposition to the Polish, Lithuanian border guards, the video of the traumatized migrants, who are consciously, clearly understood, deliberately directed today to state borders with the countries of the European Union. I stressed that we're not excluding the possibility of directing these migrants, but we're talking about thousands of people coming to us from other countries, from Syria, from Iraq, coming here on tour visas with official documents. So they don't appear in the Republic of Belarus, they're not illegal migrants, but their goal is to cross the border illegally with Poland. And we understand that they're being directed today by, unfortunately, special services, including the Russian Federation. So I'm clearly dividing the issues of threats that we see with our eyes that we can see with our eyes. And we are obliged as a government to foreknow and prevent. So today, I have outlined a brief plan of what has already been done, our plans and visions of what will happen, especially the joint learning that will take place. And I think we need to guarantee to the Ukrainian people the ability of today's Ukrainian authorities to provide security that does not come from any side, either from the Russian Federation's aggressor country or from the Republic of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u8	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Denise Anatoliyovich, as far as we know, was considering the issue of the timely allocation of funds to the area of the Ukrainian-Belarusian border. Once again, however, it is clear that it is decided that the current work will take place at the expense of the unused DSS, an organization that is not already burdened by a large budget that is much higher than the money it receives. In particular, as far as I know, 178 million are offered to spend. So I have a question: does this information match reality? If so, do you view this as a faithful management decision? And the second question. Each year it is allocated to the area of the Ukrainian border between 200 and 400 dollars. This year's 286. For comparison, there were half a billion in the 18th year. You said the necessary funds were to be made. I'd like to hear a specific number. What do you need? 500, 600, 700? And do you agree with Minfin that he will find such money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. Your question consists of several parts. First part of the reserve fund. I can tell you that the government has already decided to allocate 21 million dollars to purchase materials for the production of barbed wire for the state border. This is the first decision that has already been made. The second decision will be made today, and this is the cost of the contingency fund. These are not the costs of Ukraine’s State Foreign Service. I agree with you that these days, the State Border Service, as well as other systems of the IMF structure, are underfunded. Let me give you an example. In fact, 85 percent of the total budget of any force pay is wage. In fact, we also know with you that the salary of a junior officer today is between 11,000 and 12,000 dollars maximum. An officer who has come to serve, an officer who understands what he is depriving himself of benefits and guarantees, and so forth. When it comes to setting up the border to invest in the time limit, I'll repeat that this is a number counted. In order to set up a border with the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, this amount is 17 billion dollars, and so it's different from the sums that have been allocated in recent years. Not 300 million or 500 million are enough to build enough. These are just sums to be allocated, to lay the legal groundwork for the construction of land, and so forth. We are talking about the need to build a new state border next year, which will meet all the necessary conditions. The cost of this project is 17 billion dollars. I didn't hear. The 22nd year is planned.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Guzu Igor Volodimirovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u12	Igor Goose, Volin. Mr. Minister, I'd like to express the opinion of all the Volinian Majority deputies, because we're just bordering on the Belarus border. I know you've been directly to Lutsk and abroad. First. You say, support, MPs, our proposals for building fortifications. And we'd like to ask you a question and Mr. Smigal. What's your offer in this budget? You're talking about 17 billion needs, and we want to hear your proposal where you're proposing in this budget. So you don't just have to talk about the need, you have to talk about what you're offering. The other one. If it's billions, there's going to be a lot of questions about abuse. There's a huge request for you as a minister to ensure the transparency of such a maximum of this process that there are no stories, and you know what they were like in the last few years on the construction of the conditional wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. It will allow us to continue to answer the questions of the previous National MP. As to the question. It's formed in a state-of-the-state target programme for the state border, which. Today is a concept approved by the Ukrainian government. The sum of the entire state border is more than 30 billion dollars. Once again, there's a budget demand of 17 billion. Today, the Ministry of Finance has already confirmed that they are ready to allocate funds to the state border next year. What will be the cost, the sufficient amount, is 17 billion dollars, we'll see, including during work, preparation for the second reading of the government budget. You must make the right decision. I'm addressing you today as Minister of Internal Affairs. Because among the many priorities that the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people today, I think, and I believe that building the state border is one of the priorities that we have to do this year. So it's not about millions, it's about billions, it's about billions. But how much, let's see when the budget reaches the walls of the Supreme Council. I am making every effort to ensure that the necessary funds are allocated in the following year. Once again, it's just 17 billion dollars. These costs are to be allocated in part to the Ministry of Infrastructure. Because the construction work on the road, on engineering buildings, is going to be built right through the Ministry of Infrastructure. The Ministry of Internal Affairs will provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u14	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u15	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Denis Anatoliyovich, Minister, may or may not take place. I'd like you to serve as Minister of the Interior. And a few years later, as you report, to be filled, the full session room is primarily by the authorities. I have three questions for you. First. You know that Ukraine ratified the readmission agreement with the European Union. Are we ready for temporary illegal migrants? The second question. You spoke highly of the foreign service. By the way, as the Supreme Council yesterday, we supported the proposal by adopting a bill on this unit of combat. Are you secure, and what are you planning to do, border guards, Nazwardia’s residents, including those who are taking up the service on rotation? And the third question. Retirement of all representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. You asked them four, I'm afraid I won't be able to answer them in two minutes, but we can discuss it later. One: Readmission. The temporary arrivals of foreigners in Ukraine are created, and they exist. Unfortunately, their capacity is not as great as we would like it to be. Today, there are a total of 500 places available at the PTPI. And we already understand today, if there's a negative scenario for a migrant break-in in Ukraine, we're looking at other scenarios for the extra power of the alien residences. With regard to readmission, I can point out that unfortunately, the examples with the Republic of Poland and Lithuania have shown that the Republic of Belarus does not comply with the terms of this agreement, and this agreement does not apply to the issuing and receiving of migrants who crossed the border with Poland and Lithuania. That is why we will have to rely on our own strength and united forces with the European Union. With regard to the Foreigners Act and, in fact, the possibility of using them, I want to thank this room. In fact, yesterday a law was passed that lasted a long time in committee work. Indeed, it was essential for the border guards to understand clearly the boundaries and authority regarding the use of special means. And I am convinced that the President will quickly sign this law for use in the work of the border guards. With regard to other legislative money, they are also necessary. And the government or the national MPs that we work with in this regard, from the profile committee, will come up with the necessary legislative changes to the law. But we're ready within that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kaptielov Roman Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u18	Please pass on the word to Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Kowalczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Alexander Kowalczuk, "Slut of the People" faction, Equinox. Denis Anatoliyovich, I'm representing Equality, so the question that you're talking about right now and what we're hearing is particularly clear about the people who live in my area. So I'll have a few questions, if you'll excuse me. And before that, I want to say literally two words in the form of thanks to you and all the employees of your office, who are subordinated to you, for the work they're doing both in fighting amber and on roads, and all the other positive things that you do. I have a question: which countries do you communicate with and plan your activities in this process of fighting on our border, what is happening now? And whether the border guards are willing to use weapons if necessary, if necessary, because I allow those refugees to be hidden.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that I am personally and the heads of the foreign service, the National Police, the National Guard are in close contact with relevant leaders from the Republic of Poland, particularly with the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Poland, Lithuania, and that is how we communicate. And we're looking forward to meeting soon on the platform of the Ljubljana Triangle right within this initiative to discuss security issues and clear coordination. Even after our discussions today, such coordination is in place. In particular, we agreed that a group of border guards would go to the border with Poland to see how the threats, how this is happening directly on the state border of Belarus and Poland. This visit will take place soon. In fact, about the means they're resisting, I sounded in my report, yes. We think and I want to point out that this is not about refugees, it's about illegal migrants, it's about violators of the state border if they try to violate the state border. So that's the way it's going to be for these people. If we're talking about opposition, I'm going to repeat that it's not about the use of weapons unless it's about threats to the health and life of the border guards, the National Guard and the National Police. But if such a threat arises, then, of course, according to the laws provided for in this situation, all the forces and means needed will be used. It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u22	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u24	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u25	Mr. Minister, it's been weeks since the migration crisis, and you're reporting that the headquarters will be created today. It's some kind of nonsense, to be honest. So I have a question. Yesterday we adopted amendments to the Act on the State Border Service of Ukraine, which expands the possibilities and authorization of protection for the foreign service. How long does it take to bring the legal basis into line with the law, because the six months defined there are clearly critical for a long time? The second question. How many miles out of the 1,000 miles of the Ukrainian-Belarus border have been equipped and regulated over the past two and a half years? And the third question. Why is there no operational reserve for the State of the Border Service, the Nazi Guard and the Army of the Territorial Defense of the U.S.S.U.S.? Because, in fact, the cadets are going to be better than the specially trained National Guard fighters, who have spent an extreme amount of money, well, that's a very, very difficult and responsible question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. As for the headquarters that will be approved by the government today. The appropriate headquarters are already in place in each area. Coordination between forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, all departments already exist. We speak in order to coordinate not only the Ministry of Internal Affairs but also the Ministry of Defence, but also local authorities generally at the national level, but also other authorities, such as the Ministry of Health, because we are talking about the possible involvement of hospitals in these areas. It is for this purpose that the headquarters is officially established today, which will coordinate among all. The necessary decisions regarding the distribution of funds have already been made. The necessary funds for producing the Jehoshaphat were already accepted by the government. Now we're talking about the overall coordination of the interlocutor in the additional issues that arise on the move. As for your second question by law and its implementation, by law. Yes, "transitional positions" are defined by the law for the six months necessary. But as soon as the law was signed, already today, I had orders to prepare the necessary regulations. Once the law is signed, the government may consider the necessary draft acts. But once again, according to our analysis of legislation, the current, and the border guards, and the National Police, there are enough resources and strength to protect the Ukrainian border. It's about setting up the border. I can point out that in the last 30 years of Ukraine's independence, 30 years, no President of Ukraine before that has been properly equipped with any km of state border with the Republic of Belarus. Here and now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u27	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u28	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. I give the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u29	Please, Paul the Bacon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u30	Good afternoon! Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. Mr. Secretary, of course, it is a matter of great respect for you, that you have personally been on the border and you are holding a situation on every moment of control. Yet, in social networks, someone is spreading a video that illegal migrants are still entering the territory of our country. Please confirm whether this is the case or not, so that our citizens do not worry. And are you working on any mechanisms with foreign partners for mutual protection, for joint training in our state border to prevent illegal migration from the side of Belarus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u31	Thank you. As for your comment on my visit to the border, you shouldn't overestimate it. First of all, I would urge all citizens of Ukraine to respect a private border guard who, today, across the state border with other states, not only with the Republic of Belarus, at the minimum cost, because it sounded like there was going to be mad money, that's not true, protecting the state border of Ukraine. And I think it's this profession that is a foreigner's profession that is under-appreciated, under-funded, under-funded today. I think we can fix this. Regarding the question of information that was spread a few days ago about penetration, it was as if a number of tens of migrants had infiltrated Ukraine. We are already watching, and today the cyber police are beginning to find out where this information is coming from. Yesterday there was a denial of this information that this is an absolute fairy tale. But instead of the video that was taken, it says that the people who organized these shots were clearly trying to give the impression that this breakthrough was happening. This fake was decomposed. The Cyber Police today find out where this is happening. But I want to address the Ukrainian citizens first, so that we can track and properly verify the information that is being provided by the media today on this event. For my part as Minister of Internal Affairs, I can say that we are ready and will provide daily information on the current state of affairs at the state border. So trust in official sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We asked the Minister of Interior Dennis Anatolyovich Monastirski. Thank you. Please take your place in the government's bed. And we're moving on to questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government from the national MPs. But, colleagues, before I sign up for the question, I'd like to welcome, today's Jubilee, the birthday of Justice Minister Denis Leontoyovich Malyyyyyukka. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] We wish you good health and hard work for Ukraine. Best of luck, thank you for your work. Dear colleagues, we turn to questions to the Prime Minister and members of the government from the national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for questions. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u33	Please put on the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u34	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u35	Alexei Hotcharenko. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, as co-chair of the interfractional association "Clean Energy is a Green Environment", you know that I have raised many times the question of closing debts to investors in alternative energy, which unfortunately accumulated, was law, memorandum and so on, and this has not been done. Finally, through the green bonds instrument, through targeted money from European banks, the funds needed to cover the debts were involved, and they began to cover themselves. But then something really amazing happened, when this money was originally completely blocked, but then it was listed, but not all of them, not all of them, have not been listed. The question is direct to you. There are reports that you personally gave such a command to the management of the Savings and Guarantee Buyer Company. So I have a question: your attitude towards this situation as a whole, and if you've given such a command personally, who gave you the command to block the recalculation of the money specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. So according to Ukrenergo’s commission, $825 million was issued. This was in line with the memorandum and agreements with producers of renewable energy sources. So saying that the government isn't interested in implementing the memorandum with the Greens is at least incorrect, I think it's manipulative, we're completely interested. And then, extremely quickly, Ukrennergo turned this currency into a bracelet and counted DP "Guaranteed Buyer" 19.3 billion dollars. According to the guaranteed purchaser's received, 16.3 billion U.S. producers have already been sent to account for these debts, as agreed. The government is still taking steps to fully repay the debt. This will be done as signed in the memorandum. No illegal instructions have ever been given to me or given to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u37	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u38	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” Please give my word to my colleague Natalia Pipi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u39	Please, Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u40	Good afternoon! I have a question about med school, so it's for the Minister of Health first. On September 13, Kabmin’s decision was returned with mandatory preventive medical examinations. But this happened in the red zone, during the pandemic. And I understand the need for regular med exams, and you gave me the answer for that, thank you. But I have two questions. First. I ask you very much to organize separate courses for the education community. Each school is bound to a particular clinic for hours when medical examinations could come and not be further exposed to SOVID. And the second. On whose account is the banquet? I have an answer from the Ministry of Health that these medical examinations should be carried out at the expense of the employer. But trade unions and a large number of educators say that they do it on their own account. Then I ask you to explain who has to pay for these medical examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u41	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you so much for asking. I would like first of all to thank the students who carry out their social mission, respond to the government and the Ministry of Health proposals, and receive vaccinations against COVID, which can be shown to everyone else. And I'm asking you to follow our students, who have been vaccinated with almost 90 percent of two doses against COVID. With regard to the organization of preventive medical examinations. Yes, we've allowed preventive medical examinations, because the COVID epidemic has a significant impact on other diseases, including non-infectious diseases, cancers, we're talking about tuberculosis, and other diseases that may be undetected through the COVID pandemic. Thus, the health system prepares for a significant increase in the number of other diseases in the two years that we are in quarantine, and for years 3-5, the number of other diseases will increase significantly, not in the early stages, but in other stages of the development of the disease, which will be much more difficult to cure and more expensive for the country’s economy. So we resumed our medical examinations. With regard to the organization of medical examinations, each health - care director who conducts these medical examinations should clearly plan and do separate days, separate hours for these medical examinations. Ukrainian legislation clearly stipulates that medical examinations of certain contingents are carried out and carried out at the expense of the employer, as clearly stated in the Labour Protection Act. Therefore, no one should ask an educator to pay for a medical examination. So if we have other information, we'll work with the Ministry of Education on this material, and if there's any evidence that someone asked the teacher.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u42	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stepi Sergija Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Alexander Kachuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u44	Alexander Anatolyovich Kachura, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u45	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, our political faction certainly supports the President's and the government's programme to stimulate vaccinations by receiving thousands of dollars from Ukrainian citizens. But there are questions in both the MPs and the Ukrainian society that you want to answer. First question. What real figure is needed in the budget to cover the entire payout programme for Ukrainian citizens? The second question. What exactly are these costs going to be spent on? Question three. I understand, in fact, that in Ukrainian villages someone probably has both the Internet and smartphones, but exactly the cinemas, the athletes have only started to build in the last few years. And the fourth question is, in terms of occupied areas. Whether mechanisms are being developed for Ukrainian citizens living in occupied areas so that they can come to Ukraine’s controlled territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u46	Thank you for your question, very timely. So really, the initiative of the President of Ukraine is to develop a special program that deals with several important directions. First. Support businesses that have suffered, small and medium-sized businesses that have suffered from COVID, the crisis caused by COVID, support Ukrainian citizens who are vaccinated, and promote the vaccination process accordingly. The program is that a thousand dollars will be allocated through Action, will be allocated to all Ukrainian citizens who are vaccinated twice, who have respective COVID certificates in Action. They will be able to use these citizens’ certificates, and accordingly some 6,000 business subjects will be able to participate in the program. The program will be in operation since December 19, this year, and it will run for 12 months. This year, 3 billion will be invested, 3 billion more at the beginning of next year. Then, to the extent necessary, all the necessary costs will be added. I'm sure the Supreme Council will always support such budget changes in order to support citizens. So about the amount, I said, what did I say? Regarding the use of this option in villages and Ukrainian pensioners, work is now being done. At the time the program is launched, these proposals will also be publicised and presented to society by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leon Aleksandrovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u48	Alexei Leonov, "Serial of the People" faction, the city of Odessa. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski. Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, please tell us what is the fate of our odious national deputy, Ilya Kiwa? Did he give up the prized weapon, and what further fate of this weapon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. I want to point out that, yes, this weapon was handed over by a national MP. And what I can say is that today I signed an order to reward two National Guard fighters: Sidorina Sergio Volodymyrovich, commander of the 2nd Battalion of Operational Assignment, who participated in the OOS in the 14th year, and took and defused the enemy's tank, and received a splinter wound, and pulled out a squad from under mass fire; and Nazaria Yasinsky, commander of the 1st Battalion of Operational Assignment, which, in 2014, participated in the OOS as of this year, also participated in the discovery of diversion groups, brought out many fighters from under fire, and, in fact, his work was marked at the highest level by a medal. And it is this weapon that will be given to these heroes today who are truly honored and have the right to be marked by such a high mark on behalf of the Ukrainian State. This position of the Ukrainian people, this position of the Ukrainian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u50	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u51	Kowalczuk Alexander. Please give the word to Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u52	Feder Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u53	Feder Venislavsky, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." I have two questions. The first question to the Minister of Internal Affairs, and it concerns the clarification of the question that has already been raised today, about the setting up of the Ukrainian-Belarus border. Speaking up, you said that in 30 years of independence, almost nothing was done to accommodate this border. Please tell me, since the beginning of the Russian Federation's armed aggression, when it was understood that the Republic of Belarus has allowed its military facilities, including the Russian Federation, to be used, has anything been done since the 14th year to equip the Ukrainian-Belarus border? And the second question. This year we passed the Law on the Fundamentals of National Opposition, which significantly strengthened our ability, including the territorial defence unit. The second question is shared with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. How to coordinate the activities of the Territorial Defence Brigades and the National Guard Units, and to this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I have already noted that over the past 30 years no km of state border has been built with the Republic of Belarus. If, we say, after a time of armed aggression and with the Russian Federation, a few tens of miles was built, a project called a known name. Our approach is quite different, it is to finally allocate the right funds and build the border required by the border, throughout the entire length of the Ukrainian-Russian-Ukrainian-Belarus area of the border for the next two years. I think that it is possible to do so together with a united effort. I give the floor then to the Ministry of Defense's representative for coordination.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. We're in real coordination right now, because we're planning a joint headquarters, you know that, and we're going to be involved in a state border security operation. Training for territorial defence will now take place. We are guided by the legislation that is currently in force today, because the Law on Opposition takes effect from 01.01.2022. And for the time being, there will be training in territorial defense. As far as a joint operation is concerned, the Armed Forces can only be used if the legal regime is under way in a state of war or a state of emergency. So that's not what this is about right now. And the territorial defence units can now conduct training with a view to participating in the strengthening of security.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u56	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u57	I ask you to pass the word to Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u58	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. I have the following questions to Mr. Prime Minister. First. By answering my first question, you've confirmed that only 16 billion out of 19 are listed. Question one: when will the last 3 billion dollars be counted to alternative energy producers? The second question. You didn't answer whether the government would open up the opportunity for the people of this "wave thousand," as it was already called in the people, to pay for the things they really needed, such as housing services or payment of medicines? Is Grandma supposed to go to the Pilates and the 95th? And I have a third question for you. Imports from Belarus increased by 54 percent this year, from the Russian Federation to 19. Maybe we should not just set up a border, but perhaps it is time for the government to take steps to reduce our dependence on these countries? And if we're addicted to oil products from Belarus, what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u60	Thank you for asking again. For the first part, I'm going to ask the Minister of Energy to complete it. It's about a thousand dollars in business support. I'm going to say again, support for the five directions that are the most affected by the coronary crisis, these are really creative industries, these are inland transports, these are museums in particular, that's what applies to the state. This is about 6,000 business subjects, who are really affected by the coronavirus and where there is a risk of losing jobs, reducing the payment of taxes, that is, it is primarily supported by the business. That's the first one. The other one. People will be given the opportunity to receive additional services for a thousand dollars using these virtual cards through Action. Most importantly, this thousand dollars will not be taxed and this thousand dollars will not be included in the calculation of subsidies. So the people who get subsidies, this thousand dollars, they're not going to affect that. This is also an important element of this program. As for the use of this card of individual categories of citizens, I have answered this question in part today. We're also working on this architecture of this program. It's going to sound extra. I am convinced that we will take into account all the proposals and the national MPs and the Ukrainian citizens who make absolutely good, concrete proposals. With regard to the calculation of alternative energy sources, please fill in Energy Minister Herman Valeriovich Galuchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u61	Thank you. This money will necessarily be counted to the producers of green energy. What's important is that this information about what they're going to do to some other generation doesn't exactly fit the reality. The government clearly stated in its decision that this money is exclusively for green energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u62	The word is given in place of Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, who conveys the word Eutusek to Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u63	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Mr. Sergio Mihajlovich, since June, we have been having a discussion with you about the fact that there is not enough subsidies to pay the salaries of the educated in the rural communities to which rural schools have joined. I'm asking you very much right now, if you can, please specify the source if you can cover that deficit. Let me give you an example. The city’s territorial community, the city’s territorial community, has a deficit of 24 million. Within the redistribution of the subsidy area, some 10 million more are available. Can we guarantee with you that teachers will be provided with financial wages? Will they have to go on vacation without saving these wages? Please give a meaningful answer as to whether we can provide teachers with salaries where.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. If you need a more meaningful answer than I've already told you, I can confirm that the costs, the remaining educational subsidies will be distributed at the end of the year, including to address the problematic issues that you've pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u65	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Ripinij Ella Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u66	Good afternoon. I would like to touch upon the issues of internally displaced persons who are now registered with nearly 1.5 million. The address aid for them is 442 bracelets and has not been reviewed since the 14th year. Mr. Prime Minister, is the government planning to make a decision to raise this aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u67	So we're working on your proposal with the Ministry of Reintegration of temporarily occupied territories and how we're going to answer the MP's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u68	The word is given to the National Deputy Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u69	Alexander Sukhov, Luganshina, trust MP. Please pass the word to Sergio Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u70	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, please note that the R-66 in the Luhansk region was the Grand Building, and I think all the people in the Luhansk region think it was the Great Stealing, to make an immediate audit of this road that was completely destroyed. Secondly, I would also like to take into account the report of the State Service, which found at the Crossroads in the Supervisory Board to spend 52 million dollars spent on cards, from the state budget, 52 million dollars on whiskey, on cigarettes, on the road of cars, on expensive hotels and so on, and probably already violated criminal conduct on this issue. And the question is also to pay the miners. Now 1 billion 700 million dollars have not been paid to coal miners. When it's paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u71	So with regard to the first part of the question, I think it's the competence of the law enforcement agencies. If there are such warnings or observations that there have been criminal abuse, request for a proper request as a national MP to the law enforcement authorities. About the second part of your question. The State fully fulfils its obligations under appropriate subsidies and corresponding subsidies for the wages of miners on time and in full. If the Minister of Energy has something to add to this question, please add, Herman Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u72	Yes, indeed, I can confirm that we've recently paid off about 700 million and are working on bringing the right costs closer to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u73	It's all right, isn't it? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear people's deputies, before we go to the agenda, we have two applications with a replacement for the performance. First of all, I'd like to invite National Deputy Fedina Sofia Romanovna, three minutes, please. Please do not go in with the government, because important decisions are made, your job is in the hall. Please, Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u74	The public investigation of Bellingcat has torn apart the apprentice who has been in our country for a year and a half and a half, and has revealed a crisis of confidence in the higher leadership of the state, a crisis of responsibility, but also the universal scale of the lie that has been feeding us for over a year and a half. The Bellingcat investigation showed that all the insinuations that the special ops were gone, or there was no special operation, or there was no special operation, it was all a lie fed to us by the President's Office for a long time. Similarly, it proved to be a lie that something there was done by the FSB — a lie. What the Belarusian security forces were doing there was a lie. It was a high-class Ukrainian specialization. And in view of that, we also get the following manifestations and consequences of these lies and irresponsibility. The cynicism and irresponsibility of the authorities ’ own services raises the same question as the extent of possible danger to our nation. The president had to give permission for the final stage of the operation, but he had, according to Bellingcat, twice not had time to meet with the officers of his own special forces. After that, he floats them to the Jermaka, which there seems to be some kind of proposal that we may be postponing. As a result, we see that it looks like this special operation has failed. Intelligence was forced to listen to the office manager, and in doing so they showed their contempt for those who could really protect the state. Next. The personal ambitions of the pseudo-peacekeeper Zelensky, who cost us dozens of dead, unaccounted for defenders of Ukraine, hundreds of wounded, proved to be more important than the ability to detain and hold accountable assassins on an international scale, and to find evidence for the future condemnation of the aggressor country. But what's more, as a result of this torn-down operation, the enemy knows exactly who's involved, and he can definitely blackmail someone from the superior leadership of a country that threatens Ukraine's enormous danger. That's why we're demanding the creation of a real TSC that really has to question all the figures of the extreme council, starting with Green and German. We also demand to provide protection to the main witnesses in this case, to the special appointments that are being blocked by both the Office and the "ministers of the people" and the TSC itself. We've asked today, Your Honor, and if you vote for it, today will be concrete evidence as to whether you're involved or not. And what's more, I should say, was also a prison arrest operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u75	Thank you. The word is given to Tishenko Mikolaiovich, which is three minutes. There was also a break with a replacement for the introduction. And there came another break with a replacement for the performance. Please, Tishchenko Mikolaajovich. I'm sorry, Shahov first, right? Shahov, please first Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich and then Tishchenko – 3 minutes. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich – 3 minutes, then Tishchenko – 3 minutes, and then we go to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u76	Sergey Shahov Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, there are so many issues that are being raised by the government. But unfortunately, we can't all put them up. As for Luhanskina, as far as Donetskina is concerned, Donbasu is where the war is going. First. Let's take a look at the words that I've been saying from this rostrum for two and a half years. Today, coal reserves are scarce, our miners do not receive wages, and somehow we pay in advance abroad. And our miners sit without pay. One hundred million tons of coal in the Lysican Coal Basin, they say, marchers, get and give jobs zero. They don't pay people, they don't pay them, they don't pay them. Please tell me where social justice is today. What is it? Where is the government's job? That's what's happening with the gas dumps today. 33 billion cubic metres of gas could be added in the summer of 200, 150 dollars in the summer of zero. They got 13 million, 13 billion cubic metres of gas, and what's going on, who got the gas sold out? Why is it that schools, kindergartens, and even parliament pay 35 dollars per cubicle of gas? It's 35 times more expensive, not 35 percent, but 35 times more, and it's from the average citizen's pocket to sit here in warm chairs, and people were freezing in their apartments, unable to pay today for paying us here in the budget. What about OSBB, which also uses 35 bracelets of gas, is a legal institution. Or the electricity they set up to save money, today in the Lugansk region they have to pay 5.18 dollars per kilowatt, 4.67 dollars per kilowatt, in the Donetsk region, 3.66 dollars per kilowatt, or in Kiev. The price has tripled. That I asked question number four, that I asked the Prime Minister a question, not the Minister of Infrastructure anymore, the Grand Building, or the theft. In the Luhansk region, the R-66 road collapsed completely, and a type of criminal conduct was disrupted. It's been a year. Zero today. We haven't been given anything. What you have to say about all these roads today is, please, the coffins of 70,000 people -- that's 140 kilometers -- will be from Lugansk to Kharkiv on these roads. Soon there will be no one on these roads. Who will be responsible? I'd like to hear those answers from Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to now vote on such a thing. Like we always do, from 12:30 to 12:30, cancel the break and cancel "Rizzle." [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't want to cancel? Let's talk about it, okay? Let's talk about it. Arthur, I'll give it to you in a minute. Look, I'm making an offer, as always, so that we can cancel the break from 12 to 12:30, and then we can work in plenary mode until 12:30, then we can go over to the polls and close today's plenary session. From Nestor Ivanovich's procedure, please. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Head. With the utmost respect, I would like to remind you that at the faction leaders' meeting yesterday, we agreed to save the "Virgin." That is, after the country's national MPs have been called and the President and voted, we will allow the people's deputies to make their statements. We shook hands on this yesterday. So I ask you to keep this arrangement, it is of principle important to us, and I think it's not just for us that the Ukrainian people's deputies get an hour to announce their positions and statements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u79	Nestor Ivanovich, thank you so much for your position. Then, with your permission, I'll make a complex proposal just to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. Right? Then we work in plenary mode until 12:30, and then we go from 12:30 to 12:30 to 1:00, and at 1:00, we go to an ingredient that's different. Vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? National deputies, please take your seats. Please vote. [[11:20:32]] For 292 [[11:20:54]] Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement was made about a real break of half an hour from two factions. A half - hour break is announced. Thank you. "Serve of the people" and "For the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I see 178 people's deputies in this room. So I'm using the chairman's rights to announce a 30-minute break to mobilize people in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of MPs. During the plenary week, 107 parliamentary inquiries were made. Of these, 9 are to the President of Ukraine, 2 are to the Supreme Council, 53 are to the Cabinet of Ministers, 31 are to the heads of other state authorities and local authorities, 12 are to the directors of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership. Under the previous arrangement of faction heads, requests to the President requiring a vote will not be voted on today but will be voted on next Friday when there is an appropriate parliamentary potential in the room. So we're going to read the questions that are registered this week. [[B in m in s a l in]] And then there's the "Variance" of us. Yeah, from the 13th "Virgin," we voted like that, of course. Break time is over, number three isn't up. Requests are being announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just said, according to the faction heads' arrangement, since there's no parliamentary potential in the room, we're voting. Yeah, next Friday, that's what I said. We need to listen a little more carefully. So Valery Koluch's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to verify the purpose of the introduction of the "Mathematics" contest as mandatory for entry into certain specialties according to the conditions approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine's October 13, 2021, issue 1098. Ella Ripinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the size of monthly targeted assistance to internally displaced persons. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration for the disclosure of personal data. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for construction of transport infrastructure. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyiv City Public Administration for the use of repairs in a residential building. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General’s Office for the possible violation of criminal criminal law in the course of a criminal investigation. Victor Myalik to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the allocation of land to war veterans and families of the dead. Boris Prijdjka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the urgent problem of the payment of municipal services due to the significant travel of the cost of gas and electricity to the GSP "Bobrowic Professional College of the O. Main National University of Bioresources and the use of Ukraine". Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of State oversight measures in the field of economic activity. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on increasing budgetary allocations for treatment from organ transplants, other anatomical materials and post-transplant periods. Mr. Alexander Litvinov is responsible for the Head of State Service's work on baseless refusals by the General Directorate of State in Kharkiv Region to grant permission to carry out the economic activities of the KVF "Roma". Solomonia Bobrowski to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the violation of the economic competition of the T.O. "Sivertex" during the public procurement of UA-2021-09-30-007019-b. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on abuses during public purchases of tents of unified sanitary and dental systems for the military parts of the U.S.U.S. Groups of Ukrainian National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney-General on the use of measures to properly conduct criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney General on the examination of the facts of the improper conduct of the investigation. Sergey Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the annulment of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine since November 3, 2021, No. 1147 "On the Approval of the Methodology of the Standard Financial Assessment of Land Areas" or amending it. Michael Bondar to the head of the Krasten village community of the Zoločov district of Lviv, head of the Lviv district administration for the repair of the road of general use of the district (local) value of Red-Utišków S140211. Michael Bondar to the Attorney General's Office regarding the investigation into the collapse of the special operation concerning the detention in Ukraine of a group of members of the Vagner Air Force. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine for bringing the regulatory framework for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity Market into line. Andrija Bogdanca to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors, to provide information on the state of construction of the National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of the Hundreds of Heaven Museum of the Dignity Revolution and the purpose of the budget allocated to the financing of the measures. Valery Gnatenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on guarantees of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens to receive social services and avoid social tensions due to the validity of Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 1040 of October 6, 2021. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the independence of health service providers. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Bridge City Head of the Lviv Region, for the provision of a person with limited physical capacity, adapted to his needs, housing. Sergey Ljowczina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of price and tariff increases. Irina Konstankevich to the Director-General of the Skrušta Association for the proper functioning of the field offices of AT "Krupposta". Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyiv City Public Administration regarding the use of repairs in a residential building. John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures to meet Ukraine's requirements for open use of public funds. Romana Lozinski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the return of the tank to the community of the village of Alexandro Kalinov in Donetsk. Roman Lozinski to the head of the Stock Exchange Association of the Private Bank Commercial Bank for the Preservation of the Privatbank Branch in New York. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, on the non-admissibility of raising the value of natural gas distribution services in the area of the Hmielni district in the 22nd year. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of infrastructure subsidies for newly created territorial communities that have been established on the basis of decommissioned administrative areas. Maxime Berezin to the Director of the Public Enterprise of the Local Road Agency of the Poltava Region on the need for a capital repair of the Lochvitza-Mirgorod road, namely the Lochvitsa-Liberny-Lubna area in the Poltav region. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to carry out an objective examination of the previously cited possible criminal acts of the former first deputy of the Police Department No. 2 of the KUNP in the Zitomir region of Moscow, Maksim Alexandrovich, and to remove him from his post at the time of the inspection, decommissioning and renewal of the composition of the Internal Security Administration in the Gitomir region of the Department of Internal Security of the National Police of Ukraine. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the listing of U.S.S. military personnel during the period of captivity to the general and insurance service. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the issue of living in the workplace of citizens who have direct objections to vaccination from COVID-19 in relation to health. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair of the road to the general use of the local value of O162339 /T-16-44/ Bogdanovka – Mikolayevka – Starosilla – Miniylovka – Pharaohovka Odes region. Jury Kamelchuk to the director of the separate division of the Red Cross Department of the State branch of the Lviveel State Enterprise, the director of the responsibilities of the director of the separate division of the Lisova Department of the State Enterprise Lvivvogila, the director of the separate division of the State Enterprise Lvivvogila, the director of the Lvivvogil State Department, the director of the separate division of the Lvivvogil State Enterprise, the director of the separate division of the Lvivvvvogil State Enterprise, the separate division of the "Schtépow" Department of the "Schtépowice" Department of the State-owned enterprise Lvivvogil" Groups of National Deputies (Germany, Capelova, and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the State Investment Project "Restructuring Hydrotechnical Buildings of Protective Massives of Deprovese Water Refuges". Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporary head of the Government of the Association of Action, DAC "Urban Roads of Ukraine" for free transfer from the state to the municipal property of the Regional Council of the Lviv Region of Real Estate AT "State Shareholder Company "Urban Roads of Ukraine". Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of adequate funding in 2022 for a comprehensive restoration with the application of the Castle complex in the Zoločov Region of the Zločov Region. Robert Gorvato to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the development and implementation of a system-wide national program for the restoration and development of a network of higher education institutions. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on coal reserves at Ukraine's thermal power stations. Mikhail Cimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of antiviral drugs for the treatment of coronary infection in Ukraine. Bogdan Kitzak to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the construction of a 60-bedroom residence for military personnel in the city of Berdichev. Bogdan Kitsak to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, on the transfer of property to the Andrushian territorial community. Oksana Savechuk to the temporary duty of Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting Head of State Environmental Inspection to carry out an objective verification of compliance with the requirements of environmental and other legislation by the separate branch of the "Burstin thermal power station AT "DTEK Westeringo". Oksana Savchuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the deployment of a separate battalion of the territorial defence force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the territory of the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Maxim Guzenk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the provision of a communal non-commercial company called the Romanian Central District Hospital with the necessary diagnostic equipment - a computer tomographer. Anatolya Kostuha to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine about a portion of imported coal. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the 2021 government priority plan by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Clock, Ducks, and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Executive Director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the modernization of the electronic voting system and the counting of votes. July of the Lighthouse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for water exchange measures in the Kharkiv Falls. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the circumstances of the crossing of the state border of Ukraine suspected of committing crimes in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine by Denis Kulikovski. Alexander Kachura to the Attorney-General on the objective, complete and impartial investigation of criminal conduct and the possibility of reimbursement of funds to investors of the ELECTROWA Group. Groups of National Deputies (Girl, Grishenko, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General, the State Bureau of Investigation on the need to violate criminal conduct and conduct impartial investigations, the figures of which are co-workers of the National Police of the Zitomir Region, as well as the question of the purpose of being the head of the National Police Directorate in the Zitomir district of Oliya Mikolayovich and further responsibility under the current legislation. Sergey Kuzminy to the Attorney General, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the return to the legal terms of the proper M.I. Engineering property, which was unlawfully removed during the search. Roman Lozinski to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General, for the unlawful actions of police officers. Romana Lozinski to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the status of Morshin as a resort of State importance. Igora Abramovich to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the use of measures aimed at the protection of the constitutional and valid rights of workers in education and science institutions. Igora Abramovich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the use of measures aimed at preventing the possible complexity of the work of health institutions. Igora Abramovich to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Director-General of the Ukrainian National Fund for the Support of Farms for the Use of Measures to Support the Development of Small Farmers. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine for Capital Repair of the T-04-01 Road Area (Tokmak-Molochansk) (Molochansk-Melitopol). Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine for the capital repair of the T-08-13 road area (Tokmak - Chernigivka). Groups of National Deputies (Cultenka, Marusek and others) A total of 60 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of State funding for production and the release of Hachik Vasilan's film "My Young Prince". The questions are over.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u82	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. We've completed the request. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to talk from one question to another, which takes about half an hour. I'd like a colleague to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Papiev Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u83	I give the floor to the People's Deputy, Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u84	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, the presidency and, above all, the distinguished viewers and voters! I'd like to ask you about the economic and social situation in the country. Today, we have complex processes that are related to what is actually happening in two years of the decline in industrial production, agriculture. We have complex inflation processes going on. Instead, the National Bank, for example, instead of overcoming inflation with the mechanisms of government regulation, applies these monetary policy instruments that have nothing to do with overcoming inflation, because we have non-monetary inflation and the raising of the interest rate in no way affects it. We have rising tariffs and bills for residential services. We have a significant deterioration in the standard of living in the country. Instead, how does today’s authorities react? Why are we not taking the economic social course offered in the country today? Because it significantly improves the standard of living. For example, housing and utility bills, if, two years ago, in September, utility bills in the country were 4.5 billion dollars, almost 5, then in September of this year, 11, that is, more than double the cost of housing services. Why do we focus on this? Because instead of changing the economic, social course, changing tariff policy, fiscal policy and so on, the President's Office and personally the President are engaged in political persecution by the leaders of the opposition, criminal cases against Victor Medvedczuk are being fabricated, illegal, non-constitutional sanctions are being imposed, sanctions imposed solely against Ukrainian citizens are being imposed without a court decision, four independent information channels are being closed. All of these steps relate solely to one another -- instead of solving urgent socio-economic problems and thus increasing its political ratings, the authorities are pressing opposition leaders exclusively. Including the persecution of other national MPs: Taras Kozak, Elijah Kiwa, heads of the regional political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Our party insists that today’s authorities should not deal with political persecution but only with the urgent economic and social issues that Ukrainian citizens today need. To address the issues on a macro-level, both in monetary policy and generally in those socio-economic issues that are as low as possible to the average citizens of Ukraine. I insist that it is not the political persecution of the leaders of the opposition, but the sole settlement of the issues within the country in a legitimate, constitutional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u86	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u87	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! You know, it's been gone for the tenth month since the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council imposed sanctions against three all-U.S. independent information channels: ZIK, NewsOne, 112 Ukraine, and imposed sanctions against the head of the political council of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" by the Ukrainian National MP Viktor Medvedchuk, and against the member of the political tradition "The Opposition Platform for Life" by the Ukrainian national deputy Taras Kozak. What are the sanctions against TV channels imposed? For telling the real truth about life in Ukraine, TV channels have turned the age of poverty into an era of poverty. That 56 percent of citizens do not agree with and support the policies of the President of Ukraine today. 71 percent of Ukrainian citizens claim that Ukraine is not moving in the right direction. 68 percent of Ukrainian citizens do not support the Land Market Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That medical reform is a genocide of the Ukrainian people. The fact that tariffs, dragon tariffs, are also genocide against the Ukrainian people. What were the sanctions imposed against Viktor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk? Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich proposed an alternative course for Ukraine’s development from the course conducted by the current Ukrainian authorities. Because Medvedchuk has developed a peace plan to end the armed conflict in Donbas and bring Donbas back to Ukraine and Ukraine to Donbas to sew Ukraine back into the one state. Medvedchuk offered to provide Ukrainian citizens with a national vaccine for Ukrainians. For offering ways to raise the economy, how to lower tariffs, Medvedchuk suggested, as I said, an alternative path to Ukraine's development. All these actions and sanctions imposed by the authorities are illegal. And this illegality was acknowledged by the Ukrainian National Security Council. Because on November 15, the National Security Council of Ukraine, on the information request of the Ukrainian News Council, replied that the regulations of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine are not in place to date, and that does not call into question all decisions made by the National Security and Defence Council, puts into question all the decrees of the President of Ukraine that he has imposed on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, particularly against the channels and leaders of our political power. So if they're illegal, these orders have to be canceled, and cases, criminal cases, are closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u88	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u89	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good day, dearly few, sadly fellow workers! I'll talk, of course, about Wagner's case, about Wagner's. This matter has already been actively discussed in the Ukrainian media, in the world’s media. The only thing missing in these last few days since it re-emerged in the information field is some information from the official Ukrainian authorities. We didn't hear any information from the President of the country, we didn't hear any explanations from the Chief of Staff of the President of Ukraine. We're hearing explanations, very strange explanations from some people, who are numbered by some non-state advisors to the President of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we wanted to hear today, to hear an interim report from the interim parliamentary commission of inquiry, but we see an empty hall, we see the unwillingness of the "ministers of the people" to report this interim report, because we understand very well that this interim report is another interim lie in the Wagner case. Sadly, we have heard a great deal of lies about this matter from the authorities. We heard that there was no special operation. We've heard that Ukrainian intelligence has had nothing to do with this special operation. We heard that it was supposed to be a special operation, whether it's the FSB or the KGB of Belarus. But this information that has been published, including Bellingcat, has been completely correcting this lie in recent days. This information proves that there was an operation prepared by Ukrainian intelligence, a brilliant special operation that could have resulted in the capture of those who killed Ukrainians: military mercenaries and war criminals. That's not what happened. This did not happen because this special operation was actually demolished by the participation of the superior leadership of a state that did not dare to complete a special operation that lasted many months before. Unfortunately, we have heard some interesting information about the fact that the President of Ukraine did not find time to meet with the head of intelligence who was to receive his final instructions on the start of this operation. The president of Ukraine was busy. What has the president of Ukraine been busy with? By building a fictional truce, a fictitious peace, this proved to be far more important to him. The peace that existed only in his head, the peace that was followed by the shooting and killing in Ukraine. This proved to be more important to him than the involvement of war criminals, which could have happened in Ukraine, and what would have really been an unprecedented step on the part of Ukraine -- the punishment of those people who started aggression against Ukraine. This, once again, is not because of a lack of determination, precisely because of the unwillingness of President Zelensky. Obviously, we will continue to raise that question. Obviously we're going to talk about this on every possible site. And we will protect, in particular, those journalists who are already being persecuted. This is about Janina Sokolov, who is currently trying to investigate the State Bureau of Investigation. It's totally unacceptable. Ukraine needs to know the truth about the operation after the "vaganro" delay. Ukraine needs to know the truth about why it was broken, to know the truth about the role of the nation’s superior leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u90	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine. Oh, you're still going to be, aren't you? Will you hand it over? All right, let me do it then. First Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u92	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u93	An empty hall. Where are the servants? And all the time, we were told that a new team had come to work for the good of the people from morning to evening. But we can see that they're gone. Why is there no "servants"? Because Friday, everyone's already running after the envelopes. And today, the first question was the report of the so-called TSN (the message of the servants of the people) about the Wagnerians. In fact, TSN, an authentic TSN, is a news program on the pluses, an oligaric channel that has agreed on by President Zelensky, has its own journalistic standards: Green or genius. This TSN wanted to present the same report, where Greensky and his Office are either good or brilliant, and there's not a word about what actually happened. In the office of the President, there was a betrayal of Ukraine and a betrayal of Ukrainian spies. Because 15 months in person, Zelensky and his head, Jermak, lied to the country that there was no operation. They lied that it wasn't a Ukrainian operation, but now they're lying that it's like Bellingcat's investigation, it's nothing like that and it hasn't said anything negative to the authorities. Actually, that's not true. The Bellingcat investigation has shown that we have a strong Ukrainian intelligence team ready to investigate at the highest level. The other one. The Bellingcat investigation confirmed that Zelensky had been informed of this special operation from the very beginning. But on the last day on the finish line, he refused to meet with Ukrainian spies, the heads of this special operation, and he did not really accept them. Please tell me, what could be more important to the Commander-in-Chief than to do everything to protect Ukraine's security than to meet with spies? Because there's always time for a gym in Zelensky, and we can see it in social media. Please tell me, who was giving them the right, by what legislation, to have the head of his office meet with the spies and give them instructions? Tell me, please, the State Department Act, which requires all those who are subject to this State Department and have signed the relevant documents, it prohibits or confirms, or denies any information that threatens the State Department and the security of the country. How could Zelenski and Jermak deny what happened to the landlady for a year? And really tell me, please, where is the official position of the Bank regarding the merger of the operation and the Bellingcat investigation? I want to remind you that for three days it's been commented on by some outside counsellors who don't officially work at the Bank, who don't seem to be getting paid there, let's call the bankers to comment. We demand an official comment from the Bank. We demand the official position of Zelensky. We're demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u94	As mentioned in the "Serial of the People" faction, there is a right to a replica. Neklud's reign, please, a minute. Right on the line. Name of MPs or factions. Rules we're looking at.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vicespieker, Your Honor. We can see. Lord Nekludov, faction of the Servant of the People. I take advantage of my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u96	It was said that there was something there called "ministers of the people," and the TCN was reduced. I've heard the name of the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we see the egregious facts of the manipulation by the speaker, Irina Heratchenko, who is sifting the facts and claiming to have failed the operation of the "vagners", is also accused by President Vladimir Zelensky of the Ukraine, and President Jermak's Chief of Staff of the Office of the President of Germany of the alleged collapse of the operation. Where is one fact indicated about the downpour of the operation? There is no fact. It's built on the fact that they're masterfully manipulating your consciousness and passing on information that doesn't fit the reality. In the report itself, there is no evidence that he had failed the operation. In addition, Attorney General Irina Vendiktova reported that these facts would be verified within the framework of a pretrial investigation and a legal assessment would be given. So I'm asking you not to manipulate people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u98	The word is given to Melnik Paul Viktorovich, a national deputy. He conveys the word to Mazurash Georgiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u99	Today I am probably the first to speak from the Parliamentary rostrum as an invisible person. Because before that, a colleague from another faction claimed that there was no one in the room. I feel for people who don't notice their colleagues, but it's something they like to do, manipulate and lie about, that's their prize. I mean, that. Addressing representatives of all the factions and groups that are now in the hall, of course, it is sad that Fridays have some tradition of fleeing the parliamentary hall quickly. People have to work, like other citizens, and in parliament, including, all the time set for work. But I, for example, am among those deputies who are very closely associated with their constituents, and I would like to invite colleagues from opposition forces not to take on too much or sign up for the entire nation as you like to do. Because exactly citizens aren't interested in the manipulations you're doing here in Parliament. Often, by the way, representatives of factions with even a manipulative name, because you don't really care much about our European integration, you just look. Because you're actually contributing to a war in the country, to a split, you're leading the country to a split and to a breakup. But you're not going to succeed because there's a Parliament called "Serve of the People," there's a President's team that's going to bring Ukraine to peace in our country and to higher social standards. Because you're a destructive force, and when you're accusing a lot, maybe a positive political power, but for example, in the same PRTR, all their negatives are more constructive than they are. It's very distasteful to hear the representatives of former or present dusters, formerly in power in the country, because you've done a lot to make the country sink lower and lower, and eventually lead it to the poorest in Europe, unfortunately. And unfortunately, I'm sorry to say that we haven't come out of this position yet, from the poorest in Europe, but it's your primary responsibility, because you've been doing manipulations, lying and stuffing your leader's pockets, which, as they said, was a waste of walking the anecdote, which they say is far, high and high up in the mountains, there's a fur where there's no Roshen. That's what you were doing in your office. And now you have: the worse the better, you have that position. So please don't manipulate. "Serves" work, work for the people they serve. We serve the people, and you serve the Western so - called partners, and they are the only ones you know. And your faiks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u100	The word is given by Vasil Ivanovich Germany instead of Coltunovich. Please. Please, while Vasil Ivanovich is leaving, only the OPCW was mentioned. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, please. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I have always respected all opponents, especially when they make an objective assessment of our activities. So I hope that the mood with which a colleague of honor Mazurash expressed his position will dominate this room and serve for our country’s benefit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u102	"European Solidarity" was not mentioned. Dear colleagues, I listen very carefully, I listen very carefully. That's why Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko. You've got more shows coming up next. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u103	Dear little fellows, dear people of Ukraine! I took with me a draft determination to show in the background of this empty hall how the majority of the Supreme Council works in this direction, pursuing perhaps the idea of preserving the rule of law in our state. From the fact that we didn't get to her that way and we didn't get to her, I'll talk to her about the second problem. And I want to start, I want to start with the Attorney General's speech. Today, we are talking about violations of the rule of law, violations of public authorities, including law enforcement, such acts and laws that undermine national security. And now I want to talk about what the Attorney-General said on October 13, 2021, when he said that today, more than 10,000 phone records are being investigated in a criminal case involving the leader of our political power Victor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk. Dear people, you can imagine, translate, every film is 3 hours. Let's multiply ten thousand. That means, on the 14th, 15th year, the wiretaps, the knockers, and everything else at the direction of who? And we're saying that it's not our state, we're claiming to be the rule of law, and that's the problem. It must be openly admitted today that the Attorney General is unfortunately repeating words as a mantra. Those who blame the activities of our political forces, the activities of our leaders, are primarily aimed at putting an end to military opposition, preventing the activities of radically national movements and ensuring the social protection of citizens. Wasn't that our ideology? Wasn't it our idea, including the leader of our Victor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk, to reduce, reduce, reduce the material character of the press on our people? And as a result of vanity, I have no other reason. From the President's hand, who can claim that Medvedchuk is an enemy of the people, who gave such a right? The President may declare.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u104	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u105	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Dear Ukrainians, native Luganshin! Today, I want to tell you about an extremely important and complex situation that has not only taken place in Luhansk. I think there's a similar problem in many regions of Ukraine. This is about our forests. Throughout the world, developed nations are trying to protect the forest because it produces oxygen, and it helps water to stay in the soil. I don't have time to list all the useful properties of the forest. But in our country the forest is exclusively a commodity, and its logging is uncontrollable. During the TSC’s work on forest fires in Luhansk, we found that the fire was preceded by uncontrolled deforestation. And after the tragedy that resulted in the death of 17 people, hundreds of acres [100 ha] of forest plants were destroyed. The pace of the cut just accelerated. Throughout the call, our national team, Sergey Shahov, Alexander Sukhov, fought against deforestation, even stopped trucks carrying round, called the police, demanded arrest, both cargo and transportation. Because no one had any documents. If formerly forest - cutting criminals hide under cover of night, now no one is ashamed to take out the illegally cut forest right in broad daylight. Why aren't they afraid? Because law enforcement agencies, environmental services, local self - government know about such inaction, and they are all idle. Or, it makes such an impression, they take part in it. We have effective legislation, but there is no one to implement it. In our power to control every official, every lawkeeper, in order to preserve our state, to preserve the natural resources that our children and grandchildren need. I ask you to pay great attention to this problem, because if we don't stop it, the result will be terrible for the future of our nation. Attracting those responsible for large-scale forest fires in Lugansk will force other black foresters to think about the consequences of their actions. On my Facebook page, Sergey of the Magnificent, I will present a photo, a video confirmation of my words. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u106	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Pusharenko Arsenija Mihajlovich, faction of the Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u107	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, all eight years of war with Russia, we Ukrainians, we are trying to bring to the entire civilized world, to the European Union, to the United States, that war in eastern Ukraine and the occupation of our territories is not a war of Russia and Ukraine, it is a war of a civilized world and a dictatorship, Mordor I would say. And we've often heard from our partners that they're concerned, sometimes, of course, we got more concrete support. But today, I think that the entire civilized world, the whole European Union, is beginning to realize what is really going on in the eastern Ukraine and what is going on there, that Ukraine is fighting there not only for its independence and the sovereignty of its territory, that Ukraine is fighting there for values, for the values that the European Union is applying to, where we are moving to, and this is enshrined in the Constitution. And that artificial crisis that was created today by the Lukashenko regime on the Belarusian-Polish border, on the Belarusian-Latvia border, confirming that the values that our country is fighting in the eighth year, our boys are dying, we have hundreds of thousands of displaced people, it's a war where we're now at the forefront of the entire civilized world. For days I visited the crossing point of "The Show" on the border of Belarus (this is Žitomirščina), spoke to the border guards, studied the activities, rewarded the boys with thanks and clocks of the Supreme Council. Many of our bordermen today are participants in the fighting in the past, they are now carrying out their service, they have their advancement. And I want to say that when I talk to them, I'm convinced that our border today, and our border guards, and our military personnel, are ready for any challenges. And those over a thousand kilometers of border and five areas bordering Belarus today are now ready for those challenges, the artificial challenges created by the Belarusian regime today. A meeting was also held today under the chairmanship of the National Police, also in Performing Arts. And today all the relevant forces and authorities are mobilized, and I'm convinced that we're ready for any challenges and crises on our border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final speech is Arjev Vladimir Igorovic, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u109	It's interesting to see that as soon as the interim report of the so-called Interim Investigation Commission on Wagner's issues is in order of the day, here the absolute majority of the majority, give it back for the tautology that Jermak has brought down. And I understand why. Because I read this booklet that was handed out to the Ukrainian people's deputies today, and I only made sure that it wasn't a commission of inquiry, any commission -- it was a party, it was a bathroom for Zelenski and Jermak, who was trying to clean them up, but there was no investigation. Because the TSC failed to determine exactly who and at what level in Ukraine decided to postpone (this quote). Why don't you tell me, did Jermak or Zelensky get questioned? No, we haven't tried, we haven't even called. The point is that there could have been infiltrated intelligence officers among this group. Where did they come from? The TSK did not find any confirmation that the TSK did not find any proof that the TSC was confident that the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities had done everything possible. And I have a question: did they call Vendiktov and ask why she didn't fly to Minsk to do everything she could to get the Wagnerians out of there? So let me tell you, this report is going to be published, and we're going to distribute it with facts. Because the number of lies and manipulations that are here, it predominates all possible things. Because we need a real temporary investigation into the commission, because not one betrayal and not one outpouring of special operations took place during the rule of Zelensky. A special operation for the release of Ukrainian prisoners in the isolation of Donetsky, in the prison of Isolation. And the Ukrainian Security Service, as evidenced by the head of this special operation with the invitation "Swed" almost killed the leading task force that trained to free Ukrainian prisoners from Donetsk. And more and more honest intelligence officers are beginning to testify to the fact that intelligence is being destroyed right now. And they're destroying intelligence because since 2014, it's been harassing the aggressor the most. But the government's superior leadership for its airline is buying, leasing under a dark scheme of airplanes, not Ukrainian manufacturing, but the production of an aggressor state that had flown before in Angara's airline, and that will be proven. And he's working with the energy aggressor. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-19-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing today's work day. The following week, national deputies work with voters. The next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, November 30, at 10 a.m. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, colleagues.
