ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. I'll remind you that registration takes place by pressing the "for" button, the green button, the first button on the left, using the sensor button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:06:23]] There are 154 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today our colleagues' birthday is Victoria Alexandrovna Wagner and Andri Viktorovich Zadrožany. [[Applause]] I wish you the strength, the success and the best! The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday at 10 a.m. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and the Ukrainian Prime Minister's groups and members of the government today will answer questions about the state of implementation by the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On measures to combat the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) and to protect all systems of the country's vitality against the negative effects of the pandemic and new biological threats". The way to deal with the question, as always: within 20 minutes a reporter's statement, 21 minutes a question from the MPs and groups, up to 21 minutes, 1 minute a question, 2 minutes an answer; after that, there will be a question to the entire government - the Prime Minister will take his place in the government's lie, from the Ukrainian national deputies. Let's move on to the hour of questions to the government. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the podium. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honourable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians, Good Day! Today, I am going to make a detailed report on how the government has implemented the Supreme Council Regulation of 20 October 2020 on measures to combat the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) and to protect all systems of activity of the country from the negative effects of the COVID pandemic and the new biological threats. 308 people's deputies of all factions have supported this decision, so it's very important for our government to show that we're doing our utmost to carry out the road map that the people's deputies have drawn. I've already demonstrated this document, it's such a desk document for me, I've worked with it, it's done, and today I'm fully prepared to report for it. So, according to the points. Paragraph 2 of the Ordinance refers to the organization of the National Headquarters to counter the coronavirus. As early as March 26 last year, headquarters was created to eliminate the effects of a medical and biological emergency of the natural nature of the state level. In addition, President Vladimir Zelenski personally conducts headquarters meetings each week to coordinate the activities of all authorities. And the President's leadership on this issue is obvious, because the struggle against the coronavirus is a matter of national security. The headquarters constantly collects data, analyzes, and provides complete information for decisions. More than 200 headquarters managers have been issued. Each day, for 435 days, members of the government’s team meet constantly to respond quickly to all threats. We add to the work of scientists, epidemiologists, other experts who, without politics and populism, advise the government on the most important issues of countering the coronavirus pandemic. Paragraph 2.1. of the decree on the only all-U.S. multi-channel telephone line where people can get all the information they need. On November 2, 2020, the whole country was working on such a line. On this line, you can get all the information you need and sign up for vaccination. The center includes social security professionals, including professionals from other enterprises and regional offices of the Social Protection Fund. Since the beginning of the contact centre, over 520,000 people have been contacted on this telephone line, including tens of thousands of consultations on the diagnosis of the coronavirus, the targeting of tests, and the processing of tens of thousands of self-insulation appeals. Through the center, the work of emergency medical teams is also constantly improving, and we are improving the respective routes of such teams to ensure that it is reliable for hospitals where people are brought. Paragraph 2.2. of the regulation on the installation of the Coronation Testing System. In this paragraph, four sub-paragraphs, such as the creation of laboratory capabilities in the medical system of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. I would like to point out that all these departments have created appropriate capacities, and there are conditions for the admission of patients. The second aspect is the collection of materials at home. The task is to remove biological material from the premises of the next person suspected of coronavirus irrespective of their presence in the declaration. These are children under the age of 10, persons 65 years of age or older, people with disabilities I and group III, people who can't move on their own. The second item is the number of tests. The Supreme Council has determined that the power of the testing system should be more than 100,000 tests per day. I believe that this paragraph has been carried out in general by joint efforts of the district administrations, the city heads, the government and the President. Because when we had a wave of Coronavirus in the spring, we did more than 100,000 tests and the power was equal to 110,000, and 120,000 tests per day. Of course, we can discuss this issue, but we don't have any test lines or delays in the issue of test results today. In addition, effective express tests have enabled rapid diagnostics on the part of family doctors. It's a very useful tool to control the pandemic at the time of the wave rise. But, I emphasize, there are some problems, and we keep working to fix them. And this is one of the tasks that is now before the new minister. As for paragraph 2.3, vaccination is really one of the critical issues. The decree does not determine the number or percentage of people to be vaccinated. But we now have direct contacts and arrangements with manufacturers for 34 million doses of vaccines and another 8 million doses of vaccines are to come at the initiative of COVAX international. The plan remains in force to inoculate most of the population, the adult population of Ukraine, by the end of this year. The decree states that we have to vaccinate 40 percent at the expense of the budget. All of us who want to be vaccinated are vaccinated for free. Thank you to the National Deputies for allocating sufficient funds, namely, 10 billion dollars from the State budget. There's a deal with the World Bank, and in addition, for $90 million, of which part will be spent on the purchase of vaccines, we'll get another 50 million euros from the European Investment Bank in order to make a vaccine in the state. What arrangements for the supply of vaccines, including the COVAX initiative? Pfizer - 21.2 million doses, Novavax - 10 million doses, AstraZeneca - more than 10 million doses, and Sinovac - almost 2 million doses. And the last thing about this point is communication. At the beginning of the year, according to various sociological surveys, about 30 percent of Ukrainian citizens were willing to be vaccinated. A April poll by UNICEF showed that 63 percent of Ukrainian citizens are ready to be vaccinated, and I think that's also an achievement for us. By the way, I would like to thank the people's deputies, especially the majorists, who have shown themselves how to approach the vaccination process, explained the importance of vaccination and, indeed, by their own example, let's say, involved and inspired people into vaccination. Paragraph 2.4 is a question directly concerning the provision of medical care, including the place of residence of the patient. There is an order from the Ministry of Health 722, which clearly determines how medical care is provided when hospitalization and removal of doctors are possible, including a doctor’s decision to examine the patient’s place of residence. In general, I would like to emphasize that our treatment protocols are now very clear, and we are constantly updating them, taking into account the international experience and the recommendations of the best Ukrainian experts. Paragraph 2.5. of the Emergency Medical Regulation. When the budget was formed in 2018, the funding of emergency medicine was set at 6 billion dollars; in 2019 the emergency received 6 billion dollars, for 2021, for this year, we have 14 billion dollars to finance emergency medicine, that is, we increased funding almost twice. It's a noticeable difference in sums, and this difference is a significantly increased payment to the medics, it's hundreds of new cars, it's the fixed reception facilities, it's the new quality equipment. With the level of increase in the budget that we have put in place in two or three years, Ukraine will be provided with all the necessary emergency medicine. We're going to do it exactly, and we're going to work on it extremely, and we're going to work very, very hard. Paragraph 2.6. of the Ordinance, which deals with improving the effectiveness of treatment for patients with COVID-19 in stationary conditions. Through the systematic joint efforts of the President of Ukraine, parliament, government, and local authorities, the capacity of the medical system has been greatly strengthened. A network of health facilities has been set up and defined to help patients with coronary disease. According to the National Health Service, 300 health - care providers, or 300 hospitals, have contracted to provide medical care to patients with coronary disease with the National Health Service. The MOH controls the implementation of bedside arrangements, the supply of oxygen, the uninterrupted operation of mobile medical teams, monitoring, and health care facilities. In general, almost 76,000 beds have been opened in Ukraine for patients with COVID, of which 68,000 beds -- almost 90 percent -- are provided with continuous oxygen supply. In addition, the Ministry of Education is working on a mechanism that will allow health institutions to be constantly ready for any epidemics, pandemics and outbreaks and to have a permanent reserve of personal protection. The first wave stakes in the future will receive the cost of responding to the epidemic and will receive monthly funding, in fact, for these purposes. Measures and appropriate funding have been put in place to deploy the medical system in peak periods. Yes, a mobile hospital in the region of Ivano-Frankiv was opened to implement the decision of the DSS government, which was later moved to Hmelnicin, and temporary hospitals were also arranged in Chercas, Lutsk and other cities. Work in this direction in a continuous process, including yesterday at a government meeting, we have allocated an additional 25 million dollars to equip the mobile hospital with DSS, which has increased its ability and additional capacity. Paragraph 2.7. of the Social Protection Regulation, including improvement of working conditions. Medical personnel are definitely heroes who save the lives of Ukrainians every day, so proper support for medical personnel is an absolute priority for our government. The hospital’s allowances are paid in full, and this is discussed locally. I was able to see this for myself during my work trips to most regions. An average doctor’s salary in one hospital is about 18,000 dollars. I spend almost every work trip in one or two hospitals and I talk to doctors about the problem and the advantages they get to coordinate and correct the work that the government and the ministry do with the support of health workers. The government also defined the arrangements for the financing of insurance payments in the event of the death of medical workers, and this process was significantly simplified. In general, the Social Insurance Fund is responsible for the payment of one - time assistance to families who have been killed by COVID for nearly 200 million dollars. Paragraph 2.8 of the Ordinance refers to the support of socially vulnerable patients with coronary disease who are self-insulated. In accordance with government regulations, unprotected persons can seek help from social protection agencies, including a mobile supplement, and receive appropriate social assistance. Paragraph 2.9 refers to measures taken in the field of health personnel. At present, the Ministry is retraining to receive a specialization at the expense of the state budget in the direction of epidemiology, hygiene, and laboratory diagnostics. In order to promote the employment of graduates of the selected specialties, active guidance work is being done with laboratories, health departments of local administrations. In addition, the higher education facility procurement project provides for the preparation of state-ordered medical diagnostics and treatment technology. And work is also being done actively to update the standards for public health training. Paragraph 2.10 deals with ensuring effective investigation by creating electronic registers. On April 20th, the Ministry ordered the launch of an electronic surveillance system for infectious diseases -- a product that had been developed for quite a long time -- a system that had been introduced in all district-level institutions, and it would allow qualitative analysis of disease preparedness and where outbreaks were to be addressed by epidemiologists. Today, the system works in 230 health institutions, involving 750 epidemiologists. Paragraph 3.1. This is a 300 - percent supplement. We have Decree No. 246 and Decree No. 331, which actually regulates that payments of 300 percent are made both in emergency care centres and in other establishments that treat patients with coronary disease. At the same time, we also have supplements for those who do not work regularly with those who suffer from coronary disease. This paragraph was completely and completely implemented in the first place, since we consider it our duty to the Ukrainian medical profession. Paragraph 3.2 is the issue of social advertising and the target network of viral laboratories. The Supreme Council has registered a bill of the government amending the Advertising Act on social advertising and the prevention of coronavirus. In particular, I stress that the government and our international partners are constantly and actively disseminating relevant information in different formats: both in social advertising and in social networking, on television, and in printed publications. Another aspect. The Ministry of Health has developed a draft Law approving a state -wide target program for the development of a network of viral laboratories. Now he's working on it, and I'm sure with the appointment of a new minister, this process will certainly speed up. In addition, there is a strategy for ensuring biological safety, biological protection based on the principle of “one health” for the period up to 2025. Our strategy envisages the creation of biosafety centres, the strengthening of regional laboratories and their adequate funding, the creation of a necessary set of tests, medicines, an additional amount of expenditure for 2022-2024 to build a network of epidemiological control and biological security facilities will amount to more than 4 billion dollars. And last paragraph 3.3. This is also about a program of funding various measures to combat the pandemic and improve the capacity of the medical system. Nearly 4 billion dollars are allocated to local budgets to support regional health institutions. The increased funding of emergency medicine – more than 10 billion dollars is aimed at centrally providing patients with expensive medical supplies and medical devices, including the purchase of PLR testing kits, without charge for sending appropriate family doctors. More than 3 billion dollars are allocated to the Public Health and Epidemic Action Programme, where the cost of payments and testing is foreseen. The amendments adopted to articles 89, 90 and 91 of the Budget Code on the powers of local authorities, particularly in part of the payment of utilities and utilities and local health care programs. Since the beginning of the year, nearly 7 billion coins have been paid to hospitals to fight the coronavirus. Dear colleagues, I have now gone through almost every item of the Supreme Council's decree, which has been approved by Parliament. The vast majority of the things that are written there are done or done. Of course, I'm real. I see that there are many and many medical problems. The ministry and the minister face a considerable number of challenging and ambitious tasks. We will all perform them, and as Prime Minister, I will certainly insist. In the last year, the Ukrainian medical system has been transformed in a way that has not changed in all previous years. And we are grateful to the National Deputies, the Committee of Profiles, for helping us. We work together, we use your advice, we use tips, we really work together with the leading doctors, who also give their advice and advice. We are especially grateful when this is done constructively and without political populism. The country got a new minister yesterday, and we're looking forward to new approaches and even more intensive work both on pandemic resistance and on the transformation of our medicine. Thank you for your attention. According to the report, I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Please check with the rapporteur from the MPs and groups. It's not the hands, it's the buttons, Anatoly Igorovich. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u4	Please pass the word to your colleague Urbanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u5	Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! Good afternoon, Dmitri Alexanderovich! We have now heard such an open, very good answer and the Ministry of Health, as much has been done already and is planning new ambitious plans. And then I don't understand at all, and why did we take out the previous minister yesterday, or Thursday? Explain, please. Everything's fine now, and yesterday was bad. I don't understand anything. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. I was actually stressing that this is a joint work for both the parliament and the President of Ukraine, and the government, and the local self-government bodies, the local authorities, so this is a complex work that was done to overcome the consequences of the pandemic, particularly with regard to the implementation of those recommendations that were prescribed in the Supreme Council's decision. And with regard to the release of the minister, there was also a clear communication on the unsatisfying rate of vaccination in the state, the unsatisfying rate of supply of vaccines. This is one of the key factors that Parliament has been talking about, which has been signed by 150 people's deputies, who have called for the consideration of this issue, which I agree with, and which we have already discussed. So these are two different things that we're talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u8	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u9	Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the pandemic, we passed Bill 3219, which allowed medical purchases to take place outside the tender procedure without ProZorro. Mr. Raducci then promised that it was only for three years. For three months, and we already have a year and a half. And we already have a purchase of 135 thousand procedures for 35 billion dollars. And it's all out of the tender process. It's like the Bermuda Triangle where the money goes down. And I realize there's Decree 225 that's already gone up to 400. There's fast, there's abuse, there's medical equipment, there's repairs, and there's warm blankets, all you want. It's not just medicine and ZIZ. I ask you to review this ruling as soon as possible. It was Mr. Laska’s responsibility before. I was addressing him, but unfortunately, for today, everything is still out of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u10	It's about buying. All purchases are made through the "Mechanics", according to the law, and actually there are tenders. Regarding the purchase of drugs, medical supplies. We can carry them out in accordance with our international agreements and commitments through our international partners, as well as our international obligations. As far as Decision 225 is concerned. Well, let's take a look at your address, see what the decision is. If there are really precedents and opportunities to buy something outside of tender procedures, we'll make the right decisions on the government. Thank you for your request.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u11	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Mr. Michael Cimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u13	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u14	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for acknowledging the medical profession as heroes, they are indeed heroes. And the Fatherland faction supports all government initiatives and monogamousness in terms of protecting the medical sector, and medical personnel in particular. Three specific questions. First. Yesterday, Mr. Lazko refused to answer, and what about those hospitals that are not currently funded by the National Health Service? He worked on the previous minister's team and has to know the answer. And the second. When will there be a decision in the Cabinet of Ministers to extend the categories of hospital workers who receive 300 percent? This is about drivers, elevators, and other categories. The second question. Eutusek, a faction colleague, and other deputies asked questions about educational subsidies. Today, many teachers, not that they are not getting their health leave on time, are not getting enough wages for the benefits they need.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. In terms of funding. The funding is going according to all plans. There are no delays in the medical field right now. After a 300 - percent funding decree, I already noted in my report that 300 hospitals signed suitable funding packages, codified so - called packages, respectively, all medical personnel in the cadaver wards receive 300 percent without delay. Of course, there may be a human factor at the level of utilities. We, together with local self-government authorities, are investigating all these things. Regarding the financing of health facilities that you mentioned who did not sign the agreement. They all signed the agreements. There are separate establishments that are now receiving a separate subsidy but will be prepared with appropriate packages and the entire medical system will be financed through NSOs in the framework of the prepared, prescribed packages. We will work on this in accordance with the Ministry of Health. And I think the minister's answer will be exactly like that. Or was it supposed to be in that direction, at that angle. About educational subsidies. We're working with the Minister of Education. I am convinced that today we have no delays in paying wages or school leave. The vacation period is appropriate. And everything will be as always. There, in the June months, the teacher's leave payments began, and they would be made according to the funding plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u16	Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u17	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please pass on the word to Tistik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u18	Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u19	Dear Denis Anatolyovich, I have one question for you. We were with you in Lviv, and in particular, the question concerns the direction of medicine. A number of medical institutions were visited, one of which we heard about the support of the implementation of the bone marrow transplantation facility project in the community non-commercial enterprise of the Lviv District Council of the West Ukrainian Specialized Children's Medical Center. And that's where we have to fund from the government, from the profile ministry. With the previous head of the Ministry, we've heard such receipts that we're looking for DFRD subsidies or socio-economic development measures. I have a question: will the Ministry change its position on the development of an important medical approach to the budgetary programmes envisaged in the State budget for the ILO? And will we continue to seek money for health care through various such budget programs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rostislav. In fact, transplantation is one of the priorities that our government is implementing and Parliament is supporting. We are grateful for all the bills that have been adopted and allowed us to conduct a bone marrow transplant in Ukraine on the basis of OHMATDIT. And in Lviv, Mr. Rostislav, the first operations have already been performed. The first kidney was transplanted. And this practice continues. Thank you to doctors who really take courage and do. There's a young team. Victor Kirilovich, please continue this strategy for the development of the transplant. And it certainly deserves and needs support. So, of course, I ask the Ministry’s strategy to include these things. I also thank those national deputies who actively lobby for this subject in the good sense, because, I repeat, transplantation for Ukraine is a huge number of lives saved potentially, it is a huge economy where hundreds of millions of dollars can remain in the state for our medics, not to be exported to neighbouring or European countries. But the main thing is, of course, saving the lives of children and our Ukrainians because of these new technologies. So thank you for this, a very topical one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u21	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u22	Please give Inna Sussoon the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u23	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u24	Inna Sowsun, Voice. A few questions. Mr. Prime Minister, how many unused vaccines are there in Ukraine right now? The second question. What is the supply schedule for the new vaccines? Question three. In view of the low vaccination rates, epidemiologists agree that we should not avoid a new wave of disease. At the same time, however, most hospitals today do not have oxygen stations that supply oxygen continuously in the hospital, and the hospital spends time and money on the purchase of oxygen in balloons. Please announce the government's plans to establish oxygen stations in all hospitals. I would like to remind you that 40 deputies signed a bill on the allocation of money at the oxygen station. And question four. Can you guarantee that by the 30th anniversary of independence in Ukraine, there will be a critical need for ambulances? Now we need about a thousand extra cars to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u25	Thank you for your open questions. Vaccinations, supplies. So today there are 2.5 million doses of vaccines in Ukraine, more than 1 million people being vaccinated, about 50,000 of whom have received a second dose, and about 970,000 have received the first vaccination dose. The rest of the vaccines are properly distributed by region, vaccination continues. During the past era, 18,000 people were vaccinated, but the ability to protest is more than 80,000 vaccines a day. Regarding contracts signed. Pfizer has signed contracts of 21.2 million doses of vaccines, of which 1.2 million doses have been signed at the COVAX initiative. Following the COVAX initiative, 240,000 doses of vaccines have already been administered to Ukraine. By the end of May, almost 350,000 vaccines had to be delivered; in the third quarter, 500,000, other supplies in the third quarter, respectively. Novavax is 10 million doses, 4 million doses in August, then 2 million doses a month. AstraZeneca is more than 10 million doses, 6.8 million doses per COVAX, 2 million according to the Serum Institute, 1.2 million we expect from Poland, and under an agreement with the European Commission of 100,000, our partner countries also promise us. 500 thousand from the Serum Institute can be set up in May, June, July 500 thousand after that contract, which is signed, almost 900,000 already have been signed. After Sinovac – 1.9 million doses. And there's also a schedule: by May 26 - 500,000 doses and another 200,000 doses in early June. Balloons, I agree with you, we had a conversation with you, we need to switch to oxygen stations, and this has to be a strategy. It may take more than a month, but it needs to be implemented. With rapid medical assistance, funds have been set aside. Of course, I will insist that the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u26	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. I have been repeatedly approached by voters about what, for example, on the one hand, the party of power is now initiating a regulation on the preservation of gas transit. Of course, I support it because it is a five - year contract that gives $2 billion, $2.1 billion to Ukraine’s budget, on the one hand. And on the other hand, we're talking about vaccines, like KOVID-WAC at the Chumakov Center, SputnikV at the Gamalei Center, and EpiVacKorona at the Vector Center. We are interested, and the citizens of Ukraine are interested in and ask these questions, and they ask you. Why do we, on the one hand, buy goods for four and a half billion dollars a year, take a transit of $2.1 billion, and give up a high-efficiency vaccine? Are you condemning those MPs who make these transit decisions, or those people who want to be vaccinated with a high-efficiency vaccine? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u28	I would like to point out that imports of goods from the Russian Federation have declined five times in the last three years. As for vaccines and other things, in this case, I want to say that, as we said, first of all, there is no third stage of clinical research, no understanding of the effectiveness of these vaccines, so we don't have data on the effectiveness of these vaccines. But the key question is that we're not going to buy a vaccine in an aggressor country, it's an important medium, we've talked about this more than once in this room. So there are alternatives, there are world vaccines with an extremely high, tested, understandable degree of efficiency, security. And Ukrainians deserve to have vaccines that allow us to inoculate our citizens safely and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u29	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u31	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u32	Mr. Prime Minister, as I see it, your seat is already in the rostrum at all. It's a joke. But I have this question: is there now a state programme for the development of a national regional network of viral laboratories with a total capacity of more than 100,000 studies per day? That would be critical. The second question. Scientists at the National Academy of Sciences point out that the death rates from the Coronavirus in Ukraine are underestimated at least three times. So perhaps we should accept this reality and appreciate the other dimensions that we are dealing with in order to deal with these situations? And the third question is, it refers directly to veteran hospitals, many of which are closed to veterans, because they've been reshaped to counter the coronavirus, and a large number of veterans have neither the commission nor the treatment plans to confirm their groups. And in the near future, there's a big problem in this particular area. Please join me in solving this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Regarding viral laboratories and the ability to test over 100,000 a day, I've just reported that this indicator in Ukraine -- we're able to test over 100,000 a day. In general, building the capacity of the Ukrainian anti-epidemiology system and the presence in Ukraine of laboratories capable of developing vaccines and effectively countering them is one of the complex issues that require strategic development and strategic work on the part of the Ministry of Health. This is, by the way, one of the things that I think is unsatisfying at work. It's a complex anti-epidemiological, anti-epidemic work and strategy in our state to combat any epidemics, not just those that we've encountered right now. That is why Mr. Victor Light is facing the Minister of Health, and I am also stressing the complexity of the strategy to combat pandemics and epidemics, including the development of a network of laboratories, as well as the production of medicines in Ukraine. As for the mortality rate, I would like to point out that neither in the world nor in Europe does Ukraine include, like this cool information, there in the first ten at that rate. And here we have to deal with this in a professional way, obviously not in the half-minutes that I have. There are appropriate specialists, for example, I recommend that you go to Mrs. Natalia Vinegrad, she's very detailed, professionally, how a specialist can tell you this question, what is going on, what is the interdependence, or not, between the sick and the dead from various diseases. As for the MSEC and their ability to support the groups, I think that this is actually an area that needs immediate reform, and Mr. Lješk and I will work on this in the near future so that this is reformed, resolved and translated into a European definition standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u34	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please take a seat in the government's bed. And we move on to questions from the national deputies of Ukraine. Sign up for a question to the Prime Minister and the members of the government. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u35	Pass the word to Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u36	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u37	Thank you, Mr. Head! I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister not so much of a question as how much I would like to make changes to the pricing system in the question of gas prices for the population. Because we're seeing an average customs value of the import gas that's been declining lately and has hit less than $210. Remember, your predecessors had 339 and the price of gas was 8,550. Now, from May 1st, the price of gas for the population, on average, across the country, is now 10,000, 138 dollars. I'm stressing your attention, 10,000, 138 bracelets of delivery per thousand cubic meters of gas -- that's more than your predecessors had, where there were 8,000,548 dollars per thousand cubes. Instead, you reduce the amount of allocated subsidies that amount to just over 36 billion dollars. I have an offer for you either by decree or by draft law to settle this issue in order to take into account the characteristics of the gas, its own gas, and the fall in the price of the import gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. We're working with the Ministry of Energy right now, working with NAC Naftogaz. I'll remind you, in Ukraine, the natural gas market was fully functioning, so today the price is regulated by the market, not by corruption officials or schemes or anything else. So the question is how effectively to form the market price, that's what they're working on with Naftogaz. As you know, from May 1st, the annual product that set the price of Naftogazu for the population was less than 7.9 dollars per metre per cubic meter. Accordingly, Naftogaz works as you suggested, on other products, such as a three-year-old product that can have even better conditions and a more fixed and understandable price for the population. But there is also one month’s choice and one month’s product, and people can choose a variety of options and try to manage their household expenses accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u39	Mushroom Victoria Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u40	Denise Anatolyevich, we also have a big problem in the energy market right now, this is about electricity. That energy balance that was updated, unfortunately, I think it's also going to collapse, because we're going to have coal in the warehouses, and then we're not going to be able to count with the miners. And you know how difficult the situation is now in the coal sector. So it's still a big request to look at the energy balance once again so that the coal industry can implement its production so that we can bring about the coal industry today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. With regard to the update of the balance, I will now pass the word to the Minister of Energy, who is newly appointed. As far as coal is concerned. Traditionally, the preparations for the next heating season begin in May. We realize that now, at 900,000 tons of coal, we need to enter the heating season for a normal balance -- 2 million tons. As a result, coal must be accumulated, and coal miners must be paid for their work. And the government is fulfilling its commitments, we're paying that part of the grant that lies on the shoulders of the state for miners, we're conducting a dialogue with miners. Put your ass on. The situation is also normal now, as far as the situation in the field and preparations for the next heating season are concerned. And with regard to the strategy that you're talking about, in a fair transformation of coal regions, in principle of balancing the electricity market, I want to give the word to the Energy Minister, in order for him to say his vision, his strategy, what he's working on. It has also been a few weeks since the appointment. Please, Herman Valeriyovich, tell us your vision of how we move forward on the energy balance strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Ms. Victoria, there, by the way, we were just taking part with you, discussing developments in the coal sector, and we are now working on a number of documents, including new approaches to PSOs, including the concept of coal transformation. And together, we invite everyone to the discussion. This is happening absolutely openly. Therefore, all these work and appropriate decisions regarding the preparation for the heating season will be made in the near future. So I invite you to join us in the processes that are taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u43	Rostislav Mikolaiovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u44	Thank you. Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u45	Geo Leros. Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u46	I have a question for Mr. Lovechenko. February month is 4 billion 800 million dollars, March is 5.5 billion dollars, April is almost 7 billion dollars. This is the amount of VAT deficits that Ukraine's budget has not received. So I have a question for you as to a corrupter with experience, as to the "baptized father" of these VAT cuts: what is it that you do to make Jermak and Zelenski that you are not put in prison, but in the chair of the Minister of Economics and the First Vice-Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u47	I, the distinguished national MPs, the honourable colleagues, would like to take the opportunity to answer the same questions. If you're professionally speaking, all that's called is the negatives that the tax office has shown, and the positives in the single treasury account are found. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank the 25th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u48	Matusevich Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Edward Prosczek. Edward Proschtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u50	Please pass it on to Edward Prostlec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u51	Edward Proschtuk, 85th constituency, Carnation. I have a question for Mr. Ljaška, Minister of Health, regarding the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine. In the Ivano-Frankow region, medical care for patients with coronary disease provides 31 health care facilities, 8 of which are located in locations with a 25 - percent surcharge on tariff rates and salaries. Medical and other workers are entitled to a salary supplement of up to 300 percent, which also includes an increase of 25 percent. However, tariffs do not take into account the adjustment coefficient. So two hospitals receive the same financial resources for the services provided during the reporting period. However, a hospital located in a mountainous area would have to pay more for the work than another hospital, not located in a mountainous area. Thus, the issue and the insistence on changing the tariffs for health facilities that provide secondary health care and are located in mountain communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u52	Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u53	Good afternoon! Thank you for asking. We will review the matter with the National Health Service of Ukraine, and if there is a truly missed mountain coefficient, we will initiate changes to the relevant decision that regulates the medical safeguards program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u54	Thank you. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u55	Alexander Bakumov, city of Kharkiv Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. First. Well, if we already have a vaccine situation like this, please tell us why the government hasn't tried, given that in Ukraine we have a powerful system of microbiology and immunology institutions, for example, in Kharkiv there's a National Academy of Medical Sciences called Mechnikov, why haven't we tried to create our own vaccine? At least the powers we'd make so we wouldn't buy it, and we'd sell it. Have there been attempts by the government to determine whether we are capable of creating such a vaccine at all, and were there any such attempts? And the second question. Please tell me, two years have passed since the President has given the task of bringing the Kharkiv Air Force out of the crisis. Why "the train and now there"? Why is nothing being done? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Regarding the development of a Ukrainian vaccine. He met personally three weeks ago with Ukrainian scholars. We have two drugs in our clinical trials. Both the Medical Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Sciences and other scientific institutions are actively working on this, they're working with international institutions, organizations, so our scientists are completely capable of working and creating a vaccine. The question is in efficiency. If today there are vaccines that we can buy and vaccinate people by working in parallel with the Ukrainian vaccine and by developing in parallel the ability of the Ukrainian scientific system to develop vaccines for other cases, of course we're working on this right now, because at the beginning of the epidemic this ability was lost. Of course, more effort is needed, and this was one of the demands for a minister, the former minister of health. These were his promises to both the President and me. We had a number of meetings with scientists and a meeting. But as you can see, the Ukrainian vaccine was not developed. I now hope that the new head of the ministry will work on this direction more actively. About Kharkiv Aviation. You know, there's an order for Ann's planes for the first time in 15 years. The Ministry of Defense ordered three planes. In addition, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is now in the process of ordering, ordering, and intending to order additional aircraft. All of this has a direct impact on the restoration of the Antonov DP and also on the restoration of the work of the Kharkiv Aviation Company. Those fuses are ready at the Kharkiv factory. I was there myself, and we had a work trip there. They absolutely have a chance to be worked out, released as planes. We make every effort to make this happen. Confirming this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u57	Please, National Deputy Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, George Mazuras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u59	George Mazurashu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u60	Good afternoon! I have a question for the minister of youth and sports. Dear Vadim Markovich, Ukrainian cowards, or all the citizens who know the word "sport" are looking forward to the Olympics. We're hoping they'll happen, even if they're delayed for a year, but they will. Please tell us how is the preparation of our collective, our collection of various Olympic sports, or is everything well organized with vaccinations, with other problems specific today? And perhaps there are some questions in which additional help is needed, including by Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u61	Good afternoon! Thank you for asking. Regarding the training of our athletes, it is happening calmly, our athletes are preparing for the Olympic Games that will take place this summer. Since April, the vaccination of our athletes, our trainers, our doctors, all the teams have been vaccinated, the Olympics, and the Paralympics. All the equipment has been purchased to train our athletes, and our athletes are now holding final competitions inside the country, outside the country, training congregations, that is, everything is going smoothly. As far as help is concerned, thank you at all for your help. Everything you need to prepare for the Olympics is taken into account, the cost is everything, that is, thanks for your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u62	Thank you. National MP Molotoc Igor Fedorovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u63	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Request to pass the word to Constanceevich Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u64	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, there is a question addressed to you, in the context of your previous speech, an analysis of the state of vaccination and medicine. I'm going to ask you very much to take personal control of the question of salaries for secondary health workers. Because we know that the decision that was made to make the payments stopped its operation on April 1. And we go back to the fact that these are too low wages in such a critical situation. So please, this is not even a question, but a request first. And the second. Also, please take under your personal control the situation with the hospitals of war veterans in Ukraine. We have almost 30 of them, and the veterans have 150,000. And the underfunding of these medical institutions leads to our war veterans being in a very difficult situation. They cannot solve basic health problems. These are two requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u66	Thank you for your questions, both of which are extremely relevant. I will also ask the Minister of Health to take control so that we can work on the issue of pay and not give any attention at all to medical wages at all levels and in general. As far as the hospital is concerned. There is also a question at the section of two ministries: both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Veterans. Repeatedly, ministers had appropriate counsel on this matter. And I'm also convinced, first of all, that veterans are worthy of absolutely quality medicine, and not only in hospitals, but in any medical facility, and that's very important. Thus, it is important that veterans be able to get all the necessary medical care comfortably, comfortably at their place of residence. But according to hospitals, I think there should be a separate approach, a separate strategy. I also ask the Minister of Health and the Minister of Veterans not to let this question down, not to let it out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u67	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. Don't insist. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Laby Mikhail. Laba Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u69	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, good afternoon, congratulations! And I'd like to point out one thing. We always communicate with you, with ministers, but some communications sometimes linger in space with some ministries. I'm asking you to take control. Second year, please. He should serve the territory both against the flood and during the winter when tourists lose their lives in the resorts. Please note, and ask the new Minister of Infrastructure to pay attention to the crossing of the CPT – Lower – Higher-German, because it is a transit, a gateway to Europe, which requires the construction of this complex. And the third question is the Uzan National Park. Two years of no-dedicated leadership, please pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u71	Thank you. I just accept your question as a question of the MPs, we're taking him to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u72	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u74	Bobrovska Solomia
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u75	Good afternoon! Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to pay attention to this and take this matter under control. I see that Andrew Taran is not here today, but I wanted to ask the deputy who is present today, do they know of a letter from a committee of profile that deals with the responsibilities of Mr. Halimon, who is responsible for nutrition, particularly at the U.S.S.A.? Do you know, fellow ministers and MPs, that today, an 83% monopolist feeds the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the other hand, profiled to this firm? It was by means of Halimon that other firms that were unable to feed the Armed Forces of Ukraine today were rejected. Did you know that, in addition, after the profile committee, additional contracts were put in place to provide an increase in food prices and to check from the Ministry of Defence for the quality of food imported into the military? I ask you very much to stop accusing me of being a fairy, and to come with me to the military, I will show you all the worms and worms that bring with them meat to the military. This is disgrace and shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u76	I ask the Deputy Secretary of Defense to answer this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u77	Good afternoon! Thank you very much, Mrs. Solomia, for asking. Of course, we know that we are working on this subject and that we are conducting a test, including our audience service, and all of us are involved in carrying out a test and giving an objective result. But I will pass on your question to the Secretary of Defense once again so that we can finally report the results of this work to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hours of questioning to the government" are over. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you, distinguished officials. Dear colleagues, there's an announcement, please listen for one minute. There's been an offer from various MP factions and groups that we'll be working in a different format today, namely, cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 and cancel the Difference. So we'll finish the day-to-day discussion at 12:30, then the questions, and then at 1:00 p.m. the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will be closed. Is there no objection? I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:06:50]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u79	Dear Head, dear colleagues! In those disturbing, dramatic days of the occupation of Crimea at the end of February 2014, the ATR channel broadcast these events all day long in Crimea: the movement of Russian troops, the reaction of residents to these events. One protest rally of Crimean youths in Simferopol was remembered, mostly of course, by Crimean Tatar students. But one girl who held a poster in Russian said, "Putin, I'm Russian. We didn't invite you here, get out of the Crimea!" Then this girl answered the questions of the correspondents and cried and said, "I'm ashamed that I'm Russian." At that time, we sat in the studio and commented on all the events. And I remember when I said to the girl, "Daughter, you don't have to be ashamed that you're Russian, because the real Russian man is you, not the ones who came to our land with guns. You now stand up for the honor of your people, and you would now be proud of the great Russian Andrew Sakharov." So today, this great Russian, the greatest humanist of the 20th century, a courageous lawyer, who, along with the great Ukrainian legend Peter Grigorenk, has been led by a legal movement in the former Soviet Union for many years, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate is 100 years old. This person was decisively opposed to the occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968, the occupation of Afghanistan in 1979, defending all dissidents of different nationalities, including Ukrainian patriots, who fought for the independence of their country, and the Crimean Tatars who fought.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act. Is someone going to insist on the papers? No, it's not. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Intelligence (Registration No. 2415). Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:12:08]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives and the Senate of the Congress of the United States of America of the 117th call to intensify efforts to strengthen Ukraine and Europe's energy security through the general imposition of sanctions on the construction of the North Stream-2 pipeline (registration number 5520). We need to make a decision to put this issue in order of the day session, we need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[11:13:00]] For 282 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:13:23]] For 281 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:13:44]] For 252 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u81	The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u82	Good day again, dear fellows! The Ukrainian Parliament has always stood in the interest of the Ukrainian State. The Supreme Council took a principled position on the security and defence and territorial integrity of our nation in the east. The same position, the principle, it also took place in the struggle against the coronavirus and all the consequences it has and is unfortunately continuing to bring to our nation. Even today, during the "hours of questions to the government," we were looking into the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree. Today, another important challenge facing the Supreme Council is to fight for our energy independence, our energy security. And in this regard, Ukraine will still find it difficult to resist without international support. So today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering (I hope it will accept) the appeal of the Supreme Council to the United States of America, I'm sure it will be seen, heard and supported by other states of the world regarding the North Stream-2, which is both a political and an economic and an energy threat to many countries of the world. Thank you. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u83	The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 20 March 2021, discussed a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives and the Senate of Congress of the United States of America, 117th call for increased efforts to strengthen energy security in Ukraine and Europe through the general imposition of sanctions for the construction of the North Stream 2 pipeline. The bill proposes to draw the attention of U.S. parliamentarians to the danger of completing the North Stream 2 pipeline, which will become a hybrid war instrument led by the Russian Federation against Central and Eastern European countries, and undermines transatlantic unity. This can be prevented by strengthening the United States' sanction mechanism against this Russian Federation project, including by introducing additional sanctions against a key North Stream 2 company. So, honourable colleagues, please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and adopt the draft decision in general, and endorse the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the amendments and additions proposed by members of the Committee. In particular, the name of the decree and the Address should be given in the following wording: "The call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States to intensify efforts to strengthen Ukraine and Europe's energy security through the general imposition of sanctions on the construction of the North Stream 2 pipeline." And make appropriate changes to the text of the decree. In the first paragraph, add the word “all” to the word “Europe”; in the second paragraph, add the word “others” to the words “the countries of Central and Eastern Europe”; in the fifth paragraph after the word “in the region” add the words “and its subsequent militarization”. Paragraph 6 reads: "Implementation of North Stream 2" will finally solve the arms of the Russian Federation."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u85	Please sign two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u86	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. The North Stream 2 project is not about gas independence, it's not just about transiting gas through Ukraine. It's about Russian lobbyism, it's about exporting Russian politics for big Russian money to Europe. Ukraine will in fact become a free range and a space to test anything that has been done since 2014 on the side of the Russian Federation on the scale that it will be willing to do, because the South Stream begins to untie its arms in the southern flank, and the North Stream-2 solves its arms in the northern flank. Since 2015, the Parliament's previous vocation, the government, the President and everyone, and civil society have been able to stop as much as possible, with sanctions, including, in conjunction with Euro-Atlantic solidarity, the attempt to build the North Stream. And by now, we've heard from Russia's Gazprom that there's a probability that the North Stream will be underdeveloped. Dear colleagues, I have a huge request, including the Fifth Column, which is present in this room, to address together the Congress of the United States of America and together, by working together to get a position on the imposition of sanctions on the part of the United States to a key company that is involved in the construction of the North Stream-2. I call on groups of friendships, on leaders of groups of friendships to step up their efforts and hold meetings and discussions with leaders of parliamentary groups of other countries. And first of all, I'm talking to a group of friendships in the United States: remember, the North Stream is primarily Europe's gas needle. The sooner they realize it, the longer we'll have time to stretch time after the huge and massive escalation of the Russian Federation in eastern Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u87	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Parliament has always stood and must stand for the security of our country. Ukraine's energy security is one of the key issues facing the aggressor today, and the North Stream 2 pipeline is another tool of economic blackmail, blackmail not only against Ukraine, but also blackmail against all of Europe. So all civilized societies should demonstrate unity and common ground on this issue. Thus, this appeal by the Ukrainian Parliament today is very important and very relevant. And it is very important for us to be together with you, the Ukrainian Parliament, in this matter, to demonstrate unity. How, then, can we encourage the world’s companionship to support our country when we alone in this room are unable to demonstrate our ambiguity? Therefore, we want to expect that we will now vote on the matter, and it will not be overlooked, and it will receive the proper response of the world’s societies. So I urge all of you, colleagues in this room, to support this determination and to demonstrate this unity to the world's society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u89	Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank Dmitri Alexanderovich for his very timely initiative on the unifying position of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Supreme Council on extremely important issues for us, not just energy security, but national security. Because removing sanctions from the North Stream is Putin's invitation to aggression against our nation. Because the removal of sanctions is the conversion of Ukraine from an extremely important energy security partner for Europe to an ordinary importer, perhaps simply by storing gas in underground vaults. And this work needs to be coordinated daily. We can't have internal strife today. To make hostages of the state's external security from internal strife. I would like to point out that for five years our team has been holding defense against the construction of the North Stream for five years, the Supreme Council of the previous call. My articles in Germany alone were nine grand to form public opinion within Germany. We also see a huge danger in that the principle of nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine was inviolable. For the time being, all these questions are being discussed without Ukraine. And I firmly believe that our appeal to the Congress of the United States, to the European Parliament, to the leaders of the countries of the European Union still gives us hope to stop this dangerous scenario. Let us unite and vote! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u91	You're an outcast. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction is one of the co-authors of this project of determination and conversion and will support it. But I want to ask you: Is it too little or too late? Isn't the Supreme Council turning into diplomatic furniture once again that covers the estimates of those who should have done it earlier? This is not the time to say who's to blame. I want to take this opportunity to thank Ukraine for its strong two-party support in this issue of the United States Congress. In particular, senators from the Democratic Party of Menendez and Durban, senators from the Republic Party of Rubio and Cruz, the Ukrainian diaspora, those who work and work to take full advantage of the slightest opportunity to block the end of the North Stream-2. But, at the same time, I think, after a successful vote in favour of this decision, we have to set aside time for Parliament on individual committees to think about why, once again, the people's wisdom is "hope in second and not worse" has happened. Did we not expect too much of someone else to do the work we would have to do for us? Why has a year of mine been on the verge of endangering Ukraine’s national security? We have to do this job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u93	All those who wish to speak? Batenko's motive, Dunda after that, and let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u94	Thank you. Our MPs will certainly support this political appeal, but it's not just political, it's a matter of our part of national security. We thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who initiated it, it is timely. We also thank those U.S. senators who have now registered a bill to reinstate sanctions against all the participants in the pipeline construction. This is also a gas-splitting company, and the CEO of Mattias Varnig, a former associate of East German intelligence, close to President Putin, for whom sanctions must be imposed immediately, not restricted or recorded on them. So it is obvious that Ukraine will be saddened if the United States does not impose sanctions on operators. And we are therefore saddened and well known for giving Ukraine VAT to NATO at the Brussels summit. Our Parliament should demonstrate the unity of the two-party American political system, and today vote in favour of the constitutional majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u95	Dunda Oleg Andryovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u96	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I wanted to say that there is no economic relevance in these gas stations. I'll give you the numbers. The cost of gas, gas transit through Ukraine, is about one and a half billion a year. At the same time, the Russian Federation paid over 100 billion for the infrastructure to deliver gas to the Baltic! That's just the ground floor. What about the underwater part? I mean, he'll never get paid. The only goal they need is not the economy, it's the question of Ukraine. This is an effort to lower Europe’s attention to Ukraine. And so for us, if they start, the risks of national security go up a lot. So please support this decision once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u97	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives and the Senate of Congress of the United States of America of the 117th call to intensify efforts to strengthen Ukraine and Europe's energy security through the general imposition of sanctions on the construction of the North Stream-2 pipeline (registration No. 5520). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:29:39]] For 292 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of order is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to bring the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine into line with the requirements of the Constitution. ’ — Registration No. 5459. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:30:23]] For 238. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, David Georgiyovich, is invited to attend. I understand that, and about 5459, 5459-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u98	I've seen your trolling. The law is very simple. We have the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, it's really independent. But the Constitutional Court has admitted that, unfortunately, some of the rules of this law are not constitutional. In fact, the law is very simple: it reorders the NAB directly under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are two versions of this law: there is a law with this number and there is an alternative to it. We are also the authors of this law, the same composition of authors. We support an alternative. Why? I'll tell you, the difference is very simple. Previously on "The Walking Dead"... The composition of the competition commission was formed by the PNB, but constitutionalist lawyers say it could also be a potential risk in the future. So in an alternative, it's just that Kabmin is giving members to a competitive commission, and on the other hand, the international community is also giving its members to this competitive commission. So please support the committee's version, support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u99	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see Mom. I thought you were just gone. Then the National Deputy of Ukraine Mamka Grigory Mikolaiovich is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u100	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People! I will speak, with your permission, more essentially the bill, because there are no simple bills. Indeed, the previous two bills, and the alternate that was presented to me, speak of one decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But the Supreme Council of Ukraine should bring about and correct the errors that the court has pointed us to be constitutional. It's not half the decision-making that needs to be taken, it's the whole problem-cleaning process, it's the legislation that needs to be taken into account and regulated, and then the body will work. My bill, it's not simple. He first identifies the NAB as the organ of central executive power. Second, it changes the right to assume the position of director of the National Bureau from the age of seven, as it is now, by five years. Third. We are an independent democratic power. And in fact, over a year and a half ago, we got bangs from practical experience. I propose members to select the director of the NAB from the Cabinet of Ministers not to make restrictions, as the previous law, on the bill, only international representatives. Give permission to the Cabinet of Ministers, he has the right to grant as international experts (we do not prohibit this law), exactly as his representatives, because we can get into such trouble as the State Bureau of Investigation: international officials do not give representatives -- and the commission manager is not running. Second, change. Or, fourthly, change the external procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u101	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, my bill is basically the same as the bill authored by David of Arahama. But there is a difference between the original bill, which is to finally implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on August 28, 2021, which has been recognized as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, the decree of the President of Ukraine to appoint Mr. Sitnik as Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, in relation to which the Bill provides for a permanent termination of its powers. I would also like to point out that this is not a legislative novelty, because the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in its 5070 bill, which was also submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, insisted on the execution of the decisions by the Constitutional Court by putting an end to the term of office of the Director of the NABU. Thank you for your attention. Please support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u103	Thank you. Have all the authors spoken? Please sign up: Two for, two for, one for, one for, one for, one for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, two Discussion? Oh, the committee, I'm sorry. Head of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, Radina Anastasia Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u104	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy at its meeting reviewed the relevant bills and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 5459-1 and reject the rest of alternative bills. What does this bill propose? Identify the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau as the central executive body with special status and with the appointment of the Director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. My colleagues, I would like to point out that beyond amending the Constitution of Ukraine, this is the only way we can regulate the status of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. I hear questions from colleagues in the hall6 and what about the role of the Supreme Council in the appointment of the Director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau? I would like to point out, colleagues, that without amending the Constitution we cannot foresee the involvement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the appointment of the director of the anti-corruption office. A similar status, a central executive body with a special status, is now in possession of other bodies, such as NCRECR, such as BEP, a law that we recently passed with you, such as the National Anti-Corruption Agency. The bill 5459-1 ensures all the appropriate guarantees of independence of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, namely the appointment of a director as a result of a competition in which independent experts play an important role. At the same time, colleagues, the compulsory participation of foreigners in the appointment of a director of an anticorruption office is not involved. A comprehensive list of reasons for the dismissal of the director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, the prohibition of giving instructions to the body, the impossibility of the Cabinet of Ministers to revoke acts of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, or the removal of the Director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Accordingly, the committee on the first reading asks for the support of Bill 5459-1. Thank you very much, colleagues. And I'm sorry, with the shortening of the deadlines for making proposals for the second half reading, that's the committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u105	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u106	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Please pass the word to Aresonkov Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u107	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u108	It is clear from the reaction of the stormy hall that the bill is extremely important, which concerns both the entire Ukrainian society and the parliamentary corps. I want to emphasize that in some ways we are correcting the mistakes that were made in the previous composition of the Supreme Council. And, I remember, then the experts, the experts, pointed out the question that it was very important to write a bill carefully, that it was all about the beginning of the selection mechanism, the selection of a supervisor, and so on. All the moments had to be taken into account, but then a mistake was made, and today we came to the point that we should be extremely careful about the content of the bill. The Trust MP will support and vote for him because we understand that the main idea is to create the maximum conditions for the independence and independence of a serious institution such as the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the bill is trying to decide. And the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers will have a bearing on the process of appointment, the evaluation of the work of this anti-corruption body doesn't mean in any way that employees will be subordinated. It seems to us that the main tasks have been accomplished. That's why I'm counting on both the Trust MPs and all MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Podlasi Roxolani Andriyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u110	Please give it to Jonah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u111	Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Ionushas Sergey Kostinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on September 16, 20th, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled that the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau was unconstitutional. It is with you that it is our duty to bring into line with existing legislation and to remove the gaps that exist now and make it impossible to properly discharge their responsibilities to this very important body. I would like to point out that I am co-author of Bill 5459 and Bill 5459-1. So I'd like to say very briefly that we have to move forward, to match. And some criticism, which will certainly be heard in this room, can be removed between the first and the second readings. What are the main points proposed by Bill 5459? It is proposed that the status of NABU from the State’s law enforcement authority be changed to the central executive body with special status. It is predicted that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the special status of the NABU providing certain guarantees of independence. It is proposed that the Director of the NABU be appointed and released from office -- this is very important -- the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In doing so, it takes at least two thirds of the votes of members of the Cabinet of Ministers to free the Director of the NAB, which allows for the preservation of certain independence. Dear colleagues, the bill foresees that there is a possibility of monitoring by the commission, which will be independent, that the evaluation will be carried out by an appropriate evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities of the NAB. That's why, colleagues, I'm asking you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u113	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy Heratchenko Irina. Please, Sumar Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, you know, if there's two entirely different bills, the same authors, it's kind of like this kind of legislative "schizophrene." It's not okay there, it's ironic. But what does this say? This suggests that probably one of these projects was written not by these authors at all, but by those in whose interests this project is written, without heading 1, without heading 2, and without heading 3, the first bill, where the PNB would identify the people who would elect the Director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Our team created anti-corruption infrastructure. During Peter’s time, both NAZK and Nabu and SAP and the Anticorruption Court were created. These were new institutions, and it was in principle for us to be independent. In the last two years, we've been seeing efforts to take these structures under control, which is now being fought around the SAP prosecutor. We see constant movements around the director of the NABU. We will be consistent in our position. We believe that the independence of the NAB must be preserved. It must really be not a political but effective anti-corruption body. And of course, the Bill of Tier 1, the one who defined the committee, is most suited to these tasks, because the formula of the competition commission here is as uninvolved as possible. Well, you know, I can't hold on to the first bill. All the powers vested in the country would probably have to be eliminated by all the authorities of the state, and the funds would have to be directed towards the only effective body that would deal with all the issues in the country -- the OR, if we followed the logic of this first law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u115	Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u116	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Now I will not waste time on the numerous violations of the Rules related to the registration of this bill. I'm only going to stop at three fundamental points that we're going to have to talk to you right now. Well, first moment. The NAV was created as an independent state law enforcement agency, and the key words here are "independent" and "right-of-protection." This law cleans up as the independence of this body because it directly subordinates itself to the executive authority and also clears its status as a law enforcement authority because it becomes the central authority of the executive branch with a special status. So the very idea that there's a NAB, it's completely transformed into a completely different concept. One second. The six-member competition committee, which seems to be choosing the head of the NABU, does not actually choose the head of the NABU, because it is through its own decision of the two proposed candidates that the final winner of the competition is chosen. So once again, you and I are forgetting the concept of NAB as an independent and law enforcement authority, it becomes a subsidiary of executive power. Third moment. The main scientific office has made numerous comments that we need to correct in this bill. Given the three main points that I have now shared with you, on the first reading the faction of "The Fatherland" is not ready to support this bill, but on the condition that we correct with you the moments and observations that the GNEA has proposed, on the second reading, we will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u117	It's Jurchishin's motive. Anton Eduardoovich, I see you don't drop your hand like that. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, at last, they say, it hasn't been six months. No, it didn't. Because in fact, Bill 4211 with similar positions, which today is proposing to vote as leader of the majority faction, forgetting to call the number for which to vote, completely duplicates the positions that the faction of Voice has proposed immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision. Strangely, when it takes six months to wait, I'm sorry, eight months to slow down cooperation with our international partners. The bill fully reflects the concept of independence. It should not be manipulated by what internationalists recommend, since they have recently recommended Ukrainian independent experts. Therefore, we must vote and finally correct the mistakes that were made before. The Voice votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u119	Anton Eduardoovich Polakov. Last speech, then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we can talk a lot about the effectiveness of the NAB, about its director of corruption, but we all understand that these bills that you're going to vote for right now, they don't decide the main thing: they don't decide the conflict that happened after the Constitutional Court's decision. Because the automatic director of NABU should be released. But these bills don't decide. As far as I'm concerned. Your drafts that you're about to adopt are designed so that the director of the NABU will almost be able to take up this position, because there's a conflict with competitive selection. So let us immediately give him this position for life, and after death, let his children take up this position. I'm asking you to support Bills 5459-2 or 5459-3, and they're solving all these actual factions and questions about the appointment of the new director of the NABU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u121	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine (registration number 5459-1). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:50:54]] For 288 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The committee asked for a cut in time. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine (Registration No. 5459-1). This is according to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Please support and vote. [[11:51:43]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion, huh? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine to bring into line with certain legislative acts (registration number 4542). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:52:42]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the bill amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities from Childhood and Children with Disabilities on raising children with disabilities affected by explosive objects, the size of State social assistance (registration number 3573). On the rails. It's a second reading, there can't be a discussion here. No one insists on the papers? Nobody. Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities on raising children with disabilities affected by explosive items, the size of State social assistance (registration number 3573). Please support and vote. [[11:53:55]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. Cow Eugene Mikhailovna, from the procedure, do I understand? I already gave you my word. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I would like you to raise up the agenda and now consider Bill 5205, which provides for the professional development of creative theatre workers. In short, he cancels the restrictions on the theater’s creative workers to take creative vacations at their own expense for only 15 days. Why? Because gastropods, film shoots take longer. In this way we support the professional development of theatres and allow them to remain soloists of national theatres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u123	Thank you. Eugenia Mikhailna, you probably meant to change the order of the subject, right? Because we had a Motovilovite picked up yesterday. We're changing, aren't we? Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to change the order of the day's consideration of these issues so that we can now consider Bill Registration No. 5205. Is there no objection? And from what I understand, he's out of the question. I'm voting on a motion to change the order of the agenda. Please support and vote. [[11:55:39]] For 295 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs to create additional conditions for the professional development of creative theatre workers (registration No. 5205). Please support and vote. [[11:56:22]] For 305 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's a second reading in 116. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act to provide an effective mechanism for the provision of state aid to families with children (registration No. 3124, 3124-1). It is suggested that we consider it. Can we do that without talking about it? No discussion, all right. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Child Protection Act of Ukraine to provide an effective mechanism for the provision of State assistance to families with children (registration No. 3124). Please support and vote. [[11:57:33]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Pollution resulting from Industrial Activity (Re-reading) (Registration No. 4167). Are you ready to go? No discussion? No, it's not. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u124	I'm asking you to put on a roll.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u125	Wait, wait. Short-term procedure. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:58:49]] For 226 Decision taken. Bondarenko, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u126	I'm asking you to put on a roll. [[Video recording broadcast]] Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Pollution resulting from Industrial Activities is a first-reading law. In a subcommittee prepared for the re-reading of the draft bill, the comments, comments and recommendations of the GNEU, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union and the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, the National Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as the relevant proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies. The aim of the bill is to establish legal and organizational principles for the prevention, reduction, control and elimination of pollution resulting from industrial activities to ensure a high level of environmental protection through the introduction of an integrated environmental permit. Air pollution is one of the biggest environmental problems in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this law seeks to address the issue of industrial and environmental pollution for the next ten years. Dear colleagues, the law has been worked out, the law is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u127	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Oleg Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u129	Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u130	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for giving me the word. Dear colleagues, I want to continue. The main causes of environmental underprivilegedness are lack of respect for environmental law enforcement and the slow pace of the introduction of new technologies. The use of equipment will increase the risk of new accidents and emergencies, and environmental pollution will continue to take the lives of Ukrainians. Yes, since air pollution in 2016, according to the Institute of Health Assessment and Measurement, about 58,000 people have died in Ukraine. In comparison, during the first year of the pandemic, the Coronavirus died twice as many. The constant delay in modernization is increasing, widening the gap in technological and innovation development, because investment in the modernization of production in Ukraine is lower than in other countries, which reduces the competitiveness of our manufacturers. After making a European choice in 2014, we agreed to share European values and standards in order to achieve European quality of life. Dear colleagues, the approval of the 4167th Bill with other legislative instruments in the climate and industrial policy of the State will ensure the reduction of industrial pollution, the decarbonization of the economy, the improvement of energy efficiency, the development of renewable energy sources, the development of circular economy and the synchronization of the European Green Rate initiative. I am very much asking for the support of the bill (registration number 4167, completed). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u131	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, it is very symbolic that this bill we are considering with you on the Day of Endangered Species, when the whole world cares about saving nature. And it is clear that the topic of the environment, the topic of ecology, should be a unified one, especially for a country whose constitutional objective is to integrate into the EU and NATO countries, into the European Union. In fact, if we look at what a civilized world is like, environmental issues, environmental conservation issues are priorities. Remember the new president of the United States of Biden program, remember the programs of all the leaders of the European Union: ecology there is theme number one. And here yesterday, the country listened with interest to President Zelensky, for three hours, where he introduced, you know, a dream show about what the show would be like for 30 years of independence of Ukraine, but he didn't just tell you about the country of dreams -- there was no question of ecology there. In a country that was affected by the Chernobyl disaster, in a country where, as the head of the profiling committee correctly pointed out, we have absolutely exhausted resources. And even though we have very good legislation working on the need to provide appropriate criteria for industrial discards, it doesn't work, there are often corruption schemes involved that aren't tested. You know, it was a shock when Zelensky didn't say a word about ecology. I want to remind you that our team of our own time was the team that joined Ukraine in the first ten to the countries that signed the Paris Climate Agreement. Obviously, for us, the topic of ecology is a topic that touches on Euro-integration and Euro-Atlantic integration. We will uphold today’s law. And I want to remind you who knocked it down, that it is now being considered in a repetitive first reading: unfortunately, the majority, where many are servants of oligarchs, owners of factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u133	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, please the faction of the political "All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to a colleague at the Kucherenko Alexia faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u135	Alexy Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u136	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there's this phrase: "The road to hell is paved with good intentions." Of course, the Fatherland faction is in favor of environmental programs, we'd like to do the same as Greta Tunberg and other outstanding environmental programs to have flowers and birds singing around, but let's actually see what's going on today in Ukraine. And first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the National Security Council analysis of this bill, clearly. and a specific conclusion. The current draft is a threat to Ukraine’s economic security. Regrettably, even after preparing for the rereading of the draft law, the main flaws were not resolved. Please understand this bill gives archipous powers for subjective conclusions to the Ministry of Ecology, in fact, tomorrow to close any enterprise, any power plant, any enterprise in Ukraine that is still working and producing not only production, but also taxes. If we examine this bill in detail, we need to understand that normal standards are prescribed, but absolutely not prescribed, and how Ukraine can achieve this European goal. And by the way, countries such as Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, to this day allow their countries to deviate from European norms because they understand that they cannot stop the economy. Against this bill is: European Business Association, Security Council, Federation of Ukrainian Employers, Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, Ministry of Finance, etc. So, dear friends, let's not paint the baby with the bath and the water in it. That's why the Fatherland faction is still in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u137	Polack Anton Eduardowicz, then we go to the vote. Shahov, "Trust" didn't act either, okay. Polakov, Shahov, we vote after this. Polakov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we've already voted this bill, it's been failed, I don't understand what you're trying to do again, because it clearly states here that, first of all, it conflicts with some of the provisions of our Constitution of Ukraine; secondly, if you read it carefully, all the conclusions, as my colleagues have said, it doesn't help, and vice versa, it puts some of our industrial objects to their knees. So you, on the one hand, are yelling about supporting industry, investment, "invested" etc. and improving business conditions, and on the other hand, you're trying to kill what's still working during the coronavirus, during the economic crisis, you're putting on your knees the rest of our industry. I don't think this bill of support makes any sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u139	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u140	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely, the situation in Ukraine in general with ecology is critical in all fields, in all. But so far this bill has not been supported by many associations. Today, we have no right to leave and push small, medium and large businesses. This decision was made in Europe in 30 years. 10 billion dollars is 280 billion dollars -- it's going to be very difficult to find that upgrade. We need help today, as Europe helps business from all sides, and it helps during the crisis, the pandemic, during the economic crisis. And at this point today, the question is, "turn your hands around" to those people who give and work white in the state. It is not possible to resolve the difficult issues that exist in the State within such a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u141	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Pollution resulting from Industrial Activities. This is a rereading of the first reading. (Registration number 4167). Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:11:24]] For 213 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a motion to refer to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Let's see the factions. Ready to vote? I'm willing to vote for the re-reading of Bill 4167. Please support and vote. [[12:12:05]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question of the agenda is. He's a procurator. Yeah, from the procedure? Zavodnievich Alexander Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u142	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Colleagues, there is a proposal to change the turn of the bill, namely, to consider now a very important bill 4626, which is a draft of the Ukrainian Military Chaplainship Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, a proposal has come to consider the issue of registration number 4626, the Military Chaplain Service Act. I'm putting the above-mentioned motion to vote. Please support and vote. [[12:13:11]] For 270. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:13:32]] For 238. The Secretary of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, is invited to attend. I understand that, both from the committee and from the authors, right? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to point out the importance of this bill. Although most people here understand that, because the bill was signed by 54 national deputies from different political factions and groups. I've recently returned from the front, and, I want to tell you, our military officers are constantly under fire, as no one needs moral support and the pre-pastrian care that military chaplains can provide them with. I know that because I was a commander, too, and I know it's not out of the blue. The military chaplains went first, without social guarantees, without anyone calling them, and they're still supporting our defenders. And that's why it's a matter of settling their activities long ago, and that's what this bill is about. The draft law provides for military chaplains to be representatives of various religious organizations, since military chaplains are professionals who, regardless of their religious affiliation, will be able to provide pastoral care for all religions. That is the international experience. Military chaplains serve in almost all NATO countries. And this is very important for us now, for our national security and for our journey to NATO. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and work it out together for the second. Thank you for your attention. We'll support our protectors. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u145	Thank you. The chairman of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Alexander Mikhajlovich Zawidnevich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u146	The National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Military Chaplainship Act at its meeting on May 20, 2021. As a result of the discussion, members of the committee supported the comments made to the bill, namely part four of article 4, which reads: "The border number of military and military chaplains for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian National Guard, the Ukrainian State Border Service cannot be lower than 0.15 per cent of the border number of these military formations; ( b) exclude part three from article 7. The above proposals shall be taken into account by the committee in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of its first reading, that the draft Ukrainian Military Chaplainship Act be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u147	Thank you. Please sign two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u148	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, we actually have a unique chance to support a really right and good bill. I won't be spending much of your time, I'll be brief. I want to support the co-authors of the bill and say the following. The contents and foundations of the bill are based on the principles of the modern ideological, spiritual, and moral strengthening of our military. It's worth noting that the adoption of the bill takes on a successful experience, more than 200 years of experience from the United States, Britain, France and other countries. And, more importantly, in the form of most NATO member countries, there is a military chaplainship. I would like to point out that this bill provides for a ban on the issue of arms and ammunition to military chaplains. They cannot be involved in alternations, in outfits, in official investigations, and in other nonconformity with their official duties. It is important to note that the draft law has taken into account the interests of all parties to which the future bill will be extended. And all the members of the various religious denominations, the members of the State Border Service, the Ministry of Defence and others, including, I would stress, the military chaplains. Therefore, the draft law was also discussed at the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches. And this bill clearly reinforces the rights of the military as defined by the Constitution, including the right to freedom, religion and the satisfaction of the spiritual and religious needs of our defenders and their families. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u149	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u150	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, our men of war! The time has come for you to return what is rightfully owned by anyone who protects Ukraine. You have faith in protecting our lives. And this tradition came from Zaporozhye Sichi. Yes, the portable chapel went with the guards, went into battle, and the minister was among all those who protected Ukraine. And so it will now be here and now in our country with you. I call upon all the national deputies to allow the Bible, Thor, the Koran, to be among our military, and with them, the sacred books, to be chaplains. And so that we don't forbid it, but rather support their activities, give them the status of military personnel, give them the opportunity to be proud of every Ukrainian soldier that mother and father who assigned him to the army, along with him or her, have rekindled our faith that we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u151	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u152	Please, Sergey Rachmanina's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u153	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the appearance of this bill is God's industry. To support this bill is God's business, whether you believe in God or you don't believe in it or what you believe. This is a bill, its approval is the least we can do to support very brave and very bright people who support our fighters on the front. I am happy and delighted that I personally know many of these people. You and I have only one option: to support this bill. I don't want any unnecessary words. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u155	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u156	Please give the word of Vátrovitch Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u157	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u158	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In today's war, the Russian army can win, not the post-Radians army that we inherited in 1991, but only the real Ukrainian army, which began in 2014. The Ukrainian army with modern weapons, the Ukrainian army with modern technology and approaches. And at the same time, the Ukrainian army, which is resisting and developing Ukrainian military traditions. One such Ukrainian military tradition is the military chaplainship that was in the armed formations of Ukrainians during the 1917-1921 Ukrainian Revolution, which was in the Ukrainian rebel army. We have heard that today, but I will repeat that the military chaplainship is not only a Ukrainian military tradition, but also an international experience, particularly the experience of NATO countries. So I am very happy that this bill is being considered today. And hopefully, eventually, it'll be approved. Because we know that this bill has also been discussed in the previous Parliament. I want to thank those colleagues who worked on this project. I am pleased that we have continued to work on this project, especially with the participation of representatives of various Ukrainian churches. I hope it's finally approved. Our faction will vote in favour of this project as a basis, but we do have a point, actually, of the kind proposed by the committee. So once again, I ask you to support this project as a basis. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u159	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we vote. Oh, Ruddick, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u160	Dear Mr. Head, the Honourable Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Honourable National Deputies! I especially address our heroes, our protectors and our protectors. This important day has finally come when we will restore historical justice, for in our Ukrainian military formations there must be a spiritual leader. And the clergy have been helping our defenders and protectors for many years, especially during the war with the aggressor. So today I am addressing you national deputies: I ask you to support and legitimize our clergy in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Praise our protectors! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u161	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I have heard here in the towers that this bill contains signs of a violation of the principle of separation from the State. And when these people were on the front line at 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and this year, it's not a violation of the principle? That's why we all vote yes. Yes, this edition contains some questions that need to be further developed in the second reading. But we have to give people who break themselves away from their families, have the main parishes somewhere in the West, Central, South, East Ukraine, they're all going straight to the fore in order to protect the souls of our military. We vote in favour, MP Party for the Future, and we invite all colleagues to join this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u163	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading according to part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:26:45]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 12:26, I suggest you proceed to reading the questions. But please don't split, nine requests to the President who need a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u164	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! So during the plenary week, 103 MPs were asked, including: 6 requests to the President of Ukraine; 2 to the Supreme Council; 40 to the Cabinet of Ministers; 45 to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies; and 10 to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine. Of the past calendar weeks, 105 parliamentary requests have remained unannounced, of which 3. A total of 208 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. That's why we're going to have to vote on nine parliamentary motions to the President right now. So, honourable colleagues, we are looking at an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Veacheslav Rublov's request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine (death) to the soldier of the Idar Battalion, a member of the Dignity Revolution, Hamraev Rustam Shonizovich. Please vote. [[12:28:25]] For 284 There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:28:52]] For 287 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a request from a group of national deputies (Bobrowski, Kostenka, and others). A total of 10 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the deterioration of the food security conditions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by the Ministry of Defence. Be my guest, colleagues. [[12:29:30.]] For 248 There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:29:54]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an open roll vote in support of the request of a group of national MPs (Prashenka, Fedena, and others). A total of 60 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to a scout of 137 separate battalions of marine infantry, Sergeant Žuravl Jaroslav Vasilovich (mortal). Please vote. [[12:30:37]] For 290 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a previously supported MP to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:31:01]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, support Alexander Sukhov's request to the President of Ukraine for the commitment of Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration leader Hayday S.V. In order to complete the work on the site, the capital repair of the premises of the therapeutic corps of the Rubižan City Central Hospital in the Luhansk Region to accommodate the emergency care department of patients with acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the coronavirus, the costs of subsidies from the state budget. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:31:56]] For-166 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:32:19]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The next MP's request is for an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Roman Kaptielov's request to the President of Ukraine to restrict the supply of drinking water to the residents of West Donbas. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:57]] For 265 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:33:23]] For 277 Decision taken. Another very important parliamentary request. There is an open-ended vote in support of Julia Timoshenko's request to the President of Ukraine for the protection of peasants against raiders whose criminal activities are coordinated by officials of the state authorities. Please vote. Julius Timoshenko. [[12:33:59]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. No words. An open-ended roll-call vote supports Solomonia Bobrowski's request to the President of Ukraine regarding the application of special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to individual foreigners threatening Ukraine's national security. Please vote. [[12:34:38]] For 233 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Vote please, national deputies. [[12:35:03]] For 259. Decision taken. It is an open-ended vote to support Oksana Savichuk's request to the President of Ukraine on the use of response measures to protect the rights of workers in the Ukrainian State Engineering and Technology Institute of APC Transport in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Please vote. [[12:35:42]] For 233 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:36:06]] For 232 Decision taken. Hello, Mrs. Oksana. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[12:36:45]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, another request, which is already parliamentary, is not a presidential request. Helen Condratuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the verification and reporting of the presence of Andria Aksion's citizen's passport from the Russian Federation. [[Applause]] This request was not for the President of Ukraine, but simply a parliamentary request. But I'm glad you supported him. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I continue to read the questions. Michael Bondar to the Attorney General for the illegal possession of immovable property belonging to the VAT of "Brodirimbud" on private property rights. Victor Myalik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the current average repair of the road in general use of the state value T-18-17 Berežnica-Stenan-Klevel-/M-06/ in the area of km 18 + 450 - 26 + 450. Victor Myalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the financing of the reconstruction of educational institutions in the province of Ravenna. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of the rapid rise in consumer prices. Alexander Kunickýk to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the conduct of the inspection of compliance with the tasks of the marine training and certification centres. Tetjana Ryabuha to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the conduct of a review of the activities of the Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of the Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions in the Sumski district of the Ministry of Justice (Summa City). Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of a public educational institution. Oksana Savchuk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the use of response measures to build a complex for the processing and disposal of solid household wastes with a filter treatment system in the Ivano-Frankiv region. Rostislava Tistik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the deficit in the costs of education subsidy in the Lviv region. Alexander Kovalova to the head of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority regarding the hiding of the head of the administration of Rudy S.L. information about drawing him to administrative responsibility for driving an alcoholic drink. Alexander Kovalova to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence on the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions). Alexander Kovalova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the preparation of personnel for the protection of the Ukrainian authorities and officials, who are subject to the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaner of Power. Aleksandra Kovalova to the Attorney General about the criminal responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority for providing information that is knowingly false in response to a parliamentary appeal. Aleksandra Kovalova to the Attorney General about the illegal issue of firearms by the head of the Ukrainian State Security Authority, totalling 899,491 bracelets. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the stations of Ukraine in the rural area. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the pay of workers who are employed in the work of eliminating COVID-19's acute respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to revitalize the process of signing the Agreement between the Governments of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on the opening of the international Adamchuk-Save Pass. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to change the VAT system to local budgets, with a view to establishing a fair principle regarding its distribution. Igor Guza to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the need to transfer individual land from state property to the municipal property of Vladimir Volin City Territorial Society. Group of People's Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to head the National Property Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the Accounts Chamber, the Director-General of the State Industrial Enterprise "Cravbaproprostvodanje" on specific issues concerning the activities of the State Industrial Enterprise "Cravbaprostvodnje". Alexander Sukhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine with regard to the fulfilment of the requirements of effective legislation in the field of environmental and technological security by the authorities and entities of the Luhansk region. Anatolya Kostucha to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of children with rare (orphan) diseases, medical supplies, and food for special diets. Groups of National Deputies (Costucha, County and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the amendment of food standards in educational establishments. July Lighthouse to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to shut down residents of House No. 54 on Lomonosov Street in the city of Lozov, Kharkiv district. Arsenija Pushkarenka and Tetjana Grishchenko to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the investigation into the attack on the deputy of the Korostene City Council of the Nedaskov region of Nedaskovy Andrija Mikolaiovich and the need for an immediate solution to the problem of importing garbage into the territory of the Corstene community. Alexia Kovalova to the Herson City Head on the difficulties involved in implementing the Ukrainian Law No. 1358-IX at the local level and inability to obtain adequate assistance from employees and natural persons. Alexia Kovalova to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General's Office, for the independent investigation of the conduct of the Dniprov police department of the Herson Police Department of the HUNP in the Hersonian region. Groups of National Deputies (Kovalova, Fedienka, and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Herson District State Administration, the Office of the President of Ukraine on possible illegal actions and/or the inaction of the head of the Natalia Pippa to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need for the cost of salaries paid to employees of Lviv education in 2021. Natalia Pippa to the head of the Ivano-Frankow District Authority on the debt of salaries paid to teachers of the Dolin City Territorial Society. Artema Cnermoorova to the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine, Ukrainian State Property Fund for the Privatization of the DWAT "Dimitrovogluklavtrans". Gennady Watzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service for the protection of the rights of children with orthonic diseases to medical care and special care. Hennady Watzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, State Foreign Service of Ukraine for the protection of citizens' rights to education facilities. Groups of National Deputies (Krivosheeva, Laby and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Attorney-General for the reopening of pretrial investigations into the falsification of the election of Ukrainian National Deputies in the one-man election district No. 69 in the consecutive election of the Ukrainian National Deputies on 21 July 2019. Groups of National Deputies (Losinsky, Gerasimova, and others) to the Kyiv City Head on the implementation of measures to honor fighters for Ukraine’s independence. Groups of National Deputies (Losinsky, Gerasimov and others) to the Constantine City Head for the prevention of pressure on the head of the education administration of the city of Constantine. Bogdan Torochtiya to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Association of National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine, regarding the provision of insurance services to AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Bogdan Torochty to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade, Agriculture of Ukraine, Association of National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine on specific issues of AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Bogdan Torochtiya to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade, Agriculture of Ukraine, Association of National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine on specific issues of AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Bogdan Torochty to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade, Agriculture of Ukraine, Association of National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine on questions about the organizational structure of AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Sergia Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the need for local social protection authorities to communicate data with the electronic information resources of the State Tax Service of Ukraine and the Pension Fund of Ukraine. Sergey Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of constitutional rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of their freedom to exercise their property. Sergey Demchenka to the Attorney General for the illegal construction of a gas station in the Polygonny Street, 11, Dniprovsky Research Area of Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Demchenka to the Attorney General for the illegal mining of granite in the village of Voiloque Dniprovsky of the Dnipropetrov region. Sergey Demchenka to the Attorney General for the illegal registration of the rights to a gas station on Sukhomlinsky Street, 70-H in the village of the city-type Slobojansky Dniprovsky district of Dnipropetrovsk. Alexia Zmerenecki to the U.S. State Tax Service on the purchases of software registers for accounting transactions. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Head of the State Special Protection and Information Service of Ukraine for the Protection of the State Information Resource. Groups of National Deputies (Sternichuka, Ivanisova) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on illegal activities and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of agricultural land to the municipal property of the Borodin Village Council of the Bologna District of Odessa. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen the social protection of citizens affected by the accident in CHAES. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Friz and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for clarification on the results of the request by the State Audit Service of Ukraine for expenditure from the COVID19 Acute Respiratory Disease Fund, caused by SARS-COV-2, and its consequences. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova, Frez) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the verification of information from the Ukrainian State Audit Service on the results of the defence. Auditing expenditures from the COVID-19 Acute Respiratory Disease Fund and its consequences for officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for criminal corruption. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Klimpush-Cincadze and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the National Grand Building Program project from the construction of a new sewage treatment line with a production of 50,000 cubic metres per day in the city of Uzhgrad of Zakarpat. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Friz and others) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to address the current problems of medical and other workers involved in coping with the effects of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2. Bogdan Kitsak to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the construction of a sports complex in the territory of the Grishkovetsk community of the Žitomir district. Bogdan Kitsak to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the capital repair of the roof of the A3091 military sports complex. Bogdan Kitsak to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the transfer of objects of the "Korostishiv Spirit Combine" to the property of the Andrushian territorial community of the Žitomir region. Bogdan Kitsak to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine for the creation of the "DIA Centre" in the Rygorodorecki community of the Žitomir region. Anna Speedhod to the Mironov City Head on the allocation of the land of the participant of the fighting action, Gregory Sukachu. Oleg Kulinić to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, to contribute to the resolution of issues relating to the urgent conclusion of contracts by the National Health Service of Ukraine with the municipal non-commercial enterprise Zinkowska City Central Hospital, to packages of medical guarantees in 2021. Peter Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an improper examination of the MP's request for information on the land of agricultural property. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of the taxation of utilities. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district government to finance the current average repair of Adamovka - Zynkov’s highway. The Sofias of Fedina to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Regional Development Fund for the continuation and completion of the construction of USA II-II was in the village of Shuparka, in the Certkow district of Ternopil district. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to pay off the debt on salary to members of the VP "VolinVativetrans". Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to withdraw or target draft Bill No. 5371, which severely restricts the rights of employed workers. Igor Goose to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Volin District Council on the problem of underfunding the area of vocational and technical education of Volin region. Anton Yatzenk to the head of the Department of Public Health in Cherkas region on the provision of information on the enforcement of sanitary legislation by the private institution of preschool and general secondary education "Ukrainian Children's Academy" and the private institution "Ukrainian Agrarian List". Anton Yatzenka to the director of the private preschool and general secondary education institute of the Ukrainian Children's Academy for Information on the Enforcement of Sanitary Legislation of Education and the Compliance of License Conditions for the Conduct of Education by the Private Institute of Preschool and General Secondary Education of the Ukrainian Children's Academy. Anton Yatzenka to the director of the Ukrainian Agrarian List for information on the enforcement of sanitary legislation for educational activities and compliance with the requirements of the licence requirements for the conduct of private education by the Ukrainian Agrarian List. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Kostuka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to review the question of the assignment of the land of the People's Territorial Community of the Žitomir Region to radioactively polluted areas, the decision to allocate additional funding for extended medical care and the payment of debts for the loss of property to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Groups of National Deputies (Korolevska, Solod) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of arrears from salaries paid to employees of the State-owned Selidivogil company and the creation of conditions for state support for coal-based enterprises. Sergia Dunayeva to the Head of the Accounting Chamber for the conduct of a pre-planned financial audit of the use of state budget funds allocated in the 20th and January 21st years of the Luhansk Regional Military and Civil Administration, the Lysician City Military and Civil Administration, and the Securogenetic City and Civil Administration. Oleg Kulinić to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the possibility of introducing a moratorium on the promotion of housing and utility tariffs before the completion of quarantine and the review of tariffs from May 1st 21st. Roman Kaptielov to the Attorney General for the conduct of an audit of the activities of the State Interregional Water and Channeling Company, Dnipro-West Donbas. Groups of National Deputies (Vasilevska-Smagluk, Kachura, Plačkovo) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation into the murder of Ukrainian explorer Holocaust. Anatolya Kostuj to the Acting Director-General of the Shareholders Association "Kharkovoblanergo", Head of the Government of the Shareholders Association "Chernihiwoblanergo", Head of the Shareholders' Association "Sumioblanergo" on the procedure for joining new subscribers to the power grids. Dmitry Kostuk to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Žitomir district administration for the reconstruction and expansion of the area of the literary and memorial museum of the Forest of Ukraine in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. Sergey Nagorniak to the Cherkas District State Administration on the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Cherkas District Public Administration to pay off the arrears of wages in enterprises, institutions and organizations in the area. Anatolya Kostucha to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utility regulations in the area of violation of the Mikolaivoblblönergo district utility license conditions for the conduct of commercial activities in the transport of thermal energy. Sergey Nagorniak to the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Private Shareholders Association "The Ukrainian Energy Saving Service Company" ("Ukresco") for free transfer to the state ownership of the PAT "Chercasioblanergo" stock package, which belongs to the PRAT "Ukresco". People’s Deputies (Krivrukkina, Koravchenka, Zakharchenka) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to medical care. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on ensuring control over the efficient use of budgetary resources. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. Please, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, another statement has been made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Krulko Ivanovich. One of them is speaking, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u166	Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich. A statement. In view of the absence of the decision of the FARC faction to vote in favour of the decision to appoint the Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister, please consider our votes "retained". National deputies of Ukraine: Eutusek, Puziyczuk, Maidich, Dubil, Krulko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-21-m0.u167	Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
