ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to prepare for your electronic registration. I would like to remind you that once you have started the registration, you need to touch the sensor button by holding the sensor button, pressing the green pros button, and keeping these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, until the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:16]] There are 196 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I have a request to the faction and group leaders before we begin today's meeting, to come up for 15 minutes, to meet with me, because I have a question to discuss. Please, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, good day again. We concluded our meeting with factions and groups. As you've seen, the first question we have is the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian national deputy. Dear colleagues, understanding all the controversy on this issue and the various things that have been said on the air, I have informed the factions and groups, and I inform the Hall that yesterday I have addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus with the question whether there are any legal grounds that prevent Mr. Aksionov Andrija Anatoliovich from taking an oath today from the Ukrainian National Deputy? The official answer is in my hands. According to the statement. Taking into account the fact that the Central Electoral Commission's Decree on the Registration of the People's Deputies of April 27, 2021 No. 165 on the Registration of the People's Deputies of Ukraine Aksionova A.A., elected at the interim elections of the Ukrainian People's Deputy on March 28, 2021, in the one-maned constituency No. 50, submitted to the Supreme Council, this decree, and the corresponding provisional testimony of the Ukrainian People's Deputy is issued by the Central Electoral Commission. Ukraine’s national deputy is the basis for an oath made by the elected person of the Ukrainian national deputy. I have no legal basis for not accepting this issue and not considering it. Therefore, honourable colleagues, honourable national MPs, on April 27, 2021, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputy elected to the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputy on March 28, 2021, in the one-man election district No. 50, Aksionova Andrija Anatoliyovich. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Aksionov Andriy Anatoliyovich, please, is invited. Since the rostrum is locked, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u3	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Oleni Constantine Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. You know. Let me also say a few words today from the presidency of the Supreme Council. This is really a controversial question, which has now taken place, the acceptance of an oath by the People's Deputy of Aksion. I ask you to consider this as a public request to the Head of the U.S.A. about whether Mr. Aksionov actually owns another country's passport. Accordingly, we are asked to give us an official explanation of this matter, which I will surely inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine and every national MP on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u6	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the national MPs with proposals, statements, messages. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. Dear colleagues, let's sign up for the performance. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Scorch Mikola Leonidovich, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u7	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In fact, two years ago, an active president of Ukraine took an oath on this rostrum. I had the honour of being a member of the previous call to be present in the hall and listening to what Vladimir Alexanderovich said, promising to fulfill all the electoral promises with which he went to the elections and for which I, as a second-round voter, gave my vote. It's primarily the question of restoring peace and territorial integrity of our state, it's the question of lowering tariffs and fighting poverty, it's raising the economy, it's a lot of other issues. Sadly, two years later, we see quite another. We see that the achievements have been achieved by the so-called gambling law, the so-called Agricultural Market Act, the totally uncontrollable bandit privatization, the Supreme Council has even been deprived of control over this privatization. All of this is seen as achievements of today’s authority. Instead, in order to talk about achievements that are not there, the President would have to understand that he really had a serious responsibility and people were expecting a completely different one. We see authorities, instead of making pre-election promises, unleashed a total battle against the opposition, with our political power, "The Opposition Platform for Life", with one of the leaders of our political power, Victor Medvedchuk. We believe that our political power, "The Opposition Platform for Life," that power still has time, still has an understanding of its responsibility to the country. It has to stop political repression, it has to really demonstrate the political will of society and the world to restore peace in Donbassa, to lower tariffs for our citizens, to restore the economy, to lower the degree of external governance of our state. If all of this is not done, if we observe what we have just seen in this rostrum: absolute disrespect for colleagues, for the Supreme Council, then I see very pessimistic prospects for our state. And I grew up in Ukraine, I was born, and I see the future of my children right in Ukraine. From the President, the future of our state depends on the Supreme Council, we need to understand that this second anniversary of the President's presidency should be a really starting point for correcting the mistakes of the previous two years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u8	The word is given to the national deputy of Kishilev, Dmitr Davidovich, instead of the national deputy of Kaptielov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Last week, an unprecedented event occurred: Ukraine signed an agreement with France on the purchase of locomotives. And it shows that it contains a 35 percent localization requirement. This means that we will not just pay for imported goods, but that Ukrainian companies will provide 35 percent of the crevices, jobs, and services for these locomotives. Thousands of Ukrainian manufacturers and engineers will receive jobs and wages, and cities and statesmen will receive additional income. And these are jobs, and we have taxes here in Ukraine, not abroad. I have not yet seen the text of the agreement, but officials from the Ukrainian and French sides have made appropriate statements. And we're looking forward to this agreement here in the Supreme Council for ratification. And I'm convinced that in the case of clearly defined localization requirements, this agreement could be supported, with localization of production, not service or anything else. And I urge everyone to be careful that these localization requirements are clearly stated in the contract between the host entities. Currently, Ukrainian companies are able to locate locomotives at up to 55 percent, so this contract is being implemented, where the capacity of Ukrainian motorists is limited. The manufacturer of the training and the experience of cooperation with the French manufacturer will contribute to their modernization. I have to say that at first the French company offered a localization of only 15 percent, and the Ministry of Infrastructure reported in response to my MP's request. But during the negotiations, localization increased to 35 percent. It is very evident that colleagues who are responsible for working with European partners feel and feel that localization is impossible and European partners seem to be against it. And the IMF, which led these negotiations, in the active position of the heads of the parliamentary committees of the economy and transport, has proved that, no, it is possible, and has reached the conclusion of an agreement that is favourable to both sides. Moreover, the minister of economics, finance and reconstruction of France, in his interview, pointed out that the demands of the President of Ukraine regarding the localization of production in Ukraine were legitimate and that Ukraine had the right to request localization. And he confirmed it as a completely practical step by coming to Kiev and signing the agreement. Colleagues, what more signals do we need to finally put in a localization bill if the French minister has already come to tell us that localization is normal? I am convinced that we either need to learn to respect ourselves as a country, to respect our manufacturers, engineers and employees, and to make a localization as a permanent requirement for purchasing; or to continue neglecting their work, their jobs, and to give Ukrainian taxpayers jobs for money to citizens of other countries. It's a choice for us, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u10	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Isenka Dmitry Valeriovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u11	Please hand it over to Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u12	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Two years of the Zelensky presidency, many of us, even political opponents, supported Zelensky in the second round so that he wouldn't remain in power as a "frontier". And what did we get? Let's be honest, two years of disappointment. There is no prospect of ending the Donbas conflict today, unfortunately we don't. Pensions at a low level are 1 thousand 769 dollars minimum pension. It's a sentence of authority. The tariffs rose by 30 percent this year. The number of people eligible to receive subsidies has dropped by 1 million 100,000 over the past two years, and the amount of subsidies has doubled. Did the Ukrainians begin to live better, and today the authorities are depriving them of even such meager support? We see a general decline. The government's hiding behind COVID. What do we have with COVID? The light that you're going to be in tomorrow's ear, and for all you can do, besides your ear, to extend to the minister's office, told us a year ago: "All good, beautiful Marquis," we have special conditions, we're special people, we have special immunity, we don't need anything. The money we spent -- $2.4 billion (66 billion dollars) -- was buried in the asphalt. They buried the health of the Ukrainians in the asphalt. Today we are in the prime of death, and this is a crime, it's a crime against its own people. What does the authorities do? When the government saw that the ratings had fallen three times over the past two years, it began not to correct its mistakes, not to serve the people as you called them, but to persecute journalists and opposition. Well, you scared the hell out of him. We've been through all this. What is being pursued today by our leader, Victor Medvedchuk, is another systemic sign of persecution against politicians who today do not share the course of power. Today, 80 percent of our citizens do not share the course of authority, but 20 percent of our citizens do not understand what we are talking about. So if you today are declaring people who disagree with you to be enemies of the nation, you are already enemies of your own people, whose name you are hiding. Therefore, today we wish you to resign. This will be the sum total of your two - year work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u14	The word is given to the national deputy Saucuk Oksani Vasilovni, who is not. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u15	Oxana Savchuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ivano-Frankishte. You know, I heard the word "disgusting" in Parliament today for those MPs that the Ukrainian people don't understand. There was no oath in Parliament today. An oath is when people swear allegiance to God and Ukraine in this Parliament. We don't have another MP today because citizens with Russian passports can't be parliamentarians. And today, more than ever before, the law on collaborationism. Why can't we see him in this Parliament? I am addressing everyone: why can't we see in Parliament a law about traitors? If you and I had accepted him two more months ago, when we were all actively talking about it, today the vice presidents would not be standing in this session room. That is why we demand that we, in the operational order of the committee, consider and adopt these bills because they are essential to the country today. And the other people you're going to fight for here are Medvedchuk. I registered a bill yesterday that clearly states that 5505, if a person is accused of treason, can't in any way be a safe haven for a home arrest, it's an exclusively direct road to S.I.A. Because those who have committed any tendency towards treason must be punished directly, and they must not be followed by the crowds of all bodyguards! They're supposed to be sitting at the S.I.S.A. behind bars. Because the worst thing that a representative of Parliament can do is commit treason. And today I would like to if we're talking about some development. What could be the development of the Ukrainian economy when we have these, you know, sent-away Cossacks that give us all our information? We're talking about ministers. But let the Secretary of Defense report here, who's already so far gone, that they're just, you know, ashamed of the guys who are standing in the trenches today, and they're ashamed of the minister. So the next minister who has to be sent, as they say, "Come on, good-bye!"this is the Secretary of Defense. And we need to raise that question too. And last but not least, the issue of territorial defense. Until we can unite in matters together, we can drive out those state traitors behind bars, and we will not take up our real defenses, until we are weak. And no minister of the economy or anyone will save our country. So let us stick to, unite, and conquer those perverts who are trying to make a sacrifice. They're not victims. They're criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u16	The word is given to the National Deputy, Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u17	Good morning, dear colleagues. Oil, gas, iron ore, gold, lithium are useful fossils that are rich in Ukrainian territory. According to the Ukrainian Constitution, citizens of Ukraine are the owner of the land and the nadr. The administration of these resources, on behalf of and in the interests of the people of Ukraine, is carried out by government authorities and local authorities. Have you considered how transparent the mining activity in Ukraine is? Does the people of Ukraine know how many tons of iron ore, cubic meters of natural gas or tons of oil have been extracted in Ukraine over the past five years? Do citizens of Ukraine know how much taxes, rents, income tax, value added tax were paid by mining companies in Ukraine in 2020? Oil, gas, iron ore, gold, lithium are the most useful fossils with which corruption is most associated not only in Ukraine but also worldwide. Let me give you a few examples. In 2016 it became known that Shell purchased a record $1.1 billion oil supply in Nigeria. How much money did the Nigerian government budget get? Not a penny. Why? Because the seller and owner of the place of origin was the company of the former Nigerian Energy Minister. This year, it became known that the famous diamond magnate Beni Steinmec paid the wife of President Guinea $8.5 million for obtaining the right to use one of the world’s largest iron ore deposits. Similar things can be said of Argentina, Brazil, and Tanzania. The geography of corruption in the field of the use of nadrama is very broad. It is worth noting that in 2018 Ukraine joined the world’s transparency initiative in extractive industries. We even adopted changes to Ukrainian legislation and provided more transparent use of nadrama in Ukraine. In the last three years, however, certain gaps have arisen, and it is not easy for companies to use them to hide information about their activities from the production and use of Ukrainian nadrama. It was to remove these gaps that we developed Bill 3790. And the Supreme Council Committee on Energy and Housing Services has already approved it in its first reading. Oil, gas, iron ore, gold, lithium -- the Ukrainian people have a right to know who and what conditions Ukrainian nadrama are using. I call on Parliament's leadership to introduce Bill 3790 into the agenda of the day's nearest plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u18	The word is given to the National MP, Billozore Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished voters, distinguished colleagues! Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin, Trust Group. Colleagues, in civilized lands, spend time traveling the world. Since September 1, thanks to the government and our Ministry of Social Policy, our pensioners will also be able to travel only in search of ATMs. This is another improvement from Minsoc. And it's not enough that we have very little payouts just for our pensioners, they're actually unable to provide a human standard of living. So now they're getting this tiny pension and they have to go 30 to 50 kilometers on broken roads to the nearest ATM during the quarantine period when they're supposed to be at home and not be in danger. And they're, you know, they're coming, they're not doing ATMs, they're missing money, they're not doing light, or they're simply not doing it. What, then, should people do that distance? And there's never been a coronavirus. And in an effort to save money on the services of Crucifixion, which has raised tariffs by one and a half times, the Government's decree of 277 stipulates that since September pensions and social benefits will be paid exclusively to citizens on bank cards, except, of course, from 80 years of age to pensioners, with disabilities and groups, there are 3 categories, and they can't serve themselves. So for some reason the government didn't notice that 3.5 million pensioners who receive a pension at home live in villages, villages, towns where there are simply no bank offices or ATMs that continue to shut down. We have over 27,000 settlements where there are no ATMs and there are no banks. And for many years, Krašta has covered 100 percent of the population, provided timely retirement, and also provided jobs for more than 10,000 mailmen. Did the government think that it would be with these people who would lose their jobs? In general, in all civilized countries, policies are produced about groups and their needs. On the contrary, we do things to make the lives of these people worse. So I urge the government to review this regulation immediately, 277, and not to create a collapse on September 1st, when there might be a fourth wave of Coronavirus. And this situation needs to be rectified as a matter of urgency. That's why the People's Deputies of the Trust Group have directed this call and will control that Minsoc ceases to abuse pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u20	The word is given to the national deputy of Danilov Vitali Bogdanovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Please. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u21	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the cynicism of some of the actions of power today is beyond bounds. Six months ago, from this rostrum, the leader of Fatherland was talking about what we're waiting for in the People's Landing Act. We're waiting because people finally have to say their word on the key issues that concern Ukrainian society today. We talked about what today is possible in Parliament to cut tariffs. And we can today by enacting a law that the gas of our own production needs to go directly to households and individuals, we could partially resolve the issue of excessive gas tariffs. We talked about the importance and strategic approach to the opening of the land market so that the Ukrainian village would not suffer so that Ukrainian farmers would not suffer. We have to make a run to protect them first, give them financial tools, give them all the opportunities to participate in this market. Four million people who actually produce agricultural products aren't registered as producers, so they won't take credit, and they won't be market participants. And this village, four million people from the village will not be able to compete today with the speculators you've proposed in your respective bills. Colleagues, and strategic property, when there is no law on the list of objects banned from privatization. I'm not saying that the promised laws on the creation of a rural development fund, support for agriculture, as we suggested, are direct money so that these farmers, who have at least registered, can be part of the respective land circle. Colleagues, and what does authority do? In the village of Vasilkovka, in the region of Dnipropetrovsk, the government gathers a large number of initiative groups. How do you imagine 60 people from one village will be collecting 3 million signatures throughout the country in 90 days? How is this possible? And then the CEC registers these initiative groups. Why, then, did we vote on the Law on the Peoples of the State? Why, then, are we deceiving Ukrainian citizens, leading them directly into deception, that we will consult them if we do not want direct people in Ukraine? And that's what the authorities do. "Paternity" on Saturday helps bring together a large number of people -- 10,000 -- who will become members of the initiative group. Join us. We're going to be looking for a referendum on the land market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u22	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u23	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! You know, for days, Ukraine was celebrating Europe's Day. And looking at those speeches, the promises, the slogans that were made by our authority on Europe Day, I'm absolutely thrilled with them. I am delighted that the authorities declare Ukraine's wish to join the European Union. But there's only one big "but." In Latin it's "acta, non verba," in English it's "real, not word." Colleagues, does anyone in this room or in our Ukrainian society think that the use of the National Security and Defence Council as a judicial authority is the way to Europe? Does anyone in this room or in Ukrainian society think that changing legislation under their Constitutional Court judges is a real way to Europe? Does anyone think that the absence of transparent competitions for positions in anti-corruption institutions is really the way to Europe? Does anyone really think that destroying proper corporate governance, especially in Naftogaz, is really the way to Europe? I'm not talking about the persecution of political opposition anymore. I'm not talking about the so-called regulation of the fuel market and a lot more. I hope that honest people, including in this room, can give an honest answer: this is not the way to Europe. And if we could have previously called the actions of our authority in European integration by Euroimitation, it can now be called exclusive European integration. When, you know, little kids get their eyes closed, they think they're gone. So, our teenagers in power, they don't understand diplomatic statements, not hints, not diplomatic language. Our teenagers in the government believe that beautiful slogans make good promises that no one will notice their real actions. That's why, colleagues, I think we're far further away from Europe today than we were two years ago when this team came to power. Fellows, I am addressing you with the time to finally acknowledge the problem, the time to move from words and slogans to action, the time to realize that it is time for you to really do your homework, in order to achieve the strategic goal that is enshrined in our Constitution, namely membership in the European Union and NATO. And I hope that you will finally open your eyes and act in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u24	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogustic Elizabeth Petrovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u25	Fellow MPs, what happened here today in the Supreme Council with this pledge of a new national MP is a disgrace, including our Supreme Council, a disgrace to the BSS, which has not denied that this deputy is elected to the Supreme Council. Perhaps one day his burden will be chosen by the Crimean Sergey Aksionov and we too will sit here and remain silent because we will find no basis for his not being chosen. How can a person who has received a Russian passport in the occupied Crimea be a member of the Ukrainian Supreme Council now? I understand why we didn't leave because the rostrum was occupied by the European Solidarity Party, the faction. I understand why we were sitting here and there were only a few deputies who applauded the fact that we didn't make an oath to this man here from the Supreme Council. But what I don't understand is that we're all silent against the fact that this Russian invasion actually takes note of itself being here, not even in the Supreme Council's rostrum, but it's taking an oath somewhere, and we hear that there's no legal basis. I don't have the words. It's just an outrage that I want you all to hear. This is my indignation of a man who was forced to leave Crimea precisely because this Russia came to occupy Crimea and did not give people there, who yesterday, by the way, was the day of the deportation of Crimean Tatars, here are the Crimean Tatars who came out of Crimea because Russia occupied it. And Russia, which is leading the politics of this Soviet Union, which helped to do so and made the Tatars, the Crimean Tatars, leave, not even come out alone, but were evicted from Crimea in 1944. And now we accept it so calmly with you. I just don't have the words! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u27	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Certainly, respectable colleagues, the most acute and controversial issue in Ukraine, are now being deprived of Ukrainian ownership of their strategic agricultural land. This is what my colleague, Vadim Yvchenko, spoke about in his speech, and he urged that, along with the farmers' associations of Ukraine, together with the faction and the "Fatherland" party join the establishment of an initiative group that will take place in Kiev at 12 o'clock Saturday. What does the authorities do with the settlement network? Here I want to raise another parallel question of how our village is being destroyed. Education, education, and the mechanics used to introduce the formula for counting this subsidy for those cities to which villages were merged into OTG. And I'm going to remind you that if you lock up a school in the village, the village disappears. So today, there's not enough of this money, this subsidy to pay off, not that the prestige or the unfortunate percentage of the class leadership or the bookkeeping, or even the wages of our teachers. I want to say the Voice faction. You criticized Minister Sergei Scarlett, talked about being a plagiarist. No, he's not just a plagiarist, he'll go into history as a person who destroys a village school that shuts down schools in the country, he's not just a plagiar. So today, I think that each of us, from the national MPs, should immediately draw attention to this very strategic issue of admission to education, and allow not only to receive salaries to our teachers, but also to allow those extras, such as prestige, class management allowances, for checking notebooks to give to those students. After all, they pay the same amount of money and take it to school when they release certain booklets or other items. Under what circumstances are the leaders of the united territorial communities now present? In a very complex way, because the Ministry, once again, stresses when calculating these formulae, providing for deficits in this subsidy, they put on the shoulders of the new leaders of the united territorial communities all responsibility and motivate them, without giving sufficient subsidies to the OTG, to shut down schools. I have a letter from one of the management boards of the regime that clearly says that, in order to carry out protocol assignments, the councils are obliged to close and optimize schools. Don't do this, city heads, don't do this, don't close the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, guys, let's get to the line right away. I would like to draw the attention of all national deputies to the fact that I personally addressed the regulatory committee clarifying the provisions of the Rules relating to replicas. So when you open up, there's a list of reasons in your e-mails when you can use a replica. You have been mentioned in the most positive context. So I'm asking you very much, let's be guided. You'll get to know the conclusion, and then we'll get to the discussion. Dear colleagues, we have completed the speeches of the national MPs. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you, so let us move on to their consideration. I'm sorry, we're not moving on. A statement came from two factions replacing the performance. The word is given to the national deputy of Solomia Bobrovsky. Please, Mrs. Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u29	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, it's a disgrace for the eighth year of war, and for me personally, who has been driving and seeing what's happening in the east since the 14th year, it's led to an oath by a citizen of the Russian Federation, which I've had on many occasions, and other colleagues of the Supreme Council have been writing to Mr. John Bakanov, and it's not just unacceptable -- it's a terrible dream that none of us could have imagined. I think it's time for us to actually, colleagues, consolidate, and, "ministers of the people," I address you first, and ask Mr. Bakanov to come here to the Supreme Council with a report from the Head of the Security Service and explain to us what's going on. It's wonderful to say to the whole world that we have a potential threat and the possibility of escalating in the east, but let's see what's going on inside. And one thing we don't pay attention to, unfortunately, is doing other things -- it's a question of sanctions policy. We see how the citizens of Ukraine rejoice in decisions taken by the RNB, but the question is: Is it right to impose sanctions on Ukrainian citizens? Both our faction and the faction of the majority and other factions have registered a number of bills relating to the order of sanctions policy. I have a request, let's stop the chaos and properly, normally, and by means of the Criminal Code, we will finally make peace with those citizens who are to be subject to sanctions policy today. But, you know, today I want to give you another interesting detail. I find this very interesting: it's when we avoid citizens of the Russian Federation, but nevertheless, we stop citizens of the state of Ukraine. As it turns out, in the first quarter, the National Bank of Ukraine refinanced the so-called First Investment Bank. In the first quarter, they're going to get 235 million. But do you know who the majority shareholder is? And he is a citizen of the Russian Federation, Eugene Hiner, who in turn is not just a Russian oligarch, but also has 49 percent of the property of Technopromexport, which is part of a huge holding company called Rostech. Who doesn't know what "Rosech does little to keep track of what's going on behind the ribs," and I'm going to explain that this is a corporation that manufactures, develops, exports and sells weapons. And that's how we actually finance it, thanks to the Security Service closing their eyes, including the messages, the reports and the letters, on similar stories. It turns out that we finance a foreign army, when we ask in other countries to help financially and technically our Ukrainian army. Dear colleagues, Rostech is under the sanctions of the State of Ukraine and the United States of America. I'm asking the NSA to pay attention to this and to the Security Service to submit to Mr. Eugene Hiner's sanction policy, which is actually pouring money out of the government budget today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Solomia. Dear colleagues, we are now making a clear transition to the consideration of issues. You have a list, and yesterday we finished reviewing all the regulations and went through the presentations from all the reporters. I now invite the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. This is for all registration projects, from 4535-P to 4535-P11. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u31	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered all 12 draft decrees repealing Parliament's decision of 15 April this year on the adoption of a second reading and the whole of the draft Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the development of the Institute of Ageing (registration 4535), which were introduced by the People's Deputies: Timoshenko, Puziyczuk, Cimbaluk, Heratschenko, Gerasimov, Kirilenko, Vlasenko, Klimpush-Cincadze and Frez, Fedina, Yvchenko, Sumar and Sukhiv. The draft regulations propose that the Parliament's decision to adopt a second reading and the entire draft registration law be revoked, 4535, on the basis that, as the drafters pointed out in the explanatory notes, the consideration of the draft was carried out in violation of the requirements of the Rules, in particular Article 116. The Regulatory Committee adopted conclusions on all these 12 draft regulations and recommended that Parliament decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of these drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u32	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these issues? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u34	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we would like to call you to a constructive approach. There are topics around which the session room should unite, and above all, these are successful reforms. Even the opponents of our team, and that's the majority right now, you won't argue that decentralization reform was one of the most important things for Ukraine. Because decentralization has given the region more budget authority, more power, more opportunities. And today you're killing decentralization reform when you're essentially banning old age's choice and you're saying that the city has the right to choose its own head, and the village is some other class and the mayor will be appointed. Friends, don't divide Ukraine into varieties! Janukovic did this in 2003-2004, and it ended badly for him. Both the city and the village, and the united territorial communities, all have the right to choose their own servants. Everyone has the right to choose their leader. We ask you to support these decisions. It's about a very important standard -- the choice of old age. You can't assign them! And, friends, second. We respect Mrs. Sougiri, in fact. You have 250 votes. Why are you humiliating her? Why do you set a standard for the Constitutional Court in the Old Age Act? Why are you humiliating Mrs. Sougir? How come "European Solidarity" protects your colleague, and you destroy her reputation at the start, and you do everything to make her illegal when you elect her to the Constitutional Court? What are you doing? So we now call on you simply to do the stupid thing that you did when you voted on this law, where you put together names, floods, horns, hooves, Constitutional Court, united territorial communities, old age, just to cancel. Cancel the vote, work on the law and then improve the institution of old age, but leave the right to the Ukrainians both in the city and in the village to choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u36	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u37	A request to convey to the Venislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u38	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, yesterday and today we hear many interesting speeches on the Old Age Bill. But if you look at the content of these statements, there's clearly absolutely manipulation by our political opponents. What is the essence of manipulation, fellow workers? First of all, the law that we are now. The decision to abolish the voting results that we are currently considering concerns the order of completion of decentralization processes at the village level. If we want every village to have a political component and political discussion between the village and the united territorial community, let us ensure the choice of old age. The territorial community elects its own representative body, and it is the representative body as a representative of the territorial community in full compliance with the Constitution that appoints old age to ensure the most effective regulation and the most effective functioning of local self-government bodies. As for the fears of the rape of the Rules, the Constitution, the paradox of the situation and the comicality of the situation, the honourable colleagues, is that those who scream the most are themselves, during the previous review of the Supreme Council's former warehouses, with very interesting revenants, have achieved the same goals. In particular, when the Constitutional Court Law was passed, it was strangely in this law that the procedure for the election of the Authorized Supreme Council from human rights was changed between the first and the second readings. On the initiative of the faction, which most screams about unconstitutionality, about rape. Another faction who screams should mention that her judge of the Constitutional Court took an oath as Ukraine’s national deputy. And that didn't give anyone a hard time about it. So let us not speculate or mislead citizens. There is no reason to undo this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u40	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, about speculation. I watched so closely that our colleague was no longer allowed into the rostrum to read his oath. I look and think, don't I understand something? People's servants are coming out, shouting about some other passport, about Russian citizenship. Hello, garage, and the President not yours? The President would write down a decree saying that he would be deprived of his citizenship, and there wouldn't be this circus here. One thing is, when there are two factions that do this and they're yelling about it, and the other thing is that there's a majority saying that we have claims that a citizen of another state has become the national deputy of Ukraine. So go to the President and explain it to him. If this is true, let him sign the decree, and if it is not true, keep your mouth shut and do not have to vote on it. It's just with the elders. Ununited ones were already united. People are already confused, they've taken away our real resources, our villages, they've really taken away. Now people see that what they had before these compounds, in fact, they have lost their real ability to use their own property, and here they have their old age on their heads. You know, I've already had this kind of anxiety before I'm old age. For the last time, the old man was planted for us during the occupation of the Fascists, so they planted the old man for us. What, what road are you going on? So today we will not accept and uphold this law. Of course, we support the decision to cancel the vote. And you need to think, not as old age to plant, but as today, to protect people from the real threat of death. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u42	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". I see. Ivan Ivanovich, please Krulko. The same faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u43	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to explain the position of our political power, why we did not explicitly support this bill. The word is that old age in united territorial communities, the former heads of the village are now not chosen by humans, but are appointed by appropriate council. What's going on, guys, in practice? And in practice, there is a situation where the whole OTG is appointed not by what people support in the village, but by who the head of the appropriate OTG has appointed and proposed to the council. And there's a situation where very often there's an elder in the village who can't represent the community, because he doesn't have any authority, no respect, no professional skills. And the village in question is protesting that such a person would represent their interests in a united territorial community. We were already in the past when an old man was appointed in Ukraine. It was during the occupation from the 41st to the 44th, when the old man appointed us commanders. Maybe you should leave this false idea and let people determine for themselves who must represent their interests in a united territorial community? And one more moment. Let's face it, we're in the middle of a planned policy of destroying the village after the collapse of the settlement network. Once again, the sale of land, which is strongly opposed by Fatherland, and requires a referendum on this subject, by shutting down schools, by shutting down FAPs, by shutting down clubs, because essentially all rural intelligence is forced to leave the village because it's just losing its job. So let's do it this way, if we want to preserve the Ukrainian state, we have to think today about how the village develops. And the village will develop when the villagers feel that they have respect for Kiev, and because of the election of their seniority, including we can show respect for those living in the village in our view of Parliament. That is why we believe that this law should be repealed, adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, anyone else? Please, the national MP of Lozinski, but one minute. Please, with a motive. Is there anyone else out there? Chess, yeah. Nobody else. Then we go to the vote. Please, People's Deputies of Lozinski, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u45	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. I would just like to remind all the Ukrainians, those who have a direct relationship with local self-government, how in this room about 1 month ago we considered hundreds of amendments, amendments that were made in the interests of local self-government, in the interests of those people who want to feel better services that want to feel the quality of this so loud word "decentralisation." Unfortunately, these people, in the Ukrainians, took away the right to choose their own representatives, to choose an old age. I showed a strategy, not a strategy for individual politicians, but a strategy for the Ministry. And what did the Ministry say? Ages must be chosen. But then something changed and people's right to choose. This is a crime, a crime against local self - government, so we will uphold the decree and not uphold it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u46	The word is given to the national deputy Shahov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u47	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, by the way, when will this vachanal end, which is taking place in the state? The Constitution clearly states that anyone who lives in Ukraine can be chosen and has the right to choose. In villages today, people are taken as villas when they appoint old age as Fascism. There's a head, a Ukrainian word, so let's put heads in the village. And second of all. There's this disgusting thing that's still sitting, the ninth head of the military and civil administration, who's left 500,000 people to vote in Sevjerodonetsk, Lysichansk, in eight communities, in Girski, in Pázna. The Court of Appeal has already admitted that an illegal decision has been taken by the head of the military-civil administration of the Haydays. When will it be punished and put off pending investigation? By the time the M.E.A.'s decision is made, the National Deputy of the High.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. As we agreed, we turn each of our decisions and vote on it. Dear colleagues, I therefore put to the vote Decree 4535-P: a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to Certain Acts of Ukraine on the Development of the Institute of Ageing. The author is Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:15:03]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next order 4535-P1, the author of the decree is the People's Deputy Puziychuk. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:15:31]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next. Decree 4535-P2, People's Deputy Zimbaluk is the author of this decree. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:59]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Then we have Order 4535-P3, author Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:28]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Next Order 4535-P4, author of the decree, if I am not mistaken, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:59]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next order. Project Regulation 4535-P5. The draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council by Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:31]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next draft Decision 4535-P6. Same subject. A draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of the same name. National MP Vlasenko. The author is national deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:05]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Next Order 4535-P7, authored by Ukrainian National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:36]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Next project, Decree 4535-P8, authored by the National Deputy of Ukraine of the Sofia Sofia Romanovna. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:04]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The next draft of the ruling on the same issue is the repeal of the same Supreme Council Act, 4535-P8, P9, which is the authorship of National Deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:37]] For 101 The decision is not taken. The next Order 4535-P10 also refers to the same issue: the annulment of the decision taken by the Supreme Council, the authorship of Ukrainian national deputy Sumar Victoria Petrova. That is why I also ask you to identify and vote. [[11:20:11]] For-95 The decision is not taken. And the last of this list is a decision that concerns the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council on adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Acts of Ukraine on the Development of the Old Age Institute. This Order No. 4535-P11 is the author of the People's Deputy Sukhova Aleksandra Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, please identify and vote. [[11:20:50]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, none of these regulations have received the necessary support in the hall. Thus, the law can be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us move on to the next question by the same procedure. We have 11 of these. Excuse me, 12 such orders. This is 2194-P, 2194-P1 and so on to 2194-P11. These are draft decrees repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 28.04.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and other legislative acts on the improvement of the system of administration and deregulation in the field of land relations. In accordance with the Rules, this issue is dealt with in a simplified procedure without voting in the agenda. Dear colleagues, we will also follow the same procedure. First, the authors of the relevant rulings, then the committee will speak, and then we will vote. That is why I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Koltunović, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. Well, first of all, why do we have the moral right to speak today on the subject and on the given rulings, because even the data of the non-friendly social group "Rating" show that 77 percent of Ukrainian citizens believe that the issue of the sale of agricultural land should be determined exclusively in the country's referendum. 75 percent of those polled are willing to take part in this referendum. If we are generally asking whether we support or not, 64 percent of Ukrainian citizens do not support the introduction of agricultural land. Why? Because it's banal from an economic point of view, it's uncomfortable. We've talked to you about figures that show that if the cost of a hectare of land in the country is a thousand, a maximum of two thousand per hectare, the colleagues were bringing in the figures of the countries of the European Union: 20, 40, 80, and yesterday a colleague even brought up 100,000 euros per hectare. So from this point of view, where it is more convenient to rent land, to develop, as the world’s leading countries do, to strengthen the earth’s lease system, and thus to move. That's what our faction insists on, and we advocate that, in principle, we go with it to the election, first the referendum, and then the decision. But as we can see, two thirds of Ukrainian citizens do not support the issue of circulation. Moreover, if we are talking about a specific draft law, we have data that 79 percent of Ukrainian citizens are against the acquisition by foreign nationals of an agricultural assignment. What risks? The risk is that 15 to 17 million hectares of land in Ukraine, which is 8 to 9 percent of the world's reserves, could be owned by Ukrainian foreign citizens, even though it is a country's strategic resource. Risks: Expansion of agroholdings, increased raw materials, and so forth. Please support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u50	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. The word is given to the author of another decree - 2194-P1 - the national deputy of Ukraine Soboljevo Sergei Vladislavovich. None. Okay. The word is given to the author of Decree 2194-P2 Evtushka Sergei Mikolaiovich. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, it is an unprecedented case when 12 regulations have been discussed at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee, which our colleagues with you as authors are trying to abolish these mechanisms, which, unfortunately, the authorities are putting in place to sell out agricultural land by the end of the country, the most important resource that remains with our Ukrainians, to Ukrainian citizens. Of course, every decision was discussed in the committee, and we discussed it and we concluded, obviously, that laws such as the Old Age Act, which, when we give indirect elections to appoint old age, such mechanisms as the collection of subsidies with deficits for educational subsidies, such mechanisms as those laid down in these laws that we are now trying to cancel, are being destroyed by the settlement network. Because once again, what I'm saying today is that I'm shutting down a school in a village, a club means destroying a village, it means destroying a village network, it means selling out land that's in a village, to those owners who buy it and not Ukrainian at all. Because, according to our data, international financial corporations have already prepared large cash funds to buy our Ukrainian land. So the "Fatherland" faction urges everyone: on Saturday, 22 numbers at 12 a.m. in the city of Kiev, an initiative group will be held to organize an all-U.S. referendum. Let's go with the farmers, with the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u52	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Puziychuk Andriy Viktorovich. It doesn't, does it? Then the national deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko. It doesn't, does it? Okay. National Deputy of Ukraine Kabachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u53	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, the majority, I want to come to you, but I don't even know what to tell you, because instead of me, you've been told completely and repeatedly to Ukraine. For the first time, the Ukrainians came to you a year ago when we passed Law 2178, and they stood under the walls of the Supreme Council and condemned the adoption of this law. On the second occasion, they approached you two weeks ago when a social survey was conducted and 65 Ukrainians said that enough was enough to vote for this shameful bill. The third time the Ukrainians will say this to you on May 22, which is three days from today, when an initiative group is to hold and organize a referendum, and it is at this meeting that the Ukrainians will address you publicly, on a media basis, and once again confirm their position that they are against opening up the land market as currently proposed in the bill. The strange thing about this situation is that it was you, the distinguished representatives of the majority, who promised to hold the referendum first and then make the decision, and it was you who burned that rule. And so for two months we sat behind you, we tried to convince you of what we were doing, we tried to tell you a little bit different about the bill. We have never denied the adoption of the bill. We talked about changing the approach, hearing the Ukrainians, learning what they think, and only then, if we had these three factors on our hands, would we support you completely in all of your decisions. I very much hope that my decision, that my colleagues' decision, will still be supported, that we will fix this problem with you and we will go a little differently to this bill. Thank you for your attention. Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u54	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the author of the alternative decree. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, why are we against the adoption of this law? One simple reason: there is an alternative. By yourself, the world is currently processing 2.5 billion acres [2.5 billion ha] of agricultural land. They work, produce agricultural production and raw materials for 550 million farms, of which 500 million are family farms. Take the pen into your hands, do a simple arithmetic action -- and you'll realize that for every family farm, there are an average of 5 hectares. Long ago, there were no latifunds in the world: neither in Latin America, such as Brazil, Argentina, Mexico. There are no slaves, Izaur, they've been through it, they've been through this nightmare. Guys, we're going into this nightmare. By adopting such agrarian land reform, we're opening the way to a major manufacturer, making it a priority, and you see it by this law. It's impossible to do that, the world is going a very different way -- by way of employment. On the family farm, a thousand hectares, if you count, 200 workers, and on the agrohholding, five per thousand hectares. That's why the village is desolate, that's why the settlement network is being destroyed, that's why we have monoculture and destruction of the most valuable resource we have is the Ukrainian Black Earth, no seismics. Dear friends, the alternative is that if a person wants to sell land, let the country buy this land and/or local self-government with a subsequent lease to their farmer, preferably to the family farmer. It is desirable that our production develop, our national producer has a job to ensure that we are provided with both food and national security. This is our alternative, smart way. We want the people to say in a referendum why we're against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u56	The word is given to another author of an alternative bill to the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Nastawajchenka, Valentina Alexandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable citizens of Ukraine! Why is the power of the referendum so feared? The answer is obvious. I'll tell you what a referendum is. The referendum is when you citizens of Ukraine decide who your country belongs to. The very decision-making that we are fighting for in the U.S. referendum should be here and now, in our country, and must be made by Ukrainian citizens. This is the people of the land. This is our plan, the Fatherland plan, as we can and should do today, how we can and should live tomorrow. It's the people, the citizens of Ukraine. And that's why Julia Timoshenko, and our entire team, we are initiating and supporting you, the citizens of Ukraine, so that this Sunday (Breezovka, Buchansky region, Kyiv region) will begin a referendum with tens of thousands of established congregations. By word of mouth! And I call now on everyone who looks at us and hears: sign your signature. Let's start with you once and for all a referendum that we're going to solve the main question -- our question about our land. Besides us, who, besides the Ukrainians, should handle these matters? The obvious answer is only us and only the Ukrainians! Because the real masters of the land are you, you citizens of Ukraine. It's not temporary power, it's not aliens, it's you people who've grown up. And tonight, when the kids ask you, "Dad, Mom, you're here from work, who decides the fate of Ukrainian land?" The answer can and should be given to our family's children: "We decide our fate!" Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u58	The word is given to another author of an alternative decision by the Ukrainian national deputy Dubela Valerija Aleksandrovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, to the conviction of our team, Act 2194 has been adopted in contravention of the Ukrainian Rules and in contravention of Ukraine's main law is the Constitution of Ukraine. Many say that there are many risks involved in this law. The main risk is what you make our Ukrainian people: the poor are even poorer and the rich are even richer. You're saying that foreigners won't be able to buy land, our Ukrainian land. See what foreign experts say, read the Internet. They're just waiting to start a land sale campaign to buy our Ukrainian land. You want to make our people beggars on your Ukrainian land, deprive millions of Ukrainians of their rights in violation of Ukrainian law, the Constitution itself. Do you want to make Ukraine a raw supplement? I don't want that. You promised the Ukrainian people you'd hold a referendum. Why are you afraid? Fatherland's team gathers groups of initiative on Saturday. Not 60 people, like you do in the Dnipropetrov region, but 17,000 Ukrainians, who will meet in the Kyiv region. And it is only after the referendum that millions of people, not hundreds of people in this room, have to decide the fate of Ukrainian land. Please support the decision, and today you have a chance to correct the mistake of land belonging to Ukrainians, not foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u60	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Mikhailovich Cimbaluk, the author of the alternative decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u61	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian nation has fought for the land for a long time. Today, Ukrainian military personnel are fighting over Ukrainian land in eastern borders. Honor and thanks. At that time, the Ukrainian authorities decided to start a war in the back of the country. And not only will the villagers fight, but the inhabitants of the cities, who, according to the law that is in force, have the right to gardens and to pie, for by this law they will be removed from their land. There is a limit — a limit beyond which there can be no turning back. And that must be understood by those on whom the fate of the adoption of this law depends. But there will also be a moment of truth, and a moment of truth on May 22, this year in the village of Breezovka in Kiev, where representatives of all will be gathered without the exception of the Ukrainian communities to initiate a convention of signatures for the referendum. It's up to the Central Election Commission, and it's up to the President to give the owners of the Ukrainian land the right to express their position under the Constitution. Fatherland has an alternative plan. At last, do an inventory of the land as promised. Make a real assessment, not a speculative assessment of the earth. Create a government body that will buy the land from all who want it, and rent it. And that's the way most of the European nations went. Please support my determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka, with the conclusion of all 12 projects. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u63	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed all draft regulations repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 28 April of this year on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law amending the Land Code and other legislative acts on improving the management and deregulation of land relations (registration 2194). The relevant drafts of the decrees are made by the people’s deputies Coltunovich and others, Sobolev, Evtušk, Puziychuk, Timoshenko, Yvchenk and Kirilenko, Kabachenko, Nadvajchenk, Dubil, Bondariev, Labunski, Cimbaluk. These draft decrees propose to repeal Parliament's decision to adopt a second reading and an entire draft registration law of 2194 on the basis that, as indicated by the authors in the explanatory notes to these draft regulations, the draft was adopted by Parliament without respect for the provisions of the Constitution, the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine and the procedures for reviewing the draft law laid down by the Supreme Council Rules. In summary, the Regulatory Committee has adopted conclusions on these draft regulations and recommends that the Supreme Council decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u64	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." First of all, I'd like to support those of my colleagues who have brought these acts of concern so that they will not allow essentially the breakdown of statehood in our country. There was a lot of talk yesterday, and today we sat down and wept. Dear colleagues who have heard of the sale of land everywhere have also sold and sensitively counted peasants in Ukraine before 1861. This is exactly what is being prepared for today. What holdings? What foreign owners? We go back to the times of the fort, that's what we're talking about. And so our political power will support the fact that this law, more faithfully, does not exist. Everything the MPs say, you see, so many initiatives. I'd like to say mostly: colleagues, look at the day after tomorrow, don't look at yesterday, and you'll see what you've brought the Ukrainian nation to about the earth. Once again, on December 1, 91st, the people in the referendum said that land was property and the foundation of sovereignty, confirming the Declaration on July 16th. How, then, can you resolve matters without the will of the people? How can you solve a question at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u66	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u67	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague at the Wadima Yvchenk faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u68	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u69	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, do you know why we're surprised? Surprisingly, you and I could run the course of the earth that is in most European countries. We could run the earth with you, allowing small, small farmers to participate in this market. We could put these tools in place, and today you have a monopoly so that really financial instruments are directed to people who don't have access to banks, to loans that don't have a mortgage. We've had the opportunity to make fuses with you to keep part of the business that's already built on leased land, especially strategic directions. These are animals, hundreds of jobs, thousands of jobs. These are organics that have been engaged in organic farming for years. How now. And they raised the value of this land. How can they now function and function? And you gave priority to not a farmer, you gave priority to a speculator, you gave priority to someone who had no bearing on agriculture. "Paternality" is why it offers from this rostrum all the time, and when our colleagues announce all these regulations, just so you understand that that agrarian arrangement that exists today, from a small to a large agrohölding, you are disrupting and not allowing small ones to participate in this process. Only large and cheap funds, and only speculators will now use the laws you have enacted. So let's support the rulings. And let's really work for those who choose us for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u70	The word is given to a national MP. From European Solidarity, Prince's Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u71	Thank you. "European Solidarity" for the land market according to a European model that helps develop a strong local farmer and preserves land resources. And against the speculative model that the present authorities are running. As far as this particular bill is concerned, in the part of the control of the function of the Dergeocadastre and the Dergekoinspection, these functions are completely duplicated. The treeocadastre combines management and control functions. And I don't know what the reform is about. The project proposes to introduce the possibility for the owner of the land of private property without agreeing with the executive body to change the purpose of the land on its own. And this may mean that agricultural lands will be acquired by foreigners. The project is intended to allow the construction of facilities on the land of health and recreation, as well as economic activities that are not defined by the project, which can lead to the mass destruction of areas of health care and resorts. The size of the land that is leased to a citizen for gardening cannot exceed 0.6 acres [0.6 ha]. Well, you can see why when people need to be supported. Most of the provisions of this project, prepared for re-reading, have technical and legal flaws. Low positions include internal disagreements, disagreements with other laws. And if they are adopted, these will be contrary to other laws that are not proposed to amend the bill. This bill is not fully viable and is actually called upon to turn Ukrainian land into speculation instead of making it a way of economic development of the country, of Ukrainian farming and of investing in Ukrainian agriculture, rather than selling it at no cost to foreigners. We support all the decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u72	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Anna's speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u73	Only the barbarians during the pandemic, during the economic downturn, can sell the most valuable land in Ukraine during the war. And only the people's "ministers" who have promised from the beginning that of all the important issues for Ukraine and the Ukrainians will hold referendums will pass laws that completely destroy Ukrainian agrarians. You and I won't see a small farmer in a few years, and we're buying potatoes from Egypt today, where there's no fertile land at all. What will all of this lead to? Before Ukraine is and continues to be just a food supplement. This leads to Ukrainians simply being deprived of their own land, their own security, their food independence. Dear colleagues, I don't know, yesterday Julia Volodymyrna said very well about the absence of brain cavities that wash you so well. I can say that, unfortunately, there is nothing to wash there at all, because such laws are impossible to pass today. And we all understand, of course, that these decisions are unlikely to be supported by you, but, believe me, they will bury you in this land that you are selling for nothing today, and your children will just curse you for depriving them of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to speak? Yes, I see Shahov. Venislavski, I see. There's no one else. Please, National Deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u75	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, people in the country have long realized that there is no honor or conscience in this room. You didn't just sell Ukrainian land, you sold it to your mother. From this rostrum, I have addressed you on more than one occasion: go to Chernigovishte, Sustina, Kharkivščina, Luhanščina, Donetskina, where Ukrainian land joins Russian soil, where the European Wal is held, where people have been deprived of their right to their home land. And no one has yet resolved that question. People are starving, they can't get their money for pie. Please draw the demarcation line 50 meters away. Please pay people money and compensation for the land they stole. Once again, I turn from all these areas, from all people to this room, to every national MP, even though there are majors, to resolve this issue. Give compensation to people, give them a normal amount of money, and people are starving today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now giving the floor to the national deputy of Venislav. Then we go to the vote for all 12 decrees. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u77	Dear citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, today we have listened to a lot of interesting (in paws) "political scarecrows" about the historical laws that our Supreme Council has adopted. I am convinced that in the year 96 I remembered the citizens of Ukraine by adopting a legal document, a political document - the Constitution of Ukraine. The year 2021 is remembered by the citizens of Ukraine for their approval of the economic constitution, namely the land market legislation. Why are our political opponents against the earth’s market? Because they all have a direct bearing on those shadow schemes that make it impossible to market the earth. Why Are We Behind the Earth Market? Because the Constitution of Ukraine in articles 13 and 14 not only recognized the earth as a national treasure but also entrenched every citizen’s right to free use and management of his land, and we give him that right in spite of our political efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u78	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. As we said, we put all the decisions to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby give my first order to 2194-P the authorship of the People's Deputy, Koltunović. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:53:41]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next order 2194-P1, authored by the National Deputy of Ukraine Sobolev Sergija Vladislavovich. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:54:08]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next order 2194-P2, authored by Ukrainian National Deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:54:36]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next decision to repeal the previous announced decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Puzijchuk Andrija Viktorovic (No. 2194-P3). Please identify and vote. [[11:55:06]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next Order of Authority of Ukrainian National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, 2194-P4. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:55:33]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next project, Decree 2194-P5, Ukrainian National Deputy Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:00]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next Order to Repeal the previously named decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the authority of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Kabachenka Volodymira Viktorovic, Decree No. 2194-P6. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:34]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next project Decision of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Nastavajchenka Valentina Aleksandrovič. Registration number of this order 2194-P7. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:01]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next project, Decree-Law 2194-P8 of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Dubela Valery Alexanderovich. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:26]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next draft Decision of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bondareva Konstantina Anatoliyovich (registration number 2194-P9). Please identify and vote. [[11:57:51]] For-73 The decision is not taken. And the most recent project, the National Vice-President of Labunski Angelika Viktorovna, project number 2194-P10. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:18]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. And the extreme issue is the draft decree for the authorship of the People's Deputy, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, number 2194-P11. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself and vote. [[11:58:49]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, all decrees have been rejected, so the law can be signed and directed to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we have one minute left. I'm calling a break for 30 minutes, till 12:30, and we're meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We're continuing our meeting. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. We are going to consider Bill 4546: draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the mechanisms for the withdrawal of banks from the market and to meet the requirements of the creditors of these banks. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified manner, so we need 150 votes from the national MPs. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I'm asking you to consider this with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:37:12]] For 171 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, in whose interest is this bill? This bill is in the interests of investors and banks. The depositors who were cheated on by the frauds who were taking their money or other people's money, I'm sorry, from the banks. Leading these banks to bankruptcy. During the liquidation of the banks, the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals found money up to 120 billion dollars and set up 700 persons associated with the owners of the banks or the owners themselves of the banks involved in the illegal activity. How did they do that? By crediting connected and potentially connected persons, transferring their own funds to banks located in correspondence accounts in foreign banks in mortgages, purchasing garbage securities, introducing liquid assets from collateral. The law provides for improvements in procedures aimed at preserving the assets of banks in liquidation proceedings, improving the order of liquidation procedures, determining the grounds and detecting misdemeanours, and improving the order of liquidation procedures, clarifying matters of payment to the court, and predicting the possibility of making contracts or agreements with those with whom the guarantee fund is located in court. I'm asking you to back me up. The committee has supported this meeting, and I ask for support in this bill, which will greatly improve the process of liquidation of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Danilo Alexandrovich. As co-reporter of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, National Deputy Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u82	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on April 28th considered the bill 4546, introduced by the national MP, Gettmance, and others. The purpose of the bill is to effectively take steps to get banks out of the market by improving the mechanisms for bank asset conservation. At our committee meeting, we decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Also under the stenogram, Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that the committee has decided to amend the proposed bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules for the Implementation of Protective Mechanisms for the Conservation of Banking Assets and its Benchmarks, by amending articles 149 and 152 of the Civil Procedure Code, Articles 136 and 138 of the Master Procedural Code of Ukraine as an extension of the grounds for securing lawsuits, as well as articles 38 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, Articles 136 and 138 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you sit down, you won't have any questions. Have a seat, please. The word is given to the national deputy of the Ironworks. I got it right, didn't I, Jaroslav Ivanovich? Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u84	After such a powerful statement by the head of the subcommittee, we cannot help but support this bill in the first reading. And, of course, the Voice faction will vote for him. Dear colleagues, there are some comments before this bill, and GNEU has put them well enough in its proposals. And it is necessary for the second reading, especially with regard to the involvement of the bank’s officials in restructuring, on the issue of capital withdrawal, that work will have to be done. But in general, this bill is aimed at the right things. We had a huge problem in the banking sector. She's staying. We have a fraction of the problem loans now, but that's still 40 percent. The problems in the banking sector are not just the problems of bankers, they're problems and entrepreneurs. Because if an entrepreneur or a person who wants to take an apartment at a mortgage can't take it for a small percentage, it's a banking sector problem. That's because we don't have the ability to do that when we have to do that, there's no way to provide additional liquidity. That's why the Voice faction will support this bill, which is primarily aimed at improving the banking sector of Ukraine. We accept in the first reading, we work on the second. And I hope that it will help not only banks to develop in our country, but primarily our people get affordable mortgages, affordable lysing and affordable banking services at low rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u85	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u87	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainians! We'd like to talk about essentially this bill. Because the 4546 draft Law is viewed by the authors as a project to effectively carry out measures to get banks out of the market by improving the mechanisms for preserving the bank's assets, preventing the loss of the bank's assets. The project seems to be semitechnical, however, both the GNEU and the NBA have a huge number of comments on the project, including the expansion of the Fund’s powers of recourse to non-decommissioned individuals. Second, granting a discretionary fund to verify the rights of a liquidated bank is a corrupt risk. Third: a change in the procedures for making peace agreements with debtors in the allocation of powers to the Fund’s directorate to agree on the terms of such agreements. Next, giving the fund the right to determine the sale process of the assets of the decommissioned bank as a whole or as part of it without defining the criteria for such selection. Then giving the fund the right to initiate criminal conduct in any court and arbitration. The project contains a number of disagreements. You have just heard the committee’s decision to make a number of changes according to 116 articles. With great respect for colleagues, but to adopt such draft laws that need to be redrafted before second reading, to write 80 percent, we can't. Let us stop this practice so that the laws come out more qualitative and understandable from the very beginning. And also, you need complex solutions, you need to discuss both the holding fund and the NBA. Why did the NBU make so many comments? We can't vote again for cheese, we're not ready to adopt draft laws, so we're going to hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u88	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, the only thing you signed up for. Two in, two in. You signed up for the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] And Saurasov signed up. Excuse me. Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are in pain here that the banks that come out of the market will close the question to their creditors and responsibility. It's kind of beautiful, but who's the principal creditor of the Ukrainian banks? These are Ukrainians who keep them there and then lose their deposits. History 2014-2015: it was frozen – attention! - 560 billion dollars on course 8, it's easy to divide and understand that it's 60 billion dollars, and the money of the Ukrainians has been frozen. Then the course was 27, and it was estimated that almost 200 billion should not be returned, because there were more deposits than 200,000 dollars, and 400 billion returned at the 28th rate. People lost, attention, $40 billion. So why do we need the IMF, why do we need different banks around the world and others when we just took and robbed people? The authorities took and robbed people. One picks and the other picks. In what way can you please tell me how the Delta Bank assets can be sold at a discount of 98-99 percent? How can that be? And the others, "The Blood Bank and Nadra Bank," and others. That's exactly what money is for people who have been stolen once, and now it's going to be stolen again. That's why you have to hurt people, not some bankers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u90	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, you're opening an explanatory note to this bill -- the purpose of it is to effectively take steps to get the bank out of the market and so on, and so on, and so on, the satisfaction of more bank creditors. And I want to remind you right now that exactly a year ago we had adopted with you a sad anti-banking bill of 2571, which had the same goal, the same goals, and where Vladimir Zelensky sat here, who lied a lot in this Parliament and all of our Ukrainians, and said that after his adoption we would save our economy, that we would have loans from the IMF, that they wouldn't allow, they, the authorities and the servants would not allow asset returns or compensation to the former owners. What's going on now? There are no IMF loans, the economy, you see where it is, I'm not going to talk in the parliament walls, and the former owners are making up for billions of dollars, billions of dollars in the courts. So these bills that you've adopted, they've just been a bump and a fairy, and you're still issuing them and producing new more innocuous bills that violate both the Constitution and all the regulations and regulations that are in force. For example, what you're saying in this explanatory note is that the implementation of the bill when it's adopted will not lead to any additional expenditure from the state budget. But you forget to say that the adoption of the draft law will result in a reduction in government and local budgets. There are still a lot of slaps, a lot of discriminatory norms, very vague procedures, and a lack of clear deadlines in these procedures. In general, I don't think this bill can be adopted, and nothing good will happen after its adoption. I don't know what the interests of this bill really are in the faction of "Serial of the People." I think it's the interests of former bank owners that are lobbying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we've got two-for-two-againsts over. The Bakunec will speak out of motive, I see. And then the Gethmans. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. The word is given to the people's deputy Bakunc, "Trust." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u93	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, this bill is aimed at solving an important problem that is unfortunately inherent in our banking sector, namely: the low efficiency of bank liquidation, that is, the withdrawal of banks from the market. Although existing legislation grants the Deposit Guarantee Fund the right in the event of a bank’s lack of assets in liquidation, it does not work. It is this bill that will help people — that is, help investors get their deposits when the bank is destroyed. That's why the "Trust" MP group is voting on the basis of this bill, with its revision to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nikolaynko, Fatherland. And then the Gethmans. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. Despite the fact that the representative of the committee made clear a number of provisions and articles that should be further developed between the first and second readings, we do appreciate as the great risks and threats that are prescribed in this law, which give far too new powers to the Guarantee Fund. And an understandable motivation, why a fund that has shown so far not its very great efficiency in managing the assets of bankrupt banks, on the contrary, always becoming a centre of corruption investigations and scandals, additional powers, we believe that the fund does not need to be given, as provided for by this law. That's why we're planning on holding up as the Fatherland faction. And if the law is much more sophisticated than the second reading, then we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u96	Thank you. And please, the people's deputy of the Gethmans. Then we go to the vote. I'd like to invite the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Thank you. Let us try to deal with where possible, without unnecessary politics. The law is designed to improve legal procedures in bringing property to those who, in abuse of their position, abuse their rights to their own banks, simply withdraw money from investors, and put it in their pocket. Of course, in these procedures, we must allow the Guarantee Fund to be effective, and this bill is aimed at doing so. Of course, we will work on the second reading. Let's support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u98	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we're all here for the vote. I am voting on the committee's proposal to accept as a basis the committee's proposal to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please support and vote. [[12:55:01]] For 235 Decision taken. Out of procedure, huh? Please, Arahami David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u99	Colleagues, there's a proposal for Bill 5199 to change, to put now, to raise up, and 2713 and not to consider today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, is there a need to vote on this? It is, isn't it? Then I offer David Georgiyovich. The names of the bill, David Georgievich, can you tell? David Georgievicz now proposes to consider Bill 5199. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist Operation to restore the legitimate rights and freedoms of citizens to own property management and to obtain credit services. This is a project of the national deputy of Ephim. And at the same time, he's proposing bills that should go now, 2713. 2713-1, 2713-2, 2713-3 and 2713-d are not to be considered today. Did I put it right, David Georgievich? I then ask for a vote on David of Arahamaia’s proposal to change matters of order and to exclude this issue from today’s session. Please support and vote. [[12:56:53]] For 304 Decision taken. That's a great consensus. Then we move on to question 5199. Now, one second, I need to find him. Now, one second, I'm gonna find a bill. Dear colleagues, while I'm looking for papers here, there's a proposal to ask the first question about the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 5199. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation to restore the legitimate rights and freedoms of citizens to own property management and to obtain credit services. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[12:58:53]] For 328 Decision taken. Then we should vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. I'll put it to a vote. Please support and vote. [[12:59:23]] For 337 Decision taken. And another question that we have to put to a procedural vote with you is to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[12:59:52]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, does this matter need to be discussed? We're voting right now, aren't we? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation to restore the legal rights and freedoms of citizens with regard to the administration of their property and the provision of credit services (project registration number 5199). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:00:49]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, such unanimity. I understand that the committee's decision is to take as a basis, but if the hall doesn't deny it, we can put it in the second and the whole, right? Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, then I am voting in the second and in general, the registration number of Project 5199: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist Operation to restore the legal rights and freedoms of citizens with regard to the administration of their property and the provision of credit services. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:02:05]] For 341 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next question we have is Bill 5230. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the use of property of decommissioned municipal secondary education facilities in rural areas. People's MP Pippa Natalia's project. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting this issue under a reduced procedure. You need to get 150 votes, I think. Please support and vote. [[13:03:12]] For 256 Decision taken. The author of the bill, National Deputy of Ukraine Pipa Natalia Romanovna, is invited to the floor. Please, Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u101	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Why did the bill unanimously support the committee, and why is the bill requested by the communities? This bill is primarily about schools in rural areas that communities can't use right now because of the difficult demographic situation, and these schools are being demolished accordingly. This bill will enable schools to be maintained in good condition and, once the demographic situation has changed, open them up again. There are 843 schools in Ukraine, 2,000 of which are small-scale, 365 schools are now eliminated. So this bill will allow them to rent and the money to be used for educational purposes. This means that you can buy a new bus to the nearest school or make a good class in another school. That is to say, once again, only the rural area and the schools that are now closed. At important times, he was supported unanimously in the committee because they understand the need for this property to be destroyed and not beneficial, but could. I also heard comments from colleagues, such as health schools and special schools. And we're ready to work on the second reading, and in order for there to be no different interpretations, take the question out at all, write this rule separately. That's why I'm asking. Which of the good things, for example, in the Lviv region is 607 schools, 24 schools no longer work. And for example, Fight Gop in one of those schools could open up a sports center that he couldn't open right now. So this is a law for communities, and that's why I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u102	Thank you, Natalia Romanovna. Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to a co-reporter for the bill to the head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation of Lis Oleni Georgievni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u103	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation at its meeting on 14.04, in accordance with article 93 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, has considered a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the use of property-disposed municipal secondary education facilities in rural areas. The bill is proposed by amending the laws of Ukraine on State and Municipal Property Rental and General Secondary Education to allow local self-government authorities to freely use the property of decommissioned general secondary education institutions for the needs of the local community, and is now only possible for education, social protection, culture and health services, to rent property for the disposal of general secondary education facilities in rural areas, and to channel rental costs exclusively to educational needs. As indicated in the explanatory note, the project is designed to secure, at the level of law, the possibility for unified territorial communities to effectively manage the property of the decommissioned municipal secondary education institutions located in rural areas, and in particular to allow them to freely use the property of decommissioned secondary education institutions for the needs of local communities not only for education, social protection, culture, and health care and rental. The committee received expert conclusions on a bill from the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community Development and the Ukrainian territory, supported by the bill, taking into account the refinement of the lease in the context of temporary use of assets, including the lands of educational institutions, and the term "educational needs" in respect of compliance with the principle of legal certainty, the avoidance of possible interpretations. In view of the above, the Education and Innovation Committee makes a proposal to the Supreme Council to include a bill in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, recommending to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes, then I ask you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Natalie Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u106	Natalie Pip, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u107	The crowds were waiting and asking about the bill. Once again, I remind you that this standard is very optimal and will help us to keep schools in good condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pavlovenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u109	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" will be the basis for supporting this bill. Indeed, it is a problem that needs to be solved for a long time, and the committee’s second reading is already a workable tradition to make draft laws almost impeccable. But there are other problems that need to be mentioned in this key, especially in the context of the vaccination of teachers, the risk insurance and social insurance of health - care workers, since, unfortunately, we have, although the minister is already retired, a number of problems remain in the safety and health of citizens. We too need to keep this in mind and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u110	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Pauline Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u112	Yuri Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u113	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We're not going to support this law because, in fact, and in the form of this bill, it shows where we're being led by today's authorities. And it leads us to a significant reduction in the population of the country. Last year, I will remind you, fewer than 300,000 children were born in Ukraine. By comparison, in 2013 it was almost 510,000 children born during the year. This year can be the worst in terms of birth in all years of independence. And yet all the family-supported social programs to protect children are, unfortunately, cut short. In addition, we see a situation where schools are often closed to specific people who want to privatize them by taking their children’s objects from their commercial interests. That's why we're voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u114	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Road of Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Suško Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u116	Paul Susko, please, the "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u117	Paul Susko, deputy head of the "Serve of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, I, with all due respect to the committee members, to the authors of this law, would like to say that how long can children with disabilities be abused? For them, special schools are the only chance of a full life in the future. What's going on now? Now we have adopted a deinstitutionalization strategy, where special schools are being mass closed. These special schools have modern areas, modern buildings, and have an attractive place for future hotels. They're singled out, like the Carpathians, with one stroke of 6 schools, and now they're waiting for this bill to be directed, not to the interests of the children, but to other interests, they say, for the community. But children are also a community. For example, the interpreter, we went from TSK to Interpreter. The bet is closed, the state-of-the-art facility is closed because they didn't find money on it, but they left it as a prison. I showed you here, in the Supreme Council, from the rostrum. This is where they find the money. Colleagues, with all due respect, but what do the authors suggest? In the second reading, work on it. What, though, is involved in further work? This is to return the rights to the active norm and just add one buffer. Colleagues, let's do it when it comes to children with disabilities, such sensitive issues, and the unprotected segments of the population, let's do it, let's do it. We need to gather a working group, discuss this in all areas, and then just take it out into the hall. Today, your hands are offered to take risks and to give you the opportunity to correct them. I'm asking you not to support the bill. Let them process it, and then we'll vote for it, and we'll let the communities own it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Are there any other speakers? I see. I invite Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Then there's three more performances of one minute, and then we're going to vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u119	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I want to continue with my previous colleague, who has quite rightly noticed and pointed out things that are very resonant today in society. How can this be resolved? Note what my colleague Pip said in his opening remarks: To preserve educational institutions for the future, so that they will not be stretched out. And maybe the next generation of parliamentarians will be smarter and will be involved in the social development of the village, these schools will be needed. Thus, for the second reading, there must be such safeguards. And we're going to add these fuses to the second reading. We have a united territorial community, one to ten, which means that 9 schools are closed. Should we agree, then, with the centrally united community or with those villages? Probably, with these villages, we need to gather citizens and consult them. We're going to make this right. Just based on people’s thoughts, we will rent to those who will save this facility for future education. In general, I would like to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u120	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Next, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, the Group "For the Future" is made up of major MPs. And before we voted in favour of such an important social and educational bill, we had a series of consultations with our deputies and education professionals in the districts. In general, the idea of the bill is supported because there are many such facilities that are not used. And they've been locked up for a long time. Of course, these facilities can and should be used for educational purposes, for social purposes. And we think we need to put the fuses out. And all our adjustments that we prepare for the second reading will apply, first of all, to take into account the processes of decentralization, to take into account the interests of communities, to take into account the interests of parents. But the problem of rural education remains. It remains unfunded, it remains discriminatory, so we'll support it in the first reading, but the second reading, be it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u122	Thank you. And please, the word "Bilozer Larissa Mikolayovni." Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u123	Larissa Bilozer, Trust MP, Winnitzkin. Colleagues, in fact, here is the bill that needs to be redrafted, but it's serious. And I agree with the head of the Temporary Commission of Inquiry for the Protection of the Rights of Children with Disabilities, that there is definitely a need to exclude from this list of lasagna for some -- sanatoriums and special schools that are located in beautiful parks, in nice rooms, and in order not to violate the rights of children with disabilities. But in general, we know that schools in rural, rural councils are being massively closed today, and we have a problem that they're just being destroyed, and we can use them for education, culture, and medicine today. But we need to allow communities to manage this property and be able to rent it on the condition that the funds go into the education budget. So I suggest you accept it and work on it. If the TSC requirements are not taken into account, do not vote in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. People's deputies please take their seats. We're going to the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the use of property-free municipal secondary education in rural areas (draft No.5230). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:18:24]] For 285 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. I see that's where Alexander Sergiyovich was going to say? Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, there is now a proposal for the next bill not to be considered today because there is no health condition for either Grishna or Babak in the hall, and there is simply no one to report to us for a second reading. Instead, consider Bill 5068 on the order of election of members of the R & D. It's an important draft for macrophin. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u126	Okay. Honorable colleagues, 5068 raise, and 4486 do not deal with the disease of reporters today. Dear colleagues, there's no objection, but let's vote, 226 votes need to be put to such a change in order, issues of order of the day. So I'm voting on the proposal by Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. So please support and vote. [[13:19:52]] For-286 Decision taken. So we're moving on to question 5068. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the procedure of election (delegation) for members of the High Council of Justice and the activities of disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of this bill's consideration under a reduced procedure. We need to get 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[13:20:32]] For 256 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister Banchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u127	Good afternoon, colleagues! Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is presented by a bill tabled by the President. It's defined as an immediate bill. And its purpose is to introduce professional ethics and integrity into the work of judicial authorities. The bill provides for the establishment of an Ethics Council, which will consist of six members. 3 members will be delegated from the number of judges or judges in the resignation of the Council of Judges of Ukraine and 3 members from the international partners that have been working with Ukraine in the fight against corruption or in the area of judicial reform over the past 3 years. The second issue envisaged by the bill is that it empowers members of the relevant Council of Ethics to carry out a review of the candidates for the posts of members of the High Council of Justice and to make recommendations on the candidates concerned accordingly. The next item in the bill is the introduction of full competition rules for the selection of candidates for the post of members of the High Council of Justice. And the fourth item in the bill is the creation of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors in the structure of the High Council of Justice and giving them appropriate powers. It is also a very important authority. If we introduce the bill, and according to the legislation, the requirement of integrity, the bill provides that the members of the High Council of Justice should also go through the proper procedure to verify them in accordance with the principles of integrity. And these recommendations will be implemented by the Ethical Council, as foreseen by the bill. It should also be pointed out that the Venice Commission had made a preliminary acceptance of the bill. And so we think that there is no reference to the possible unconstitutionality in this bill, because the relevant positions, the corresponding powers of the Council of Ethics, are in no way infringing on constitutional status.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u128	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. All of it. Well, you're asking for backup. That's how I realized you couldn't tell. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Ukrainian National Deputy Andrija Evgenovich Kostin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This bill on the continuation of reform and the completion of the reform of the High Council of Justice. This is the principal, highest judicial authority in Ukraine. Mr. Deputy Minister has already identified the main novels of this bill, which relate to ensuring the principle of integrity both by the new members of the High Council of Justice and by examining the integrity of the active members of the High Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Ukraine sent this bill to conclude with the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission, together with the Directorate-General for Human Rights and the Rule of Law of the Council of Europe, gave this urgent conclusion at the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In considering this issue, the committee understands that the bill will be thoroughly worked out between the first and the second readings, including taking into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission. They're all listed in the committee's conclusions, and you had the opportunity to get to know them. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading of draft Law No. 5068, submitted by the President as an urgent matter, to accept as a basis, to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce at a plenary meeting during the consideration of the bill on the need for proposals and amendments for corrections, clarifications, the elimination of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill and other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not the subject of the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. The committee also proposed to the legislators the right to formulate recommendations from the Venice Commission and the Directorate-General for Human Rights and the rule of law of the Council of Europe as amendments and proposals to the bill. Please support in the first reading, we will work on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u130	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes, of course. I have to ask, Sergey Volodymyrovich. So I'm going to sign up: two, two, against so that all the national MPs can exercise their right to speak. Please. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, today we are looking at in the first reading a bill initiated by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine and defined as urgent. This is one of those bills that should ensure that the activities of the High Council of Justice comply with constitutional requirements and recommendations, including those of our international partners. The essence of this bill is to improve the activities of the High Council of Justice, to restore confidence in the Higher Council of Justice of the Ukrainian Society and to effectively carry out its functions by this constitutional body. As far as the Disciplinary Inspectors Service is concerned, they must become the auxiliary element, the auxiliary mechanism that will ensure the professional preparation of all cases under consideration by the High Council of Justice, before and accordingly the approval of well-founded, well-balanced decisions by the Higher Council of Justice. That is why I call on all Ukrainian national deputies to support this bill. There are indeed a number of comments to it, including those made in the recommendations of our partners, the Venice Commission, but these are the comments and suggestions that can be taken into account between the first and the second readings. And the head of the Committee on Legal Policy made it clear that the position of the committee between the first and the second readings was to finalize the bill in order to ensure that it did not raise objections in any way from the point of view or from the point of view of future procedures for the work of the High Council of Justice. Our political force, the "Serial of the People" Party, will support this bill. And I call upon all other national MPs who intend to make the High Council of Justice effective, and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u132	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Word is, I get it, Oleg Anatolyovich, right? Oleg Anatolyovich Makarov, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly stressed that a formal and unsuspecting approach to judicial reform is unacceptable. It has been more than a year and a half since the thoughtless liquidation of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. Since then, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges has not been working, the Higher Council of Justice has not been reformed, the selection of judges has not taken place before the courts. The Voice insisted from the outset that the selection of candidates for members of the High Council of Justice should take place on competitive grounds, which is the first part of the bill. That's why Voice will support this bill in the first reading. With regard to checking the integrity of the valid members of the High Council of Justice, we are convinced that such verification should be effective and be carried out in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. The question of the establishment of the Institute of Disciplinary Inspectors in the High Council of Justice, or in some other way, is thoughtless, in my opinion. I am convinced that this issue will lead to the greatest discussion and the risk that due to the thoughtless proposal of introducing disciplinary inspectors, the adoption of a law that is very important and relevant in general. I propose and call on my colleagues to support the bill in the first reading by redrafting it for second reading, excluding rules that do not correspond to the Constitution and that are contrary to common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u134	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, please "Fathership", the All-Ukrainian Association of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear Sir, I have a simple question: how much can political slogans be said about judicial reform? I have in my hands the conclusions of the Venice Commission on this bill. What is stated in this conclusion by the Venice Commission. First. No systemality in the legislative provision of judicial reform is demonstrated by the Ukrainian Parliament. There are some little questions that come out of the context, and then they're going to come out of the context that's not known how. The other one. The mechanism proposed at the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice, where the undisputed influence of foreign representatives, does not even meet the requirements of the Venice Commission. This is clearly stated in the conclusion. Third, according to the Venice Commission, the Venice Commission sees in a series of rules this bill as a possibility of violating the Ukrainian Constitution. So how can we vote for this law? How can we talk about something if even the Venice Commission, which in principle always says that there must be a foreign component, but even the Venice Commission has pointed out that, as it was written, this is essentially the transfer of the judicial system of Ukraine to the influence of foreign representatives? And by the way, no one told us that this law is designed to improve the functioning of the system by a judicial system, because it is not. This law is intended to implement the IMF Memorandum, which is recorded in the conclusions of the Venice Commission and in all other documents. Once again, you can't even cut 600 million dollars like salami, the state sovereignty of Ukraine. We had already been chosen by the foreign directors of the NAB, we had already been chosen by foreign representatives, already foreigners on the oversight boards. Show the effectiveness of this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u136	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Please give the floor to the Honourable People's Deputy German Vassil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u138	Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Germany's Opposition Platform for Life. First of all, I want to continue with my colleague who spoke. The Venice Commission, in its three conclusions, has clearly indicated the wrongness of our bills that foreign experts, auditors, inspectors or members of a competitive commission can participate in the formation of permanent organs, including in the judicial system. That was at three. I'll remind you that only the President turned, they clearly said that the President was wrong, he was mocking the Constitutional Court and so on, let's not allow any influence on the judiciary. Secondly, I want to tell you that if you step out of the Constitution, read, the judiciary works autonomously as an independent branch of government, and the executive branch or the presidential guard, the vertical, have no right to interfere. So what do we do when we create, inspectors, we offer? So what do we do when we make foreigners, and we point out that since we are donors, we pay you money, we should participate in the selection of the High Council of Justice personnel? I want to inform you that article 131 of the Constitution recognizes the Supreme Council of Justice as a constitutional body that has to decide on its own, corporately in the entire system of judicial institutions, what the administration of the judiciary is. And we have judicial authority under the power of the Presidential Vertical, and more and more executive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone like to speak? I'm seeing a national MP named Polakov. Then I gave him my word. And please invite the National Deputies to the Hall, and we will proceed to the vote afterwards. The word is given to the national MP, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, please look what you're about to accept. You're about to help us usurp President Zelenski's authority. You're making him another dictator, and I don't know where he's going. Because he started with the Constitutional Court when he didn't like something when KSU was supposed to admit to blocking the land bill and the other pearls that this Supreme Council with the Servants of the People issued. Then OASK was when we were going to get the first president of corruption in the history of Ukraine. And now it's about to happen. It completely destroys Parliament's functions with regard to IDPs, with regard to the monitoring and appointment of all members of IDPs. It's in the Parliamentary-President Republic. You don't listen to Mr. Fedor here talking about some good things, because you and your president will be responsible for getting out of office.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite the National Deputies to take their seats, and we will proceed to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the procedure of election (delegation) for members of the High Council of Justice and the activities of the disciplinary inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration number 5068). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:37:43]] For 245 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. Please, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u143	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Now, we're going to go to a court-martialed ruling on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for so-called "vagners" -- a Russian terrorist organization consisting of tens of thousands of terrorists, whose consciences include thousands of Ukrainians who have died: MN17, Il-76 under Lugani Airport, An-26, the torture of Ukrainians in captivity and many other crimes. For more than a year, the majority has not given their representatives the opportunity to prevent the creation of this Interim Investigation Commission, which is, in fact, on the side of the enemy. Let me remind you, they're going to be pushing up their commission right now. Temporary commission investigators are a constitutional mechanism of opposition to parliamentary control. The authorities have law - enforcement, supervisory authorities to implement the information they possess. I was shocked when journalists now issued instructions from the President's Office to the majority people's deputies, ordering them not to vote in favour of the TSK commission and to vote in favour of Yegorka with a 750 million dereban as bribes. When was there more humiliation in Parliament? Once again, my friends, we must unite and protect the people. I would like to stress that we have to protect not the "dread" in the higher political leadership of the state, which at first denied the very fact that this operation was being carried out. And as the fifth president and former Chief of Staff, I was forced to disclose information that I had authorized, in cooperation with international partners, this operation, which was called the brilliant operation of the Ukrainian Special Forces. And to this day I would like to emphasize: Do not be afraid that anyone in authority will suffer. Fear that Ukraine will be affected, that the authority of our international intelligence cooperation will be undermined, and now we absolutely need it to stop the Russian invasion and the Russian invasion. I call primarily on the representatives of the majority. This is a historic vote, and it depends on how you will be remembered. Support Wagner's Order, support our services, support that criminals should be punished, including the Hague Court, including Putin. Thank you and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the issue of the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of information published in the media of possible illegal actions by officials, which could have led to the avoidance of criminal liability by members of the "private military company Wagner" and damage to Ukraine's national interests (registration number 4105). Before that, we should vote in favour of this issue under a reduced procedure. To do that, we need 150 votes. Ready to vote? We vote in favour of a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:42:18]] For 171 Decision taken. We're looking at this with a reduced procedure. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. Please, the author of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally come to the conclusion that this decision has been made in the hall. And if it is accepted, society will be able to know the truth whether there was treason in the higher leadership of the state and whether our spies were betrayed. And this is not a political issue at all, this is a matter of national security and the role of this Parliament. Because Parliament is an institution that has been chosen by the people, especially in order to control the government and the President, and to correct their mistakes. I believe that the creation of this interim commission of inquiry will show our society, the international partners, that Ukraine is a democratic state in which Parliament responds adequately to all national security challenges. We must protect our spies who risk their lives every day to preserve our country. We must show our officers that we will not let anyone betray them. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we must, once again, urge everyone to unite right around this provisional commission of inquiry, vote it out, find out whether there has been a betrayal in the Office of the President. And once and for all, put a dot on this issue. Thank you for your attention. Please support this Decree 4105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u146	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenko, is invited to attend. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u147	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered a draft regulation establishing a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of alleged illegal acts of officials published in the media, which could have led to the avoidance of criminal liability by members of the "private military company Wagner" and damage to Ukraine's national interests (registration No. 4105). According to the factions' proposals to the Commission's personnel, the factions are proposed: the Voice Party, the European Solidarity Party and the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union. From other factions of political parties, MP groups, there were no proposals regarding the quantity, personal composition of this Temporary Investigation Commission. There are no representatives of these factions in the draft decrees. The Regulatory Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft Decree 4105 be decided by voting with the Committee’s observations. In particular, the committee drew attention to editorial inaccuracies in the formulation of the draft regulation, and in paragraph 4, the word "set" should be replaced by the word "definition" and delete the word "groups". In addition, the Regulatory Committee noted that the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" had been proposed to select the deputy head of this Temporary Investigation Commission of the People's Deputies of Honcharenko, which was also proposed as a member of the Temporary Commission, the registration number of the draft decision was 2451. In some cases, I will point out that the draft decision was withdrawn, which was finalized, and was also considered by the regulatory committee. So I remind you that according to the regulations of the Rules and the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, temporary special commissions of the national deputy can only be elected to one commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u148	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Yes. Please. Is that right? Yes. Then I ask you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. National MP Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Please. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, my friends, I refer to those whom I consider to be my friends regardless of factional belongings. A national deputy is such a separate special title, which delegates you a very large degree of freedom and independence, and you need a small conscience. I point out that in accordance with the Constitution, regardless of whether you've been chosen by party lists or by majority, you're called a national deputy, you represent the entire nation. The National MP is the only natural person who, apart from the President, has the right to legislative initiative. Each of you has the right to represent the nation and to offer it to the people. It's a very simple question, it's a question that's actually a marker for you, how free you are, how free you are and how independent you are. It's very simple -- to press the pros button, by mentioning what principles you stood for on Maidan, what principles you stood for on the front, how you lived, and how you would look into the eyes of your colleagues and your constituents. It's actually just press the pros button.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Buzansky Maxim Arkadyovich instead of Marchuk Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I remind you that a year and a half ago the Supreme Council was unable to create a TSC for the deaths of people in Odessa. I couldn't, I promised to go back to that question, figure out who was responsible for the death of people, but somehow it didn't happen. It's probably not an important question for seven years, who killed people and why, or how. And now we're looking at two political forces trying to use, I'm not even saying the situation, their opinion of what might have happened, for political speculation. Once again, these are honest speculations about the national security of the country. I'm here to protect our national security in every way, but I'm against speculation. And we all know that these are just political games. So I suggest you not to support this decision, not to listen to what you are told. There has already been a sentence, a sentence passed in advance. We don't play games like this with security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u152	The word is given to the Slavic deputy Antonini Kerimovni, since the national deputy Eutusek will not take the floor. Please, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u153	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, for the last few months we've been hearing in the media, and in various performances, everywhere we don't hear from, were there any "vagners" or were there "vagners", was there or was there not? I think we should put a dot in this story. I am especially interested, and I would have made such a temporary commission in my place of authority in order to get things straight. If there has been treachery, we need to get rid of these traitors and put them in jail for doing so. If there was no betrayal, of course, shut your mouth and do not speculate on it. Personally for me, as for a person who has worked for less than a decade in security agencies, and has passed through my hands very many and operational and criminal cases, especially for me, it's very interesting: has this work been done in an operational-search case, and by whom, in association with someone or on their own? That's the first one. Second, were there any "vagners" or were they employees? Why? Because "vagers" is a private army. It is accompanied by security forces, necessarily by the Ministry of Defense. So what was that, anyway? They have their weapons, their planes, and so forth. Were they actually paid? I'm curious, too. I have my own opinion, my own conclusions, and I'm not going to make them. I'm just asking a question. Next. Was it betrayal or not? Was it a fairy tale or were there actions? So I think that as part of a temporary commission of inquiry, we need to get the experts together and really figure it out: either it was or it wasn't. And put a dot on that. So that various journalists and questionable investigative organizations do not earn money in this, nor do they undermine our authority, opposition, or society. Just so we can live and know where the truth is. Personally, I will support the creation of such a commission in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another faction of motives. And let's go to the vote. There's gonna be some other motive, isn't there? Ariev will be motivated, I see. Okay. Then, please, Eutusek - 1 minute, Ariev - 1 minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, we have two draft rulings on the agenda. Until the first one that we're looking at, the Fatherland faction has given its candidacy and will represent the Sergey Eutuszk faction on this committee, i.e. I. I think that, since we're talking about the foundations of our country's national security, if this decision doesn't take on the majority, and I have to, I'll remind you, 150 votes, we have to do it anyway, because the issue is so great and resonant and it has such a great social request, we have to investigate these matters. In a meeting of the committee, representatives of another commission, Marianne Besugal and David Arahami, also promised that one of the first issues would be to consider the issue of “vagners. ” Fatherland is voting for both the first commission and the second commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Arjev Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u157	You are now looking at the killed Ukrainian paratroopers and fliers who were killed by Russian mercenaries, the Wagnerians in 2014. You're being looked at today by employees, honest officers of the Special Forces, who were humiliated by the fact that their work, which was extremely difficult, was being poured out at the same time. I, as a national deputy and journalist of my own time, discovered the lie and the BIA and the Office of the President of Ukraine that there was no special operation, giving all the necessary documents to do so. So, please tell me, all the people and families of the dead, and the officers, and everyone else has no right to know the truth? Don't be afraid of this truth, it'll still be when Bellingcat gives up his investigation. Do not be afraid of your essays today and vote for us to show ourselves bold before the world today, for the truth will come out, and Ukraine will be disgraced. So let's think first of all about both Ukraine and about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u158	Thank you. National MP Rudik. After that, we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u159	The interim commission of inquiry is a collegiate body made up of national deputies for a period of time whose purpose is to investigate issues of social importance. On January 16, 20th, a project was registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create a TSK on the investigation of the murder of journalist Sheremet. In May, the profile committee put a draft decree on the creation of this TSC into our hall. And to this day is a miracle! - No one's looking at her. Eight months ago, the whole world was about Wagnerians. And it's just today, eight months from now, that we're looking at a case that the secretary of the PNB said, "We don't have any data, so we're not looking at it." I'm going to have a light bulb, which is going to be called the TSC. I've got a light bulb, who's gonna be her head. But let us exercise our parliamentary control over the important, resonant things that society requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u160	Please, Shahov. Then we go to the vote. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I fully support Sergey Rudik's statement that today's interim commission of inquiry is not an effective mechanism for resolving issues. Three months ago, a commission was created, with the head of which is Ruslan Gorbenko, the secretary - Sergey the Great, and another 15 national deputies who concluded at the top of the fires in the Luhansk region, after killing the people to punish and release Hayday from his post. The killer sits in the military-civil administration and robs the area for billions of dollars! Today, all law enforcement agencies remain silent. You're a liar! And today, no one in power is paying attention to that. It's crime and collaboration inside our country. Look, dear fellows, that's what you're looking for. There should be parliamentary control and banning these officials from ruling our country today. It's not just to remove it, it's to plant the bad guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before we go to the vote, I continue for 15 minutes the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Publicised Media Cases of Possible Offences by Officials, which could have led to the avoidance of criminal liability by members of the "private military company Wagner" and to the detriment of Ukraine's national interests (project No. 4105). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:58:54]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Show by factions. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the draft ruling. I don't have to read it, I have to ask you to show it, see the Rules. Let's move on. I am moving on to the draft Decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible illegal actions by representatives of the State and other persons who have contributed to the violation of State sovereignty and territorial integrity and have threatened the national interests and security of Ukraine (project registration number 5243). Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we consider this issue with a reduced procedure, and we need to get 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[13:59:49]] For 237 Decision taken. I say again, I'm going to continue, but until the end of this discussion. I invite you, please, to the words of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Arahami David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u163	Colleagues, I'm going to be very brief. From the very beginning, we had a big discussion about both the incident with the Wagnerians and all the endless Medvedchuk films that we're looking at right now in Mr. Bigus' investigation and the previous films that were published. All these moments have some signs that can be viewed as having signs of treason. Given that we have small factions and groups and there is a real deficit of MPs who can be on a temporary commission of inquiry at the same time, so we've decided to create a larger interim commission that can look at all of these episodes, I emphasize, all of these episodes. And we have a prior agreement with the "Fatherland" faction, Mr. Eutuszk, who has just reported that after the failure of the previous vote, he will join. And as far as I knew, in one of the broadcasters of the European Solidarity Party, she also said that if that committee had just passed, they would give their candidate. So it's going to be a representative commission that can deal with these issues in accordance with the law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u164	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u165	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The regulatory committee at its meeting considered the draft Decree-Law 5243. The Committee decided to recommend to Parliament that it consider this draft regulation and take a decision in accordance with part three of Article 138 of the Rules, taking into account the comments of the Committee and the proposals for clarifying the drafting of the Order. In particular, the committee noted that the drafting of the decision required editorial clarification in the name and main tasks of the TSC, namely: "On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible illegal actions by representatives of State authorities and other persons who may have contributed to the violation of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine, jeopardizing Ukraine's national security." The main tasks are to present the following in the paper: "Research and investigation of the facts regarding the possible granting by representatives of the authorities of Ukraine and other persons of the aggressor State of the promotion of illegal activities against the foundations of national security of Ukraine, the detection of threats to sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity, defence, national, economic and information security of Ukraine, and the use of measures to prevent such threats." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u166	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Only I would like to bet and vote today. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ustenek Alexi Olegovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u167	Please pass the word to David of Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u168	David Arahami, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u169	Please tell Mr. Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u170	All of it. I can't pass twice. Thank you for your time. Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u171	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u172	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u173	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, we're not going to support the creation of this TSC. This is because there are perfectly objective and understandable reasons for doing so. Because a similar TSC is actually pulling the job, probably all the law enforcement agencies, starting with the prosecutor’s office and finishing the Security Service, it's a huge, huge job. Just think what they're talking about: "by investigating possible illegal actions by state officials and other persons who have contributed to the violation of state sovereignty." From what year will you examine these questions? What's the plan of action? What are you planning to do? The woods in Luhansk, or Balaklia, or Ichnia, or in the end what, or the Fifth Column in the Supreme Council, or the West of Aksion here? Nine months, the entire international community is talking about "wagners." And that's what's causing the TSC to actually blur the focus, and we're not going to get it, I guarantee we won't hear the conclusions about the Wagners until, unfortunately, Bellingcat gets through our noses and shows us who's to blame. And you know, the invaders are scary. And the collaborators who are sitting at the President's Office are twice as scary. We are definitely against the creation of this TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u174	Thank you. I'd like to have a word with you. Who's it gonna be? Alexeiovich Honcharenko, please, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u175	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. It just failed to really create a temporary commission of inquiry on "vagners," because the authorities are afraid of this investigation. Because in this investigation she understands what's going to happen to herself, and so now we're being deceived: as if we were to set up a commission to investigate the possible wrongdoing of representatives of the government and other persons who contributed to the violation and carried it. Guys, are we going to be looking at this from the time of the hops or what time? You could have put it all together: about everything bad that's in the state. Look at the composition of this TSC, which is where it's made up as a substitute for the LRA. But maybe you should put Medvedchuk as your deputy who's under house arrest? And this is about transmitting information to the traitorous aggressor state. It's a disgrace you've done, you're lying to people. You promised on every air that you would set up a commission to investigate the situation. You're creating a deception to bury this case so that the people will never know who from the nearest environment of the Green Shower is the operation to detain the Wagnerians, who is the traitor. And if you're covering for a traitor, that means you're all traitors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u176	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, of course, you could continue the rhetoric that our colleagues from Voice have just taken, from European Solidarity, and continue to insist that here is good, good, and there are bad people, and it's much more difficult to take and vote for the creation of this TSC as well. I voted in favour of creating the first TSC, but I won 97 votes. If there are no 97 votes for the second TSC, it may not happen either. And it's not easier to take a personal part in her work, to stand up for this question to be number one, not number 16, and to prove itself right, and so that the entire Ukrainian society knows that President Zelensky is involved and that his immediate environment is not involved. I think that would be better. You know, I have a personal relationship, so uncertain, to the new leadership of this possible TSC. What? I've been saying and saying again in this room: I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a headlight, I'm going to have a head light bulb, I'm going to have a head light bulb, I'm going to have a head light bulb, I'm going to have a head light bulb, I'm going to be in the governing organs of this TSC, but I'm not going to have a light bulb, but I'm not going to have a light bulb, and I'm going to get a light bulb, and I'm going to get all the end up Enter, vote, explore, and participate directly. And there's more. Dear colleagues, let's make a decision on Sheremet in this room. For 16 months, the man was sitting. Someone has to be responsible for this? Three people, two of them are women, they're doing innocent research, and I don't know what else to say. Is that not a sufficient social interest to be considered in this Parliament? Put to the vote on the next plenary day, and we have to put a dot in both this and other resonant issues that society expects of us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else does? Chess. I see, I see, yes. Come on. One minute at a time. Just please, hurry up. National deputy Shahov. Then it's from the OCJ.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the paper will hold. Age, age 15 years. What was gathered from this hall, from other plenary sessions, will still be on the surface. Because it's always raining. And the punishment will still find those who committed the crime: those who are robbing the state today; those who are burning the woods are killing people; those who have done the collaboration of the Luhansk, Donek regions. From this rostrum today, he said that the Kyiv Court of Appeal had already ruled that the elections in Luhansk and Donetskina had been illegally annulled. We've left a million people with a completely constitutional right to choose for themselves. Also, the interim fire commission in Luhansk concluded, and from that chair the villains must be taken to prison. But zero. Once again, the paper will hold. Yet, the truth is true.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u180	Thank you. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. And then we move on to the vote, dear colleagues. Please. "The opposition platform is for life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u181	People's MP Skorik, faction of the Opposition Platform for Life. Most of our faction supported the previous Order on the Temporary Investigative Commission on Wagnerians. Because we respect the entire room and believe that if a temporary commission of inquiry is proposed, it should be. But I'm disgusted with these games that are now going on with both the previous committee and this. Everyone understands that political pressure is being exerted on our one-partyist Victor Medvedchuk, and we have to say, hands off Victor Medvedchuk and stop political repression. That's the first one. And secondly, if you're talking about the temporary commission of inquiry, what crimes might we have in the state, and what can we investigate? If you haven't investigated the Mayan murders, the mass murders you call the Dignity Revolution, if you haven't investigated the mass murder of people on May 2nd in Odessa, what are you talking about? There is no law or Constitution in this state! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-19-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of a draft decree, taking into account the Committee's proposals, on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible illegal actions by representatives of State authorities and other persons who have contributed to the violation of State sovereignty and territorial integrity and have threatened Ukraine's national interests and security (registration number 5243). I repeat, acceptance in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:11:58]] For 252 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Thank you.
