ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. And I remind you once again that once the registration is started, it's necessary to hold the "Z" green button. Holding the sensor button, pressing the "Z" green button and keeping it up until the end of the registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:01:55]] There are 145 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, before you begin your work, I would like to share with you some good news. The Parliamentary Channel "The Council" is developing and becoming modern. I'm going to point out that once again, since its establishment, the channel has not been updated, but as of today, "The Council" has started speaking in the modern HD format. The viewers will soon see not only a quality picture but also new studios, an updated briefing site, press conferences, and so forth. I invite you to cooperate with the updated Parliamentary Channel "The Council" of all the heads of the MPs, of all the national MPs. Be active in the air, share your work for the benefit of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. Dear colleagues, please prepare yourself and enroll the national deputies for the performance. Please sign up for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity". She's Zinkiewich. Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich, please. One second. I ask the apparatus to provide all necessary measures for the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. We're waiting, yes. Okay, okay, okay. Please secure the apparatus. Please, Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u2	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm really asking you to listen carefully, because an extraordinary situation has taken place and a precedent is taking place. As you know, we have this battalion called Sheikh Mansour. They're foreign volunteers, very well-deserved, which we're sure we all know about. These are mostly Chechens who have no return to their country. It was for them and other such foreign fighters that we adopted an important law yesterday so that they could have citizenship. But what's happening right now is that three months ago, the BSS has been putting pressure on the witnesses who witnessed to these alien fighters to become a participant in hostilities. What happens if they still touch the witnesses? If at least one witness gives up one Chechen fighter, all those who have received UBD through this testimony will lose their status. The precedent took place two months ago with the UN battalion, as well as depriving two other fighters of their already well - deserved status. If this happens, some 44 witnesses will lose their status. This is the UDA's 8th Aratta Battalion, and this is Sheikh Mansour's battalion, and these are also volunteers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u3	I'd like to draw your attention, my friends, to the fact that it's not just a loss of status, it's a loss of status for all of us. The year is 2014. The citizens of this country have protected our country, including foreign volunteers who have come to our home. In 2019, a joint effort, thank God, was able to establish the status of participants in combat for volunteers. Pressure is now being exerted by officials on military personnel acting in all manner of ways to ensure that they do not do so. People’s hands try to make such a pressure. And that's not the only one. On various grounds, they try not to give new passports, fully blocked citizenship work. Thank you to all who voted in favour of the simplified order of citizenship for foreign volunteers. But that is not all. And the thing about the moles, unfortunately, we're just starting out, because when the right hand rewards our brothers, including the highest, the left hand at this time is trying to get out of this country under any circumstances of our brothers, including strangers. Once again, we want to say that we will not simply keep quiet. It's about fighters, it's about honor and dignity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u4	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u5	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, a respected Ukrainian people! In the last week of this year, I would like to pay attention to two such important things. First. It's that since January 1st we have the Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition. This is a very important law for our country, and from this time on, the formation of territorial defense and resistance will begin. So I now urge all concerned citizens to join the territorial defense of resistance and ensure the security of our country. Only when the enemy sees us alone and does everything to protect our nation will we be unapproachable to him. And the second. Almost all the political forces that went to Parliament two years ago spoke of the need to reform the Ukrainian Security Service, which we wanted to start in 2022. Unfortunately, we now see that the bill has not yet been voted on and that we cannot talk about reform, it is being passed on as far as we know. So I now urge all the political forces that made such promises that next year, in the first plenary week, we will put this bill in place, and in an articleistic manner, once we have passed it, we will adopt and begin a reform that is so important to our state. We must all keep our promises to the electorate. We must finally turn the Security Service from a descendant of the KGB into a modern intelligence service that can meet those challenges that the environment is now creating and, in particular, the Russian Federation. Therefore, once again, honourable colleagues, the reform of the BSS should be carried out, and all the articles should be published in this room in a step - by - step manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u6	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Dmitry Sergiyovich Black, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u7	Please pass the word to Oleni Shulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u8	Olena Schuljak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, distinguished people's deputies, two years ago the first repairs of roads, bridges and social infrastructure were started in Ukraine under the Great Building Program. The time went by and the geography of Ukraine’s upgrades expanded, now extensive construction covers the network of regional airports, port and river infrastructure, railways, tourist and residential areas, cultural and sports objects. The Big Building programme has not just become an infrastructure project -- it's a story about a new modern-day-friendly Ukraine, how people are being given services in the New York CNAP, how parents are leading their children to school, how grandmas check their self-esteem in the infirmary. Over the past two years, "Big Building" has been an upgrade and a build-up of hundreds of social infrastructure objects. And it's not just the numbers behind them, it's the unification of the country and behind them -- and that's 130,000 pairs of hardworking hands, please look at the screen -- those are the people who work every day to make Big Construction happen in Ukraine. It's about simple designers, about builders, about jobs, about factory workers, about building materials, and a lot of other Ukrainians that are actually rebuilding our country. So to sum up this year, please let's thank people who literally turn our country into the kind of country that they want to live and work in. Look them in the eye, look at the screen where you can see these faces. These are Ukrainians who make our Ukraine a better place to live. And I'm asking us all to just applaud them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u10	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u11	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. I give the word to Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u12	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u13	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, may I have some quieter? This is about doctors from all over the country. Today, there was a real terror of the MOH and the NZU of the health doctor from the Mikolai region of Svetlana Fedorovy. Look at her Facebook page, thousands of people are thanking her today for saving her life. All of us have practically fallen for COVID, and all of our loved ones and relatives have fallen for COVID, and we need to understand that today the only thing that saves the country is our doctors. And today, M.O.S.A. is doing a background check on Svetlana Fedorovy of the Mikolai region for paying 300 percent of the doctors for the President's program, for using two coats of medical medicine that even the sponsors gave her, and for giving her a fine of 40,000 dollars. For what? We demand to intervene immediately and protect Svetlana Fedorov as the leading infectionist in the Mikolai region, as well as every doctor who performs his duties. We're not going to let the NSA shut down the hospital today -- the last thing this pandemic does. Today, we demand that the whole country engage and protect doctors who are fighting the pandemic today. You realize that vaccination does not completely protect everyone or even those who have been vaccinated is sick, and it can be even worse for COVID, and we are also treated by doctors. So today, from the whole society, and from the Mikolai region, from the Lviv region, from the Luhansk region, I urge everyone to intervene in the situation. I'm addressing the President, I'm asking the Prime Minister to look into the situation. We demand that you listen to Svetlan Fedorov from this rostrum, what is going on in the MoH, what corruption schemes are required of wages today, bribes for allegedly paying the doctors and paying the checkers. Dear colleagues, once again, we demand that we hear from this rostrum of the chief physician of the Mikolai district of Svetlana Fedorov, what happened today to infectious hospitals and how to deal with this problem today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u14	The next word should be given to Zarsky, but it conveys, as I understand it, to Taras Tarasenko. Yeah? Please, National Deputy Taras Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u15	Dear Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs! In the Ukrainian government, the question is how to make the national economy attractive to an investor. Many factors influence this. And one of them is the effective protection of intellectual property. Reform of this sphere is an important factor in the development of the innovation economy itself and creative industries. But unfortunately, we have a "but" again. Instead of reforming the sphere of intellectual property, several years of stagnation take place. In 2020 the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have all taken the right step with you: we have adopted legislation on the creation of the National Intellectual Property Authority. NOIV provided clear and accessible procedures for the protection of intellectual rights, and Ukrainians received services in this area under the single window principle, without bureaucratic pulls. We would avoid patent migration problems when patents are registered abroad, not in Ukraine. It's supposed to be a success story, but for now it's a story of a disgraceful defeat. No, Noah never worked at all. Instead, the intellectual property continues to be taken care of by the famous Ukrapatent. But this is also happening because of the inaction of individual departments of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. This state-owned enterprise now combines both management functions and commercial services. For years, the management of the Ukrapatent in the person of Andria Kudin has been a desperate resistance to intellectual property reform. Think about it, the head of the state-owned enterprise is judging the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for amending the statute of state-owned enterprises, thus blocking the introduction of these changes into the State Register. In the very same way, there are terrible changes that are taking place: about 60 professional workers have been released at the moment, the entire structure of the Patchpatent has been changed, the Appeals and Appellate Chamber has not been created, and the reform is still in the stagnation process. I hope that the change of direction of the Ministry of Economics will force the Ministry of Economics to do something completely different in the area of intellectual property. We demand that we urgently take all necessary steps to implement the Ukrainian Act on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u16	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Koval Olzi Volodymyrni, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u17	Good morning! Please give the word to Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u18	Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u19	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, respected journalists and those watching us today! Today, an important issue is raised in the walls of the Supreme Council. The IFO "Smart Politics" will address all the people's deputies who work in the walls of the Supreme Council in order to refer to the Constitutional Court according to that package of documents submitted to the Supreme Council, namely the interpretation of the 4th article of the Constitution on the only citizenship that is in our country. Now I'm not saying that this is definitely not a key issue that concerns our citizens with you. The key issues are tariffs, economics, energy security, security on the borders of our country, a powerful army and many other things that are precisely in the order of the Ukrainian people's day. I'm talking about a position that doesn't support more than 50 percent of our fellow citizens with you. I'm saying that the Constitution clearly defines the only citizenship in our country. I understand all the political and, above all, electoral technologies that are trying to apply today. But the state position should be state. If we are talking to you about Ukraine's only citizenship being Ukrainian citizenship, we should stick to it. These laws are now in conflict with the Constitution, and these laws today pose a problem for Ukraine. Because it is not clear, then, which nation will benefit from the work of the so - called bipolars. This will create problems for both our Association Agreement and our carlessness. I would like to remind everyone that the carlage is distributed to Ukrainian citizens, not to bipatrids or people with multiple citizenship. I would like to remind you that the acquisition, voluntary acquisition of another citizenship is the basis for the loss of Ukrainian citizenship. And I would also like to remind everyone that dual citizenship in the next parliamentary and presidential elections, along with the so-called electronic voting, is a direct way of falsifying the results of the elections and choosing our citizens with you. Let us not think in political terms, but let us think in public vision and work for the interests of the Ukrainian people, not in the interests of individual political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u20	The word is given to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u21	I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u22	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u23	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, yesterday you disgracefully failed the Law 5600 rulings, by law, which introduces total fiscalization for 4 million people in Ukraine, 4 million people who actually live in rural areas where there are no jobs and where there is virtually no opportunity to create jobs. The State once gave them the Personal Farms Act to feed their families so that they could work for themselves and actually be able to live in rural areas. So here, colleagues, the sacral figures. President Zelenski was voted 75 per cent in the second round and 56 less in the parliamentary elections. In the next election, you're going to get zero with this policy. One zero, fellows! Just think: Taxing 4 million people with a minimum tax obligation, and also a tax on their vegetables that are outside the populated area! Also yesterday, colleagues, you're in a warm room, and there were the FOPs, and you didn't want to put in order the daily laws that allow the FOPs to breathe, which allow the FOPs to provide us with services first, plan their activities, postpone the introduction of those RROs that you entered two years ago. Colleagues, opposition deputies gathered 152 signatures yesterday. We stood here and begged you to vote. But right now you can't hear, you can't hear people today who need help in government bodies. So, here we are, 152 deputies from the opposition and all of the Fatherland faction, we're asking you to hold an extra-curricular session on the issue of FOPs and lags, delaying the introduction of the accounting of these cashiers so that they can plan next year. Not planning on how to take an accountant and not planning on how to report, and not planning on what you suggested in Law 5600, where you want to hang nearly 2 million entrepreneurs by fiscalization. Fellows, think! Only then will there be a Parliament when you as a Parliament hear people, and only then will there be any dialogue when you as a majority hear opposition. Think about it!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u24	Instead of the national deputy of Chernyavsky Stepan Mikolaiovich, the word is given to Arsenija Pusharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u25	Arsenius Pusharenko, Servant of the People, Žitomirščina. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians, last year we all witnessed terrible fires in Žitomirščina, Kyiv region, Lugansk, where, unfortunately, we did not lose people who had died. And we all saw the conditions under which the foresters and the forest farm were, when the rangers on horseback circled their bicycles as they went out on the fire, sorry, in sports suits and slippers. These were the realities of the forest economy of Ukraine. After 1.5 years of these terrible fires, what is happening today in the forest? And the forest sector is being reformed and transformed today. During the summer, President Vladimir Zelenski signed the decree and began the reform of the forest economy, and today there is an optimisation of the forest holdings. But what is optimism? It's not about cutting down the forest, it's not about cutting down the forest, it's about the forest. These are officials, and those offices that have sucked in near the forest have discovered their woodchoppers and are working today and earning their pocket money in the woods. This phenomenon is being eradicated today. Today, the focus of reform is on the forest itself and on the forest itself. Today, forest infrastructure is being developed. I want to say that today they're being protected by the forests themselves, and the communities are passing them on to the balance sheet of the State Department. Next. Reduced taxes from 90 to 50 percent. And that, today, gives the industry a completely different material and technical security, a completely different forest protection today, forest fire protection, and a lot of things that the foresters couldn't afford before. Because there are forests, and there are black logging, and you don't have to confuse people who live in the forest for generations, and people who make money in the woods. I want to say that during the 11 months of this year, 7.9 billion dollars of taxes were paid by the forests of the State of Ukraine, more than 41 percent over the last year. There are 40,000,500 people in the field, and today the average wage is 16 thousand,500 dollars in Ukraine, which has grown by 6.5 thousand dollars a year. As part of President Green Country's programme, 60 million trees were planted in Ukraine together this year. And that's just the beginning. I want to say that the forest sector is being reformed today, it's transforming, and thanks to people like Yuri Bolochovec, who is the head of forestry, the person who has gone through all the trees in the forest agency today, there is the will and there is an understanding of how to change and save today, and to multiply the Ukrainian forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u26	Then we have the National Deputy Misaghin Yuri Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u27	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u28	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u29	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine!" I want to draw attention to the very important initiatives of the President and the political forces of the People's Servant Party, which have been announced, which have been implemented by the President of Ukraine. It's about a package of bills relating to dual citizenship that the President of Ukraine promised during a number of meetings that he demonstrated that he kept his promise in full compliance with his election thesis on the program. As for scarecrows that tell separate political forces and political opponents about dual citizenship. I would like to remind all citizens of Ukraine and experts, who, according to the current Ukrainian Citizenship Act, if a Ukrainian citizen acquires foreign citizenship in relations with Ukraine, he is recognized only as a Ukrainian citizen. If a foreigner acquires Ukrainian citizenship, he is recognized only as a Ukrainian citizen in his relations with Ukraine. What was the problem for those single-citizens to address the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the last five, four, two years in order for the Constitutional Court to verify these rules of the current Ukrainian Civil Code and to give a clear answer as to how it, this norm, corresponds to or does not comply with article 4 of the Constitution of Ukraine? When we talk about the fuses that the President has proposed in his package of bills, he has just offered to make it impossible for the cases that are currently in the Ukrainian government. That is, if a Ukrainian citizen has foreign citizenship at the same time, he will not be able to take office in the public service at the initiative of the President. I would like to remind you that today the only condition for taking office in the public service is the presence of Ukrainian citizenship. On the other hand, the president suggests that, since the issue is very sensitive in the area of security and defence, it cannot be in the civil service of a Ukrainian citizen who has foreign citizenship at the same time. And this is, of course, an initiative that deserves all the support. When we hear a lot of fears about this being another election technology involving foreigners who get Ukrainian citizenship in elections, it has nothing to do with reality, because Ukrainian citizenship is not automatically acquired. Ten men, or one hundred, or one thousand, must be given the appropriate number of Presidential decrees. Therefore, these legislative initiatives have nothing to do with the statements of the political opposition, which are echoing and echoing. They are designed only to involve people who feel united with the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u30	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Litvinov Alexandr Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Kamelchuk Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u32	Yuri Camelchuk And this is the final performance. Then let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u33	Good afternoon, dear friends! Yuri Kamelchuk, 124 constituency, Lviv district, Czervonograd, mining region, "Slut of the People" faction. A few things I'd like to hear today. I think you all know about them. But it is important to remember that it does not come out of sight. First. I will, of course, inform others to calm down those who are concerned about coal reserves. Yeah, it's not enough yet, it's not much, but it's getting bigger. At present, coal reserves are already over 500,000 tons. 200,000 tons on the road. In January, it is already clear that it will arrive at least one hundred more, two hundred thousand. And all we're going to need is another few months, probably about 400,000 tons. And that's also the question, coal is going to be on the way. Of course, it would not be such a question if the Ukrainian mines were all working as effectively as possible. History is not easy. But I'm going to go back to another story about where this coal burns, especially in the Burstine T.E.S. I would like to contact her owners and supervisors again. Because we still have a problem today, an environmental problem for all thermal power plants where there are no filters. But it is especially unpleasant now to say that there was an accident on Burstyn’s TES. The consequences of this accident are not closed until the end. And once again, the national MPs, my colleagues in the Ivano-Frankow region, and I am equally sure that many members of the environmental committee will require the fastest possible solution to the environmental situation, because people who live near thermal power plants should not breathe in black air and children should not play in black snow. The same situation is true of the Goodwill TES, which is located in my constituency in the region of Czervonograd. And in the last minute of this speech, I want to remind our government that even though we're working on one team, the debts to coal miners on the payroll are not closed yet. The centrifuge has been generating electricity for 700 million dollars, but it has closed only half of what it promised to be for miners. That's why I'm going to the Minister of Energy, the head of Centrenergo, the Prime Minister: solve this matter urgently. Sailors and my colleagues are demanding that we pay off the promised funds as quickly as possible so that we don't go back to the question of debt, and that the price of coal is always fair. But what now is the price, if it had been introduced six months ago, at this point, would not have been on the payroll anymore. And finally, the Hope Mine. As always, the city of Sosniuka is looking forward to 36 million debt closings on wages. Let's make sure the miners get their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. The speaking time is over. But before we moved on to the subject, a statement came from two factions with a break, with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Irina Volodymyr the Hero. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u35	Dear Ukrainians, in 2019, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, thanks to President Green's initiative and leadership. President Dustenka was then established in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in reality. (for Zelenski, we will mention more), but thanks to President Prashenko's leadership, she fixed a course for the EU and NATO in the Ukrainian Constitution. And President Zelensky, who came, and quite justly, on the gas, "what a difference," admitted today, admitted that the EU and NATO course was a strategic course. True, he does not do anything about it. In fact, it is very important in the Constitution to establish a strategic course for the EU and NATO under the leadership of President Poshenko today, who also admitted Zelenski, that in the Constitution of Ukraine we establish a citizenship that will become possible for citizens who have the same citizenship of NATO and EU countries, with one exception: except perhaps those countries have or will have territorial claims to Ukraine. In fact, this is where the debate on the fraud of President Zelensky, who became President Zelenski in 2019 and who is now trying, through a populist and fraudulent way, to bring double citizenship through legislation despite constitutional norms, without even establishing the possibility of blocking dual citizenship for the new Hogilashvili, who are citizens of the Russian Federation or satellite countries, such as Belarus. And if you'll excuse me, you and I have to put an end to this. "European solidarity" wants to thank the Ukrainian diaspora, primarily from the United States, Canada, from the EU and NATO countries, who have been sincerely supporting Ukraine for 30 years, lobbying Ukraine in the international arena, providing us with technical, humanitarian, intellectual assistance. And it's obvious that the Ukrainian diaspora is waiting for this double citizenship bill, but not the populist one, not the one that is then through the Constitutional Court, because of Greensky's unprofessional activity, can be cancelled, because of the fastening in the Constitution. Therefore, for the initiatives of the fifth President of Ukraine, Prashenko "European Solidarity" prepares a submission to the Constitutional Court and begins to collect signatures, and we ask for signatures from all responsible national deputies to be signed in the Constitution of Ukraine to secure the possibility of dual citizenship for Ukrainian citizens who also have EU and NATO citizenship, because this rule is already in the Ukrainian Constitution. And so we also support the submission to the Constitutional Court of fellow members of the People's Deputies, as already discussed in this rostrum today, of an appeal to the Constitutional Court regarding the unconstitutionality of the populist, absolutely lying, as does all that Zelensky, who has unfortunately become President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u36	It's a good word. I'm sorry, we've got another statement coming up with a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Julius Volodymyr of Timoshenko. And then we move on to the agenda. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address all the members of the Supreme Council right now. You know, yesterday and today, the issue of FOPs is very acutely raised -- it's physical entrepreneurs, micro-entrepreneurs, who, from January 1st, essentially end up with a normal system of state support that they had for many, many, many years, that allowed self-employed people to create their jobs, feed their families, and ensure their existence. I want to remind you once again that every country is stable when there are between 60 and 70 percent of the people who represent the middle class. These are those on whom the well-being of every nation is maintained. You can't have a new power that came and that came through the middle-class voices to essentially destroy this power, to bury the middle-class and small micro-entrepreneurs, the FOPs, the natural persons entrepreneurs. I want to remind you that they have been under the Supreme Council for many months now, but since January 1st, the day comes when their normal lives and their work end with the majority vote. And that's why we insist. We, together with the "For the Future" faction and with all the other factions, certainly, apart from the faction of power, have gathered all the necessary signatures for tomorrow, Thursday, to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council and to vote on those bills that are needed by the natural persons entrepreneurs, the FOPs, so that their business and their families will not cease to be normal from January 1st. I'm talking to every deputy in the Supreme Council right now. I want you to imagine what the lives of your families might look like if, as of January 1, you were deprived of all means of existence and declared reform. I want to ask every deputy who has a conscience to be present in the Chamber on Thursday at an extraordinary session that will take place to vote and restore justice, to return to small entrepreneurs what they were tens of years old, and only with your coming to power, most of them, you have virtually deprived them of their ability to work and the ability to live in Ukraine. We'll keep an eye on it and tell them who was in the hall, who wasn't, who wasn't. Let's protect the little ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you, and we are moving on to their consideration. The first issue is the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Responsibility in Urban Activities (project number 5877). Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please take your seats, dear colleagues. I'm asking you a question, consideration of the short procedure of Bill 5877. Please vote. [[10:44:57]] For 216 Decision taken. I invite Ukrainian national deputy Schuljak Olen Aleksyevna. Please, Olena Alexiyevno.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! As you know, there is a city reform in Ukraine today. And together with those from the ministries, with an expert environment, market participants, we're trying to destroy such concepts as DABI, bribe officials and construction schemes forever. Because all of this has already exhausted our country and has led to the lack of adequate infrastructure in cities, tens of thousands of fraudulent investors in housing, the destruction of cultural heritage objects, illegal cemeteries, and other shameful things. With total disregard for the laws, treaties and irresponsibility that have taken place in the Ukrainian construction sector in the last decade, we now want to establish a literate state regulation in construction. Bills 5655 and the bill 5877 are the basic legislative initiative for the reform of the city. What do we propose? We want to introduce very harsh but just measures, such as attracting offenders to criminal responsibility. In this document, we have substantially complemented the standards of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in part of the arbitrary occupation of the land and of the construction of ourselves. Yes, there is increased responsibility for the illegal seizure of land of historical and cultural purposes, for the arbitrary construction that violates the purpose of the land assignment, and so on. Bill 5877 also provides for the temporary arrest of illegal buildings. We realize that this standard is very controversial, so between the first and the second readings, we will conduct extensive consultations and work with lawyers. And now, dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill in the first reading in order to put an end to illegal construction in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u40	Thank you. I would like to invite a co-rapporteur, deputy head of the Committee on the Protection of the Law, Maxim Vasilovich Pavluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u41	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, draft law registration number 5877 has been developed to balance the deregulation measures envisaged in the basic bill registration number 5655, which we have already adopted in the first reading. This bill enhances the efficiency of the institution of responsibility for urban delinquency. For the purpose of implementing the stated objective, amendments are proposed, including the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which changes the composition of a number of offences: increased fines for urban delinquency are being imposed; an increase in the number of entities that may be subject to administrative entanglement; and the issue of ensuring the enforcement of the prescriptions of the controlling authorities regarding self - construction facilities is being addressed by temporary arrest of illegal construction objects. The Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for the possibility of criminal responsibility of relevant urban actors for crimes in the field. Criminal responsibility for self-building, including on particularly valuable lands, in security zones, sanitary areas, sanitary areas and others, is being increased. The committee's decision. The Committee, following the provisions of part three of article 93, paragraph 1 of part one of article 111, paragraph 1 of part one of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Responsibility in Urban Activities (Registration No. 5877) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Also ask the Head of the Supreme Council to announce to the plenary during the consideration of the bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules on the need for proposals and amendments to correct, clarify, correct errors and other inconsistencies and contradictions in the text of the bill and its structural parts.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Motovilovic Andriy Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Oleni Shulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u44	Olena Schuljak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u45	My fellow Members, I appeal once again to all factions, to all the MPs to support Bill 5877 in the first reading, because today the illegal constructions and irresponsibility of officials who are not seeing what is happening in our cities, and the builders, who are in grave breach of building legislation, are still building those lands, those green zones, those historic zones that cannot be forgotten without any responsibility. Yes, this bill introduces very severe measures, but without increased criminal and administrative responsibility, we will never be able to defeat the building chaos that is taking place especially in large cities. We're living with very incomplete urban documentation. Our cities are transformed into concrete ghettos. So once again, I invite all the national MPs to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u46	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Pole Vladislav. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u47	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the bill that we are talking about today and which will be voted on today is extremely important. Important even from the point of view that we have seen quite recently large and violent protests of tens of thousands throughout the country of deceived citizens who have entrusted their money to builders or to those who have promised to build housing will give them apartments. Instead, they deceived people, did not do what they promised, and accordingly it is a great disaster and tragedy for many Ukrainian families. So from the point of view of order in the area of construction, the work of construction companies is important. He strengthens the responsibility of those officials, those organizations that are to do an extremely useful and important work, but instead create only problems for our Ukrainians. At the same time, I would like to point out that only by increasing the penalties and penalties will we not achieve the ultimate goal. It is a serious restructuring of the activities of the entities responsible for the construction, preparation of all necessary technical documentation, production of projects, and so forth. Therefore, this bill is to be adopted in a complex with a number of others who deal with the issue as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u48	The word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, surely this bill is important, and the problem of the city is, I think anyone can see when they go to or leave the Supreme Council. I think it's a problem not just in Kiev, but in every city that has a large number of our citizens. As far as Kiev is concerned, I would like to tell you a situation that recently took place in the Kiev Council, where the head of our faction in Kiev, Gregory Malenko, brought out a bill that was supported to give an additional 6 billion from the builders to Kiev's budget. And you have no idea at what speed, in the direct sense of the turbine, the brows of the builders immediately lifted that amendment. This is an example of what we really need to fight. As far as the bill is concerned, it is really important. And there are a lot of comments to him, both from my colleague Andrew Osadchuk and other colleagues, and even from the law. But we had a very fruitful vote and hopefully an effective conversation with the drafters. And those assurances that these inaccuracies, shortcomings and some legal outright errors will be corrected to the second reading, I think enough to support such an important initiative in the first reading. That's why we vote in favour, and I ask everyone to support this bill, and the committee to work on it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u50	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mamyan Suto Choloevich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Mother Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u52	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! "The Opposition Platform for Life," Mama. I want to draw attention to this bill, which is derived from Bill 5655. So all the speakers talked about these things and about the need to make a difference. In fact, something needs to be changed in the building, namely, the rules of the game that will be transparent: (a) for the builder; for the person who bought the building and had the guarantee to receive the service at the time promised by the builder, the object for which it paid the cost. If she didn't pay, there must be responsibility. For the time being, I do not think that there is anyone in the room who will not agree that if a person has failed to fulfill some of his or her obligations without sound reasons, they should be held accountable. This bill tells us about a new approach to responsibility under Bill 5655 and points to increased responsibility for: (a) illegal forgetfulness. If anyone is considered to be building things everywhere without proper permission, we must say that we are doing everything that is allowed and we do not want to answer. We will support this bill, but between the first and the second readings we will align the situation between that Bill 5655. And I ask everyone to support, given that the new conditions will be open, transparent, for building, and the second story, and the responsibility of this bill for building and creating these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have a request from Honcharenko Alexei and Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, well, he's asking to be given the right to speak. To begin with, Honcharenko was the first to ask him to give the floor. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko. Then Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. I'm sorry, it's just here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u55	Thank you. Alexei Honcharenko "European Solidarity". The "European Solidarity" faction fully supports the increased responsibility for violations of the laws on construction, violation and destruction of our cities. However, unfortunately, this law is very imperfect, there is, for example, the arrest of property without a court order, it is unacceptable, it has to be worked out. But if we're talking about construction, I'd say today we've been given these books: "Great construction. Faces." In fact, here's the face of the real Ukrainians: John Todorenko, Alexander Laguta, Dmitri Kolomiets, whom we can all be proud of as workers. But what does the authorities do? She's trying to hide her faces in these faces of people who work for Ukraine, behind these faces, you know, like Gogilaschvili said, "bread" (I'm a little bit better). We know the real face of this power, and we don't have to hide ourselves from people. And you probably shouldn't have printed Vladimir Zelensky here four times.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u56	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, please the faction "The Fatherland. And then we go to the vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u57	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, Your Honor, the Fatherland team, for increasing responsibility for illegal construction, it is clear. But this bill is null and void from a legal point of view, and there are at least two fuses that need to be taken to the second reading. The first is criminalized and strengthens the administrative responsibility of individuals, such as architects or designers, and the land is usually legal. And the next. It gives us the right to arrest the newly created Chamber without trial. We are definitely against it because there is a case law in the state that only a court can place an arrest on property. Take away these two indiscretions, and in the second reading, the Motherland team will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please prepare yourself for making your decision, Your Honor. I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee, that the proposed clarifications be taken into account when preparing for second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Strengthening Responsibility in Urban Activities (project 5877). Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:00:57]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is our next question. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 20, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, articles 4.5 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Broadcasting Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is appointed to serve as half of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio. The National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is composed of 8 persons, four of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At present, three positions of National Council members remain vacant. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider and decide on 13 candidates for 3 vacancies. The right materials are given to you. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Broadcasting and the proposals of the Professional Committee are proposed the following order of action. A report by the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy in 10 minutes. People's MPs' questions to the reporter are up to nine minutes. Talks from MP factions and groups for up to 21 minutes. Presentations by Ukrainian national deputies, up to 9 minutes. Conducting the rating vote in alphabetical order by each candidate separately. Following the completion of the rating vote, a vote shall be taken on the appointment of the members of the National Council for each candidate separately in the sequence determined by the rating vote. In the event that all vacant positions of the National Council are filled, the matter is discontinued. There's no objection. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Mikiti Ruslanovich Poturayev. The show's up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues and a distinguished presidency, on October 31, 2019, the Supreme Council adopted a decree on the dismissal of members of the National Council of Ukraine from television and radio broadcasting, Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrovna, Ilyashenka Aleksandra Borisovich, Cherniša Oleg Mikolaiovich, in connection with the conclusion of the 5-year term for their credentials. However, the freed members continued to serve as new members. This order is foreseen in part three of article 5 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio. Since the process of rotation of members of the National Council has been delayed for objective reasons in time, it should be recalled that the Humanities and Information Policy Committee, according to the legislative requirements of November 2, 2019, published an announcement in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and the official web portal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the selection of candidates for three vacant posts of the National Council by the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the time of the election, the order for the nomination of candidates for the National Council was defined in part two of article 5 of the National Council Act, which was in force until July 21, 2021. At that time, the law did not restrict the right to apply for the number of candidates they recommended. The Committee secretariat had 15 candidates in the deadline set by law for the nomination of 21 days. In particular, the parliamentary faction of the political party, "Slut of the People", recommended two candidates: Alexander Božkova and Olga Gerasimük. The deputy faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" also submitted two nominations: Igor Lotashevski and Lavrentia Malazonia. Other MP factions and groups did not exercise that right. The Citizens' Association "The All-Ukrainian Association of Community Speech" recommended seven candidates, two candidates submitted by the National Association of Journalists of Ukraine, one candidate submitted by the National Association of Photo Artists of Ukraine and the International NGO "European Media Platform". The secretariat of the committee referred them to the Office of Personnel of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was then authorized to organize a special inspection, as soon as all the documents provided for by the law had arrived. On March 16, 2020, the Office of Human Resources Management of the Supreme Council handed over help to the committee on the results of a special examination for each candidate. In time, unfortunately, this coincided with the beginning of the restrictions on preventing the spread of COVID-19's acute respiratory disease. These restrictions have also been extended to competitions. Thus, for objective reasons, the Committee and the Supreme Council were unable to complete the selection process in time and to appoint members of the National Council to vacant positions. In addition, on June 17, 2021, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Ensuring Independence of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting. Then, article 7 of the National Council Act, which introduced the requirements for members of the National Council, received a new edition. Part two of chapter III of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Ensuring Independence of the National Council provides that the selection of candidates for membership (members) of the National Council, declared to be effective by this Act, shall take account of all submitted candidates. At the time of entry into force of the statutory guidance on the results of the special inspection, the candidates became invalid. A number of other documents were needed. In view of this, in July 2021, the committee wrote to each candidate for the National Council, informing them of the need to update the documents to be examined and to give written consent to carry out a special inspection. The committee received updated documents from 13 out of 15 candidates. Two candidates, Alexander Božkov and Olga Hmaruk, did not provide updated documents, did not pass a special examination, and did not participate in the selection. On October 28, this year, a committee received from the Department of Prevention of Corruption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine original evidence of the results of a special examination of each candidate. Copies of this help are given to you. All 13 candidates for the special examination are admitted to vacant seats of members of the National Council. In the established terms of the committee, within the limits of powers, it checked the qualifications of the candidates as set out in article 7 of the National Council Act on the basis of information on the results of the special examination, the educational documents, the mandatory five-year service in the field of journalism, law, broadcasting, electronic communications; documents on the language of the State according to the level determined by the National Commission of Public Language Standards. The members of the committee were identified by open ballot by each candidate. In summary, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be included in the list for the conduct of the rating vote and on the basis of its vote on the appointment of three vacant seats of members of the National Council. The rating vote is proposed for 13 candidates. 12 of them are present today in the guest room of the session hall. I'm sorry, there were 12 of them when the report was being prepared. I got word that we have 11 candidates in our guest bed today. Thus, the committee recommends that the candidature be considered: Bourmagina Alexandra Alexandrovitch, Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrovna, Glushchenka Aleksandra Leonidovich, Eliferova Alexandra Borisovich, Ilyashenka Alexandra Borisovich, Kifluka Romana Mikolajovich, Kulisch Olga Volodymyrovny, Lachna Evgen Leonidovich, Lotashevsky Igor Aleksandrovitch, Malazonia Lavrentija Teimuzovich, Paslavski Igor Ivanovic, Cervakovo Olga Valeriovni and Cherniša Oleg Mikolaajovich. Another little note. The committee approved the decision to recommend the nomination of Igor Paslavski on the condition that documents that indicated the use of the national language should be given up to the day of consideration in accordance with the legal level. Mr. Paslavski has given the appropriate certificate, so there are no obstacles to considering his candidacy among others. Dear colleagues, additional documents of candidates are provided for you under article 205 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would add that you know that I myself have worked on the National Council for Television and Radio, and I want to mark the high level of all the candidates that we are looking at today and we will vote. If I had worked on the National Council today, I would have worked with each of the colleagues who participated in the competition. This is evidence of the high level of our experts who claim to work at the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. All right, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the reporter. This takes up to nine minutes. Please sign in, Your Honor. The word is given to the National Deputy of Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u61	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I give the word to Pauline Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u62	Yuri Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u63	Mr. President, in fact, this competition that was going on to replace the three vacant posts from the Supreme Council was record-breaking, so-called a concern from the new authorities, when they did their best not to change the members of the National Council, and during these two years they actually turned the National Council into a non-protection body, not an aid to the radio organizations, but a penal authority, an authority that made decisions that made it impossible to work full-time in Ukraine of independent media. Sir, in voting and supporting those or other candidates, did you think of the decisions that they had adopted while serving as members of the National Council? And can you say that these people really stand in the defense of freedom of speech and the work of independent means of mass.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u64	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, we voted with you on the committee, and I would like to say that, once again, I am very pleased with all the candidates who are presented both by the factions in the Supreme Council and by the public organizations. And despite our political differences, I know the people who are represented by your faction, I know them as professionals, professionals in my business, convinced that whoever today the Supreme Council does not choose to be part of the National Council, these people will work according to legislation exclusively and will be impartial.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u65	Thank you. The word is "Alexia Alexiovich Hotcharenko", the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u66	Please pass the word to a former journalist, my colleague, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u67	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u68	Mr. Poturayev, I will not ask you how you feel about laws being copied by individuals, especially under individual members of the National Council on Television and Radio as it has been done. I'm not even going to ask you how you appreciate the level of implementation of language legislation and the work of the Nakrada on this issue, which simply and simply doesn't do this work and the proper monitoring doesn't lead, and then you reassign the same members of the Nakrada. Let me ask you a little bit about something else. How do you feel about the murder of information reform, the creation of a propaganda channel, the Dom channel, which in Russian for billions of dollars now wants to expand into a universal programming service with violations, gross violations of the Rules? So how do you feel about creating propaganda according to the Russian example, thank God, so far in your committee through the Human Rights Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u69	I will, Mrs. Victoria, try to answer all your questions briefly. First. I believe that we as the Council have not changed anything in legislation under specific individuals. I think that the age limit is an ajism in the case of members of the National Council, and there is no such bullion in civilized European countries in the opposite direction. As far as linguistic monitoring is concerned, the National Council, as far as I know, is conscientiously fulfilling its obligations. As for the collegiates in the legislation that we have warned about, they need to be corrected. We just don't have a consensus right now, especially with your faction, on how to fix the existing colonies. As for the Home Channel, I can't tell you anything because we don't have any of those suggestions on changing the status of the House Channel. SO IF I had, perhaps, an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u70	The word is given to Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u71	Please pass the word to the journalist and to our colleague Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u72	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u73	Dear journalists, I am very ashamed of today’s composition of the National Council, which was sold for its loyalty to the Bank yesterday’s profession and career. And to you, Mr. Poturaev, I have a few questions. First. How do you feel about the fact that today's Nakrad, who sold her professionalism for Bank's loyalty, did not react in any way, for example, to the inclusion on the air of some of the TV channels of the so-called ORDLO/ORLO fighters? And the second. Please comment on the failure by the President of the Green Court to immediately amend his criminal order, by which he unlawfully dismissed Vladimir Gorkovenko from his office of representative in Nacrad. And are you going to be like the law-abiding Ukrainian that we know of, and the man who respects Ukrainian legislation, now turn to Zelensky, who motivated his failure to commit Gorkovenko, not to renew him at work, because there are no vacancies in Nacrad, and, for example, in the Constitutional Court, he appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. As a person who has been released from the National Council for Television and Broadcasting in his own time by the strange alliance of our Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party, I can tell you that unfortunately, legislation foresees the possibility of rotating on the part of any of the target subjects, both on the part of the Supreme Council and on the part of the President. "Unfortunately" when I say, I think that rotation is the right thing to do, and the President has to have that right, and we have to have that right with you. And "sadly" I say because there are really no clear criteria. But in the case of the decision of the President of the Green Criteria, I think they were available and obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u75	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimenko Yulia Leonidini, the "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u76	Klimenko, "Justice." Dear Mr. Poturaev, I have a question. Right now we're assigning four members of the Supreme Council and four representatives will be appointed by the President's Office. We understand that the Supreme Council, the majority, will determine the majority, the ruling party, and there will be no opposition. Please tell me, don't you actually think of this Nakrad as the majority of the ruling party and actually the end of freedom of speech? And also, please tell me, do you think Nakradya's work is effective because the de facto sanctions on separatist channels were imposed by the PNDP rather than by the Nakrad? In 12 months, no complaints of animosity and separatism may be addressed in some television channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u77	Thank you. First. The National Council of Ukraine, within existing legislation, is doing everything in its power to protect Ukrainian information and media. The problem is that legislation does not enable effective protection of the interests of national security in the media. There are more than a dozen lawsuits in the courts that have been pending for years, and the National Council can't get them because the courts are asking, where is the legislation where there are those threats against which you claim? And that's why it brings us, dear fellows, to the point of need calmly, without emotion and without manipulation, to consider next year's Media Bill, which will finally settle all these issues for everyone without excluding the media in Ukraine. As far as the threat to freedom of speech is concerned, I can't see, because from our faction, one person, from the Faction of the FRA, two people, everything else, from the public. And as a hall, we can be absolutely calm about who we will support. They're more than public candidates, and they're very worthy. In the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u78	Thank you. And the final question is, we have 1 minute left. Vitrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u79	Please pass Alexia to the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u80	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u81	Alexei Hotcharenko. Mr. Mikita, I have a question for you. You said it was good for the public and so on, but we're only now choosing three members of the National Council. And your press secretary, Mrs. Paliychuk, told society that you decided to choose three people — Olga Gerasimük, Alexander Burmagin, and Oleg Chernish. Does it not seem to you that if these three people are chosen, it will mean that you have not given a vote of opposition that only representatives supported by the "Serve of the People" have left the Ukrainian Parliament? That's not right. You're a majority, you have a majority in Parliament, no one's arguing about it, but the opposition here is, too, in favour of millions of people. And do we not deserve to be able to present at least one person in the Nakrad who will look for what's going on, you know, at the House and at the Rada and other places that are extremely important? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u82	Mr. Alexia, I would like to remind you that in my report I pointed out that only two factions in Parliament took advantage of the right to nominate candidates. It's our faction and the faction of the OPCW. That's why it's a question of why you didn't ask. My position in person, Mr. Alexia, is that we should be deprived of all factions and groups, of the right to raise the right to really only the public to put forward candidates, and we would be here in the Council to identify who we support from those who are offered the public. I believe that this would be the next step towards strengthening the independence of the appointment of members of the National Council. Let us unite all the halls together and make changes so that there are really no such issues as yours now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u83	Thank you, Mikito Ruslanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the MP factions and groups, and this will take up to 21 minutes. Please log in. The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u84	Please pass the word "Constankevic".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u85	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u86	Irina Konstanovic, Party for the Future. Ladies and gentlemen, our MPs will ask everyone to take a closer look at the election of the National Radio and Television Council members, as this is a matter of Ukrainian information security. And we have pointed out this not once during the meeting of the committee of profile, and from the high court of the Supreme Council. We've carefully and thoroughly analyzed both biographies and the professional experience of the candidates to the Nacrada, and we've identified ourselves, and the main criterion that we're going to use is professionalism and experience in the field of media work. So given the importance of this problem, we urge them to be guided not by party, not by ideological reasoning, but by these criteria, as demonstrated by our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u87	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Koleboshin Sergey Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u88	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Eugenia Kravczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u89	Eugenia Mikhailna Kravchuk, please "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, therefore, we elect members to the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. What is this organ, and why do we say from the rostrum of the Supreme Council that it is so important? The answer is simple: It is a media regulator whose role is enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. As there can be no football match without a referee, there can be no functioning, no normal functioning of a media event without those who will follow the rules of the game to all participants, especially in our circumstances, when the eighth year is the hybrid war with the Russian Federation, including the information attacks that we as a state must reflect. Very often we are attacked from within, spreading misinformation. Because of COVID, unfortunately, we've really continued this competition longer than we'd like, and we're finally voting and appointing three members of the Nacrad. Today, we have candidates, most of whom have been offered by civil society itself, and it is the social organizations that are 10 candidates, and only three candidates from factions. Among the candidates who are here, only one represents the "Serial of the People" faction. Why so? Because we believe that the regulator should be independent, work democratically in a democratic society, as the law requires. We call on all colleagues to take responsibility for voting and consideration, to be guided by the professionalism of the candidates and their experience. We support such candidates. This is Olga Volodymyrovna Gerasimük, who has been promoted by our "Serial of the People" faction, is a well-known media man, a professional, a career in the media field for over 40 years. Ms. Gerasimük has been the head of this regulator since April 2020 and is a representative of Ukraine at the Governing Committee of the Council of Europe on Media and Information Society. We also support worthy candidates from public organizations. This is Alexander Alexander Burmagin, a well-known media lawyer, a well-known expert, executive director of the Human Rights Platform. He has spent 20 years in legal practice in the field of media and represents media in national courts and in the European Court of Human Rights. As well as Oleg Mikolaiovich Czerniša, who since April 22, 2020, is the deputy head of Nacrada. He was responsible for protecting the information space, building the state digital television network MX-7. The full work of the governor of the National Council for Television and Radio is dependent on the information security of every citizen and person living in Kiev and of those living in the smallest village in the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u91	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u93	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u94	Honorary colleagues, according to the law, the main task of the National Council is to monitor compliance with the laws in the field of television broadcasting, and the key principles of its activity are legality, independence, and objectivity. But today’s authorities have turned this body into a manual tool for serving their own interests and adhering to lawlessness. What objectivity can be discussed when five out of eight members of the National Council are graduates from the Colombian TV channels or from the 95 Quarter? What is the legality of having three of the four members of the Nakrad from Parliament instead of the five years provided for by the Constitution in office for the eighth year? In 2020, Nakrad’s head was chosen as the person whose term of office expired in 2019. That's the kind of hand-held Nacradu, and it takes power to chase independent television channels like espresso and Primium. It's this hand-held Nacrad who is "breathing" the violation of the Language Act, that they are demonstratively allowing oligarchic television channels to show movies and shows in Russian, contrary to the law. It is this Nakrad who refuses to give warnings about movies with Russian actors from the list of people who are at risk. It is this Nacrad that allows President Greene to destroy innovation with impunity by creating a Russian-speaking propaganda channel called House. Does Nakrad not know that the House is virtually not in occupied territory, that the authorities are illegally turning it into a tool of zombies throughout the country, a tool of public propaganda itself? To spin the private channels, the Palchevsky show, to sing the defirams of Zelenski and to water the dirty opposition, that's what our money goes for? And all of this is at the expense of the budget, which in a year the House spent almost a billion! In chronic underfunding of social television, a social language. Doesn't Nazrad see that the "Council" channel is being transformed into another pillar of power propaganda? "European Solidarity" will not vote for the people responsible for this destructive policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u95	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u96	Please hand over Sergio Ivanovich Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u97	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, when a state is unable to fill vacant seats in a constitutional body for two years, it is a disgrace to the whole state. Whether COVID, not COVID, is objective or subjective, it is indeed a disgrace. I'm not saying that from the point of view of the right of decision, which was approved, including the members who had been exercising their powers for two years after their completion, it was at least a question from a legal point of view. Secondly, I agree with my colleagues, which is sufficiently arbitrary, to put it mildly, that the National Council on Television and Broadcasting performed its functions, including the main functions of overseeing the enforcement of legislation. And really, if she were to carry out her duties conscientiously, there would not be many questions as to how legal or illegal the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council are. Because, in fact, she replaced her decisions with what the Nakrad was supposed to do. That's a second. Third. What's happening with the information space is actually a disgrace, and it's not just the National Council for Television and Radio. I agree with what is incomprehensible, unacceptable, and, to me, illegally, that the channel that was created on the basis of the innovator, which was allowed to work solely in Russian to contribute to the occupation and reintegration, actually turned into a state-wide Russian-speaking channel, which, for God's sake, I know what it means to make a decision through the Supreme Council to enter into a so-called free package, i.e. to give consumers content free of charge. I'm talking about the Home Channel. Excuse me, but if the talk show with Palchevsky, the series "The Coming Back in the Morning" or the humorous show "Smart" is the craziest steps towards reintegration, then it's easier to appoint Ana Lorak as the Minister of Culture, and Medvedchuk as the Minister of Defence, it'll be an even more powerful step towards reintegration and depopulation. So no matter what the vote is today, I hope that today's discussion is an unnecessary reminder to the members of the Nakrad that they are not a department of the Bank, but an independent constitutional body, a regulatory body with important functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u99	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Koltunović Alexandro Sergiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u100	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u101	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, it took more than two years for the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call to carry out its constitutional duty and to start considering the assignment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as members of the National Council for Television and Radio. And what did Ukraine expect? Ukraine was waiting for new faces. What are they talking about in the towers? That we will see again Mr. Chernish, especially the person now considered an enemy of freedom of speech and journalism, Ms. Olga Gerasimük. You know, in my time, I had the honor and opportunity, when she was still a real journalist, to talk to her in Taboo-free. I'm ready to talk in front of my eyes, protecting the rights of our journalists. The destruction of journalism and freedom of speech is what Mrs. Gerasimük, whom you will appoint today, remembers. And I have a logical question. When she was assigned to Dusty, Yacenouk, we saw this, couldn't you find new faces and choose the old ones for the pain? Therefore, those that are already under way are being investigated for robbing 100 million dollars of the budget. We do not know how it ended or whether it ended at all. And when people under such pressure destroy journalism by performing the demands of authority, I want to say that 171 articles have not been canceled and responsibility for it will surely come. Dear "ministers of the people," I'd like to offer you a sincere offer. If you support Dusty and Yatzenyuk and their candidates, what's left of you is to join the Peter Dusty Faction. It's going to be honest, frankly, and you could say, yes, you voted for Zelensky, but you got Dusty, half of it, at least exactly. Therefore, honourable colleagues, who will now vote in favour of those who destroy freedom of speech, for those who have been working in Nacrad for about eight years, have passed their mandate, who will be pressured against journalists, will be pressured against freedom of speech. And this isn't just the position of the Opposition Platform for Life. This is the position of the competent authorized bodies of the United Nations, the OSCE, journalists without borders, Freedom House, who today say that freedom of speech is being destroyed in Ukraine. And by supporting these very candidatures that we're all told of, you're going to confirm it and do it with your own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished our discussions with the factions. There was a discussion left from the National Deputies. I'd like to sign up for a statement from the National Deputies, which takes up to nine minutes. And then we go to the vote. We'll vote in nine minutes. Please sign in. The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of "The Opposition Platform." ".. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. I'm sorry, I had a little bit of a break for a second. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u104	Please give it to Paulie Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u105	Please, Yuri Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies, Mr. Head, we are considering and will make an extremely important decision today in the Supreme Council, because it is extremely important that the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, the body on which television and radio organizations work, how the Ukrainian information field is protected, how Ukrainian citizens are protected from obtaining true, operational, objective information. And it is these important powers that are in the National Council for Television and Radio. And unfortunately, every authority always sees in the Nakrad, not a body that protects people, but a body that will perform a repressive function in relation to those media that don't like the authorities, who tell the truth, who try to give more information to a citizen, so that he feels protected and can make decisions, especially during the electoral campaign. Unfortunately, the situation over the last two years has been shameful in the activities of the National Council on Television and Radio. There was no such precedent when independent television and radio organizations were closed in Ukraine. Convinced, it will be a dark disgraceful stain on the activities of the Nakrad, those decisions that have been adopted, not by them, but by the Council of National Security and Defence, the decision on the actual destruction of the most trusted, most honest information channels that were "112", NewsOne, ZIK. And unfortunately, the National Council has done nothing here to protect, not just the channels, but the journalistic groups, but to protect the right of Ukrainian citizens to receive objective and honest, impartial information, information that would not be presented under the rule of law, but that would be based on the work of journalists and on the needs of Ukrainian citizens. That's why today, when it comes to decisions, first of all, we need to make sure that the new members of the National Council, who will represent the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the highest legislative body, are as impartial as possible, are as independent as possible, can adopt decisions that comply with the Constitution, the law, those decisions that protect the right of Ukrainian citizens to information and protect Ukrainian information space. "The opposition platform for life" calls for voting for candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u107	The word is given to Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u108	Please give the floor to Deputy Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u109	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u110	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, it is no less surprising to see among the candidates new old faces, all those to whom you were sentenced in 2019. What's even more surprising to me is the fact that you're going to be supporting new old faces today. And I want to remind you what's been going on over the last few years, why it's been so bad before 2019, why we've been against it. Think of illegal tests, constants, TV channels, any deliberate examples, anything. TV NewsOne, TV 112, TV station ZIK -- out-of-plan tests, out-planned again, pre-planned TV checks. Different content, any comments as to the guests who come to the television channels. This isn't even about editorial politics, it's about guests and representatives of different political parties. All these approaches, they were solely politically motivated and had nothing to do with independent regulation of the relevant market. So in our view, choosing new old faces is criminal, and from this point of view it is more like pressure on freedom of speech than regulating this process inside the country. We have offered our own candidates, who will be independent, in our view, and will influence independent politics in the field of television and radio talk within the country. And we warn you not to support or repeat the steps that your predecessors have taken, the previous authorities. Listen to what my colleague Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich said. These are the forerunners who have been on the Board for eight years on television and radio talk, who are illegally involved in both the television and the media, and so on. The second moment is very important. And where was Nacradu when independent information channels were shut down when Sharya's internet releases were closed. No, Page.ua? Can't you see what's going on? Where is the regulator’s position on these important issues? Why is the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the United Nations, other international institutions, assessing and condemning these actions, and we do not have any position of appropriate regulator on the illegal imposition of sanctions on legal persons within the country in an unconstitutional way? So in our view, we need to maintain and make things impossible for the future, and we need to choose new faces rather than go back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u111	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, and this will be the final performance, "Serve of the People," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Fedyanek Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u113	Alexander Fedienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Head, dear colleagues! Alexander Fedienko, faction of the political party "Serial of the People." Dear colleagues, Ukraine should have this body. Recently, my colleagues and I returned from areas where there was virtually no war. These are frontal areas bordering temporarily occupied areas, Lugansk and Donetsk regions. Unfortunately, there is virtually no television in those areas, my friends. That's why, personally, me and my colleagues are calling on both the National Council and those representatives to the National Council that we're going to vote on today, and personally I'm going to support these candidates, so that they can intervene in that situation and figure out why our television isn't in that area, why our televisions aren't watching our citizens in that area. Unfortunately, there's a lot of Russian Federation television, the aggressor country that's in that area, and they're brainwashing our citizens. Once again, I want to stress that we will support, personally I will support the new members to the National Council, and I hope that they will give much attention to this issue. Thank you, my friends, for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn the time on. We were just counting on three national deputies, one minute left. It's just that we still have from "The Opposition Platform for Life," and I'm going to give Nestor Ivanovich time, and he's going to declare a conflict of interest, and that's exactly what he's going to do. Nestor Ivanovich, please. Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Head, first of all, there are three more minutes for the Pavlovka National Deputy, and they would ask him to give his word. But before the vote, I would like to state that there are many speculations about some conflict of interest during this vote on my part. So I declare that I will abstain from voting, taking into account the possible conflict of interest during the appointment of members of the National Council on Television and Radio. And I'm asking my colleague Pauline to give you a word, and he had three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u117	I apologize, Mr. Pavlovenko spoke, and you raised your hand; I handed it to you. You used it to make a conflict of interest, and you put a dot on it. But I do know what else they want to say about the conflict of interest. Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, 30 seconds. Who else will it be? And Sumar. 30 seconds. Ariev and Friz. Okay. Please. First, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, 30 seconds for conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to state a possible conflict of interest during the vote for the NACRADA on television and radio. So no matter how much I want to press the red button against some characters, I'm going to hold on. And to you, Mr. Head, we would like to refer to the beginning of today's session when you advertised the "Rady" TV channel. And we want to say that there's already a roller coaster that we're going to require to be screened in the session room in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, please National Deputy Sumar to declare a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u120	I declare my own conflict of interest. I will not vote for members of the National Council for Television and Radio. Although I consider the situation that is now taking place in the information space, simply by destroying reforms and creating public propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ariev, do I understand that there is also a conflict of interest? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u122	I declare that, given the conflict of interest, I will not participate in this vote. Although I urge Parliament to make a balanced choice and not give one hand the right to manage the National Television and Radio Board. Because we're going now, not even to authoritarianism, but to monarchy. And the situation with the "Rada" and "Dom" channels is already confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u123	And the final one, who would want to? Fries, Irina Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u124	I declare a conflict of interest, and I will not vote in favour of candidates for positions in the Television and Radio Broadcasting Foundation. At the same time, I'm calling on all my colleagues in this room to look at what's going on in our information space and how the majority actually monopolizes the information space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u125	Thank you. Have they all expressed their warnings about conflict of interest? Dear colleagues, let's move on to the vote, please take your seats. Let's move to the alphabetical order of the rating vote in each candidature separately. I will call it my name, my name, and my father, and you please be sure of the candidate’s support. All right, first. The rating vote is based on the candidature of Bourmagine Alexandre Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:48:06]] For 272 Next candidature. Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna’s candidature puts the rating vote at stake. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[11:48:31]] For 262 The next vote is the nomination of Głąszcznik Aleksandr Leonidovic. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:48:54]] For-50 Elifer's candidate, Alexander Borisovich, is next on the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:49:16]] For-24 Next. Ilyashenko's candidate, Alexander Borisovich, is in charge of the rating vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:49:39]] For-82 Next. Kifluk Roman Mikolaiovich's candidate for the rating vote is on the table. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:50:04]] For-28 Next. The rating vote is based on Kulisch Olga Volodymyrna's candidate. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:50:26]] For-34 Next. Lachna Evgen Leonidovich’s candidacy for the rating vote is based on the rating vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:50:48]] For-21 Next. The rating vote is based on the nomination of the Lotashevian Igor Alexanderovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:51:09]] For-56 Next. Malazonia's candidate, Lavrenty Temurozovich, is in charge of the rating vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:51:31]] For-53 Next. The candidate of the Paslavski Igor Ivanovich for the rating vote is on the table. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:51:54]] For-43 Next. The rating vote is based on the candidate of Red Olga Valeriyivna. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:52:17]] For-198 And the final vote is today: Montenegro's Oleg Mikolaiovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:52:48]] For 271 The rating procedure has been completed. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with the requirements of article 5, part 8, of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Broadcasting Act, the vote on the appointment of members of the National Council is open every candidate in the sequence defined by the previous rating vote. The vote ends when all vacancies are filled by members of the Supervisory Board on the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other candidates are considered to be rejected. So according to the rating vote, we have three people. The top score of 272 is "Bourmagine" by "Alexandrovich". The second place for the rating vote is Chernish Oleg Mikolajovic with score 271. And the third is Gerasimük Olga Volodymyr, with a score of 262. And in that order, I'm going to put these candidatures. Therefore, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, articles 4 and 5 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, the National Council of Ukraine proposes to vote on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[11:54:20]] For 283 Decision taken. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, articles 4, 5 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, they put to the vote the proposal to appoint a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio broadcasting. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[11:54:55]] For 273 Decision taken. And according to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, articles 4.5 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, I put to the vote the proposal to appoint a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio broadcasting, Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrovna. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:55:29]] For 268. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio: Nigger. Excuse me, Bourmagina Alexandra Alexandrovitch, Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich and Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrovna. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio speaking with responsibility and wish us success and effort in hard work. [[Applause]] I would like to ask the Main Committee, along with the Apparatus, to make decisions on the outcome of the decisions we have made. Dear colleagues, we have four minutes. So there's this proposal, if you can, that colleagues would now consider 6378 without discussion, to rename Vladimir-Wollinsky to Vladimir, if you don't mind. None. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the whole draft Order on the Rename of Volodymyr Volodymyr-Vollin Region of Volin County (project 6378 registration number). Accept as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:57:00]] For 348 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, we've finished our break, we're continuing our consideration of the agenda. Dear colleagues, let's move on, let's move on. Then we have Law 5572 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Effective Administration of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights on the Ensuring of the Collection of Income from Rights by Collective Governance Organizations. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Economic Development of Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluh to attend the rostrum. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, because. Will there be national deputies who will make their initial amendments? [[B in m in s a l in]] Individually, it's not a court of law, it's not foreseen in the Supreme Council. There is an opportunity for us to speak on our own behalf. Let's see, we, as always, go: first the adjustments that will be taken into account; once we have done this, we will put the amendments that will be applied to the confirmation. So I ask, which of the national deputies whose amendments are not included is required. There's two, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, three national deputies. Then we'll go. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I understand, yes, first of all, those who are biased. First things first. Cymbaluk, amendment number three. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u127	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to have to make four adjustments. Amendment number 3. We believe that it is inappropriate to delete from the text of section VI, paragraph 3.2, of the Law a date by which collective management organizations included in the register of collective management organizations are entitled to exercise voluntary collective management of property rights of owners in the areas provided for in article 12, paragraphs 4 and 5, of this Law. We're proposing to give them a term by December 31, 2022, and we think it's going to be a real time for this law to actually be whole and help in the area of voluntary collective governance. Thank you. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u128	Is the committee going to report on this? Please. Briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u129	I can do it very briefly. Dear Mikhailovich, thank you very much for your correction and for your comment. We're just in Amendment 1 and Amendment 19 and we've gone for a slightly different model and we've proposed other lines. First, there's the first of the terms, he's saying that after the adoption of the bill for one month, and not until 31 December, we're talking. And in the 1st amendment, we give another 60 days for the administration since the publication on the official website of the tariff announcement agency. So in a sense, this problem is addressed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u130	Thank you. Mikhail Mikhailovich, are you insisting on setting up? No, it's not. Thank you. That's a compromise when there's questions, an explanation. This is what Parliament is for. Thank you, Mikhailovich. Four. Cabanov. Don't insist. Next. 5th. Olena Kostvena Condratjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u131	Thank you. Olena Kondratuk, vice-specker of Parliament. Dear colleagues, please note that the situation where the congregation and the distribution of the rewards that our authors so need are blocked may be repeated. Because neither the Basic Law on OK nor this bill gives us any answers as to what to do when a competition is recognised as not taking place in the future, or an authorised OK, for example, stops its mandate there in the future. And in this situation then the affected party will again be affected, these are our authors. So I ask you to consider my 5th amendment and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear Helen Constantine, we have considered in part, but once again a slightly different approach to the 19th, because there is actually a recognition that we have lost the organization's validity with the accreditation of collective management since the commission's decision was taken. But when we restart the competition, we're giving a month to actually get this system to work. So I don't think they're going to have a problem exercising their powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u134	Olena Kostvena, you insist, don't you? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the amendment of the 5th National Deputy Condratuk and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:41:01]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 6. It's expensive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u135	Mr. Head, I have three amendments, two minutes and one for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u136	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u137	Good afternoon, colleagues, Mikola Zadrodzny, 162 constituency, sumstina, "Serve of the People" faction. As co-chair of the Interfractional Union for the Music Industry, I have held quite a number of meetings with representatives of music, not only the copyright industry and the Royalty Assembly. Indeed, I agree that today’s system does not provide a complete picture and complete satisfaction to the authors in part of the royalty payment according to their income. Nevertheless, the bill has a risk of further chaos and collapse in this area. I very much hope that those accepted amendments by the committee, for which I thank you separately, because I have partly taken into account my amendments regarding the fact that we are delaying the introduction of the bill, I very much hope that we, together with the Ministry of Economics, will be able to organize and carry out accreditations quickly and qualitatively, and still identify those OCCs that will collect and transparently, honestly distribute the Royalties among the authors. However, in support of some of the amendments introduced by the committee, I would like to place on confirmation. And I ask the Hall to support Amendment 6, which says that by the time the competition is in place and the competition is held, those KICs that already have a business license to be considered accredited. This will allow the KICs, who have copyright rights from many authors, to defend their rights and rights in a more qualitative manner in cases of copyright infringement. Thank you. Please support Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u138	Thank you. The only thing that's not for confirmation, is for amendment number six. Dear colleagues, please prepare. I'm betting on amendment number six of the people's MP of the Road. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:44]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Yes, the Gethmans don't insist. 8th Amendment, Buymaster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u139	Ludmila Buymister, 223 district, Kiev, non-factional. Gentlemen, first of all, Mr. Head, a separate opinion is provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if it is not distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies along with a comparative table, its statement from the rostrum is also provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I would now like to state that this is a violation of the Rules, that I am not allowed to make a separate opinion at a committee meeting. The other one. Gentlemen, this bill is contrary to standard-setting technology because it violates a number of laws of Ukraine, particularly the Constitution of Ukraine. The Supreme Council does not have the authority to revoke the decision of the executive authorities and the decision of the court. If so, let us cancel the Cologne court ruling, which gives him Ukrainian gas from the gas shelters. Let us undo a series of other decisions that the Ukrainian people are not making today. There's some selectivity in that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u140	Yes, I would also like to draw your attention to the Rules, because a single thought is intended for the full consideration of issues, not for the second reading. This time. And the second. In reporting on the amendment, I would still ask you to report more carefully on this amendment. Maybe she had a chance to be counted. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the 8th amendment of National Deputy Buymester. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:38]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 9, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, in fact, our team, when they were preparing for this bill, we wanted it to be more balanced and more perfect. Because we're actually going to support it, but we'd like to have our changes taken into account. On the 9th, we don't understand, and our position is that it is inappropriate in the text of section VI, paragraph 3, of the law to replace words: attention! - "appropriate organizations" for the word "competent organization." Such a replacement is unappreciative. First, the meaning of terms is the same, and secondly, because the text of the law is about contracts that are obviously meant to be made not by one but by a number of organizations. As a result, I would like to ask the committee head to explain the position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u142	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u143	Thank you, Reverend Mikhailovich. The point is that if we consider the amendment you're proposing and remove "between the proper organization", as suggested in the amendment, this will actually lead to the exclusion of one of the parties to the treaty as such, because then the text will sound as follows: "with tariffs defined in collective management contracts and works users." So there's no other side of the contract in collective management contracts and in art users, because the amendment actually suggests simply deleting "between the proper organization." So it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Is there a need? No, it's not. Thank you, Mikhailovich. 10th, Minko. Don't insist. 11th. Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, will you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u145	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. We think it's inappropriate in the text of section 6, paragraph 3, of the law to add the words "creatures from the catalogue of such a collective management organization" after the word "users." Because when we add to the law the words "creatures from a catalogue of such a collective management organization" after the word "users" will harm understanding, in our opinion, of law and work with it. Because the term "user" as defined in article 1 of this law, which is called "Definition of Terms", is proposed in the bill, contrary to the logic of standardization, is introduced in the law of the concept, attention: "users of works from the catalogue of such a collective management organization." Making such a change to the law would, in our view, complicate his understanding. Please, if you can explain, we may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u146	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u147	Dear Mikhailovich, thank you very much. I'll be honest with you, it was one of the most debated rights because of the nuance that you pointed out. However, it came to the conclusion that if you just leave the "user" still, it goes, the user doesn't apply the order. So it's the word "user" that maximizes legal uncertainty. And of course, in the case of court disputes, in the case of a reference to the word "consumer," maybe this term can be used for certain speculations, let's say, in the case of disputes about certain decisions. So it was decided to add the clarification of what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u148	Mikhail Mikhailovich, you don't insist, do you? Thank you. 12 revisions. Will you insist? Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u149	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The presiding officer, given the professional explanation for the grounds for the rejection of rights by Mr. Nataluh's head of committee, I think that number 12 is pointless to discuss and place on confirmation. The "Paternity" team in the session room supports this bill on second reading as a whole. We believe that he will serve to regulate the problems that exist with copyright today, as the law speaks of. Thank you. So far, the bill's being drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, I'd like to ask you to speak to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u151	I also wanted to thank the Fatherland faction, personally Mr. Zimbaluku, for a very constructive and professional approach in the process of filing rights. It's really one of the patterns where it wasn't meant to hurt, it was just to improve the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u152	God, it feels like the holidays are coming! Thank God, fellows of honor! Thank you for your compromise and understanding. 13th, Ruššin. Don't insist. 14th, Taruta. Don't insist. 15th, Fedienka. Don't insist. 16th, Taruta. Don't insist. 18th, Taruta. Don't insist. 20th, Kabanov. Don't insist. 21st, Roadside. I've already reported it. 22nd Condratiuk. Don't insist. 23rd, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 24th. Buymaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u153	I have two revisions left. If you give 2 minutes, then you can put it together for the vote, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u154	No, let's take a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u155	Okay. Gentlemen, you think this law will solve the problem. That's not really true. Our authors and stars will not receive the copyright because this bill brings us back to the chaos that existed in the Royalty Payment System until 2018. And so the media groups have already confirmed that they will not pay for chaos but will go to the courts and defend their rights in the courts. The authors will flee from us to the aggressor country, to the Russian Federation, where they will be met with arms spread out, as they say. So, colleagues, understand that when you vote for this bill, you're putting our entire music industry in the hands of the Kremlin. And those who are going to press the green button, realize what part of the process you're going to be, because you're going to be responsible for that. He's not going to solve the problem because it's just ruining and nothing new.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u156	You insist on putting this amendment on. Dear colleagues, I place 24 amendments to National Deputy Buymister, she is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:38]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 25th, Taruta. Don't insist. 26th Condratuk Olena Kostvena. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u157	Thank you. Olena Kondratuk, vice-specker of Parliament. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to insist on taking full-scale corrections into account, yes. But I want to draw your attention to paragraph 5, because it is very and very important, because we can see the concern of the public and the business community, as well as the concern of our international partners that a bill that has to regulate the area of collective governance that is now blocked can also affect other areas where the organization was, normally works and defines all the norms that are just allowing our CCI to work. So in order to avoid any speculation, I ask you to confirm that the adoption of this bill does not aim at reviving the entire system of collective governance. I'm asking you, head of the committee, then to confirm simply that we are only dealing with a narrow part of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u158	Please speak for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. That is not the goal, and I support it publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yes, 27th. Put it to a vote? No, we don't. 27th, the Gethmans. It doesn't matter. 28th, Buymaster. This is the final amendment of those that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, first of all, when we're talking about the organization of collective governance, remember, it's a voluntary union, and there can't be any talk of Parliament's authority over the regulation that governs these rights. Don't put that in the hands of lobbyist organizations. The other one. And the second is that Ukraine is disgracefully a figure of 301 sanctions so far. This limits investment in our country in the most innovative industries that need copyright protection and royalty payments. This will have negative consequences for the entire economy of Ukraine, not just for the cultural sphere, but for the cultural sphere in general. So please think twice or three times before pressing the green button. Once again, colleagues, I urge you to take a responsible position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u162	You insist on voting for this amendment. Dear colleagues, the 28th Amendment of National Deputy Buymester, has been rejected. The author asks for it to be taken into account. The committee insists that it remain rejected. Please vote. [[12:55:38]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Sanchenko for confirmation of 1st and 19th, I understand, right? Please, Deputy Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u163	Two minutes, there's two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u164	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u165	One's good enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u166	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u167	Colleagues, I rarely take the floor, but this is a unique case that's very important to the music industry. As head of the music industry subcommittee, I have to say this. In fact, the extent to which the authors receive their copyright is being blocked. And this law unlocks this story. And in fact, from the moment it's adopted, it's going to be possible to compile first by catalogs of those organizations that run copyright. and defines a specific term of determination and competition, representing a single organization that has the right to assemble. I want to say two important things. First, it was because of the failure of this law that there was an attempt to bribe $100,000, which was recorded by the BSS. And think twice about why they gave up for failing. Accordingly, I propose to support this bill. A large number of artists, more than 110 organizations support: Go-A, TNMK, the largest festival, the largest radio stations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u168	So you don't insist that we put them on. Dear colleagues, I'm very glad we discussed all the questions. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose that the committee adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Effective Administration of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights on the Protection of Income from Collective Governance Organizations, registered number 5572. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:57:50]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Yes, let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill we have is 6306, it's the first reading, it's a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the provision of medical care. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue with a reduced procedure, you need 150 votes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on this issue in favour of a reduced procedure. [[12:58:39]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite a reporter, Ukrainian national deputy Stefanisin Olga Anatoliyevna. Please, Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, first of all, this bill is very urgent, and we finally have our hands on the medical bills. Why is it urgent? Because if we can't vote it out, actually 200,000 people with diabetes could be out of insulin by January 2022. Our bill will allow them to continue to receive their life - sustaining medication. Among these 200,000 people are also children. In addition, this bill introduces new incentives for the implementation of medical reform in Ukraine. First of all, it's monitoring the services that are being provided to patients from the state. Thanks to our changes, the state will be able to see the quality and full range of patients receiving medical services at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget. This is important for the protection of patients and for their satisfaction with the services provided in hospitals today. The other one. The Health Guarantee Program now has twice as much money as it needs, but these costs are sometimes not spent on the program. This program is called upon to provide medical services and medicines at the expense of the state. This law establishes that the funds allocated to the Medical Guarantees Programme should be spent solely on the Medical Guarantees Program. We also introduce the concept of a register of orthodontic patients. It is not available now, so the state cannot properly and properly calculate the need for medicine and services. We're making a perfect system of palliative medical care, as is happening today, because legislation is out of date. We also improve the standard of electronic health care. I am asking you very much to support this bill, because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u170	The word is given to the coreporter, the Head of the Committee on Health and Health Care of the Nation, and to Raduchki Mikhail Borisovich. Please, Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u171	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The drafting of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the provision of medical care (6,366) is based on the need to improve the effectiveness of the National Health Service as the sole public supplier of medical services, to improve the health care of the population, and to implement the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine since 30 July 2021. What does the bill propose? Improve the mechanism for monitoring compliance by health providers with contract conditions, regulating the development of an electronic health system, establishing a cluster principle for the organization of hospital districts, uniting secondary and third-party health care into one form. As a result of the meeting, the committee decided to recommend Bill 6306 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading, taking into account the need to amend other articles of legislation and other laws of Ukraine that were not considered in the first reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, shorten the deadline for the submission by subjects of the right to legislative initiative for proposals and amendments when preparing the bill for second reading. Colleagues, please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss this matter? It doesn't, does it? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please. The word is given to the national deputy to Danuci Alexander Anatolyevich, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u174	Lady Bullach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u175	Colleagues, I just want to say a little bit about this bill. He really worked at the National Health Committee. But his main goal is to comply with President 261, where we have to create conditions in the following year for every doctor to have a salary of at least 20,000 bracelets and every nurse or nurse (medium medical staff) at least 13.5,000 bracelets. It's in Parliament's hands. And it is in this bill that we are implementing the principles of this order of our President and we guarantee all health care workers no less than those figures. This is the first time. Secondly, really, what does the unification of secondary and third-party medical care mean? Today, a third of medical care is our medical institutions, which unfortunately, instead of doing scientific work, studying public health problems, studying diseases and new approaches to their treatment, simply provide routine medical care. To ensure that every Ukrainian has equal access to health care and their quality is also guaranteed and the same, we combine secondary and third-party medical care. This guarantees every Ukrainian the same quality of medical care, and there will be no more quality or less quality. The value of health is the same for all Ukrainians, so we combine a secondary and a third level of health care. There are also many other issues that really improve the work of the National Health Service, which is the public purchaser of all medical services. The beneficiary is the third person – a citizen of Ukraine. I very much ask you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u176	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland. Julia Volodymyr, please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u177	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u178	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I know that many deputies do not read the laws. Well, basically, it doesn't really take much to press the button. But I would like to explain in fact what there is in this law, and you just have to be aware of why you're pressing the buttons. You all know what health reform is like for Ulysses Suprun. You know very well that this has led to a reduction in the number of hospitals, the FAPs, the infirmary, the short-term doctors who are moving out of Ukraine today, and in fact, the medicine under this slogan is being cleaned up. You have to, when you vote for this law, answer one question: are you in charge of medical medicine for people or are you in favour of insurance medicine? If you are in favor of medical treatment, vote for the mud you are offered. Because there's actually going to be funding, not just by the state, not just by the local budgets, but by the people, that's essentially co-financing. So I want to remind you that all normal civilized countries have insurance. And no person in a normal, civilized country, including a European country, is pulling money out of his pocket or paying for health care. If you vote now, you really support the fact that people will pay for health care, for the treatment of their children, parents, and so on. Just report to yourself whether you support it or not. You support the destruction of the third level of the health system - where specialized tuberculosis, psychiatric hospitals, where medical science? If you support, vote for what they give you, if you don't, don't say a word. We need insurance medicine, not Utopia, which is killing people today!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u179	The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u180	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u181	Olga Stefanisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u182	So it's quite obvious that Julia Volodymyrna doesn't understand at all what she's saying from the rostrum, as always, she's lying. [[B in m in s a l in]] The truth is that medical services are now provided under the Health Guarantees Programme. This program is absolutely free of charge and does not require additional funds from the patient’s pockets. Everything about extra services that the state can't pay for, we're giving hospitals and Ukrainian doctors the opportunity to legally provide for patients, and that's not happening right now. So, Julia Volodymyr, I'm asking you very much to read the laws and not to confuse useful initiatives for patients and for Ukrainian doctors, and not to lie from the rostrum, what you're saying right now, because that's absolutely not true. If you do not want to improve medical care for patients, say so immediately. And the fact that you keep telling lies about medical reform is that no one in this country believes you anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u183	Timoshenko's word for reply, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u184	The key is to be trusted. I want to remind you that this person, who has just tried to humiliate or offend someone here, was Mrs. Ulyana Suprun's deputy and did everything that led to the destruction of the health system today. I want to say that this person will be responsible for the genocide of the Ukrainian nation with Uljana Suprun sooner or later. And the fact that you're continuing this case is that you apologize to the Ukrainian people, that when you went to power, you said you were going to fix this situation and introduce insurance. And that's why you tricked the Ukrainian people. And if you really want to see confidence in you today, go out to the region and listen to what they say about you and your health care system. Sooner or later, this lady will be responsible for the destruction of the Ukrainian health system. It's just insurance medicine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, let's do it anyway. We started off so well with the design, let's actually constructively end it. Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna. Next, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Who else wants to speak? And then we go to the vote. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u186	Irina Konstanovic, Party for the Future, Volin, 23 constituency. Dear Society, I agree with my colleagues that there are positive things in this bill. And they're two. This is the goal of improving the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Health Service and of preventing the risk of violations of citizens’ health care rights. That's the goal, but it's declarative. Because it's the bill that's going to solve these questions. We have not been in the first year of high turbulence as a result of the health - care reform. I represent the Majority District of Volini, rural areas. And so I say, people, go to the people, and you'll hear what they're saying and how they're being treated. In fact, it is a major disaster — a modern health system. All that's out there, all that's for poor people, all that's for poor people, every meeting in the district is one health problem, people don't have the capacity to treat. And this bill opens the way for paid medicine, it's green light for paid services, not for the treatment of ordinary Ukrainians who live from wages to wages. Therefore, the honorable "ministers of the people," if you care for the rich, for the wealthy, who can afford to be treated in accordance with this law, vote. The Party for the Future group won't vote because we're for those people who live on minimum wages. Keep going. We can't finish the reform with those resilient hospitals, we haven't got any.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u187	The word is given to national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Then there's Larissa Bilozer, and then there's the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u188	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the Constitution clearly states that Ukrainian citizens are entitled to free treatment. It can be in two ways: state (we have already forgotten what it is) or insurance (we have not yet been able to provide it). What cynicism must guide people to be co-payers of medical services! They have the constitutional right to receive medical care. And, you know, I want to mark the clarity and unity of all major MPs, all factions that don't accept this law. Those who vote for it will be cursed by men, and they will find the name of every one who has voted. So, please, please, let go of this law and feel sorry for the people, feel pain for them to be healthy and alive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u189	The word is given by Bilozer Larissa Mikolayivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we have been delegated by people to make good laws. And tomorrow they're going to ask us what we've done here and what we've stressed here. So I'm telling you, we're voting. Here, under the beautiful title "Holiday Clustering" we have the optimization, reduction and consolidation of hospitals. What does that mean? That we're getting it out of the law and giving it to Kabmin. And I've seen this modeling. The clustering modeling in the Winnitsky area is not even ten hospitals. There's only one hospital left in my district, and that's not it. And those who provide really services, those who actually work, because of these poorly chosen criteria of USAID, they fall out. Next. What kind of pay, what kind of pay? You want these 120 billion, which are underfunded medical guarantees, to get people out of their pockets, to pay? Surrender! This law cannot be adopted. We're not going to have a security system with this law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've all spoken, we've discussed this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal from the committee, a proposal to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the provision of medical assistance (project registration number 6306). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:16:38]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that the subject of the legislative initiative should then be returned to the draft law. Show me the factions, please. Fellow Members, I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the provision of medical care (registration number 6306). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:17:29]] For 244 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next Bill 5873 (this second reading). Dear colleagues, Bill 5873 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving health management and health care. Dear colleagues said that there was an opportunity to vote without amendment because no one would insist on it. Will someone insist on repairs? So you don't have any amendments. What are you yelling at? Who's it gonna be? It's speed, isn't it? Do you have any corrections? Please, People's Deputy Skorik. Call your amendment number first. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u192	Number 42.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you present part two of article 24 of the law in such an order. "A patient's access to the data contained in the electronic health system is only possible if the patient or his legal representative consent is obtained in writing or in a form that leads to the conclusion that consent is granted. Without consent, access to information about the patient is possible in cases where there are signs of direct threats to the patient's life and the court's decision." These conditions that you're giving to reveal the patient's confidential data tell us that we don't even have such an understanding as confidentiality, with your life in a smartphone at all. I ask you very much to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u195	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u196	We've calculated all the risks and situations. And it was clearly prescribed when it was possible for a doctor to access information without the patient’s consent. That is, when a patient may be present. He's in an accident, and he can't give that consent, who then and how can the doctor take his information, is he allergic or not? We made it clear. Let's not manipulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u197	Are you insisting on making an amendment? Dear colleagues, the 42th Amendment of the People’s MP, Skork, has been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:18]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, everyone has made adjustments who wants to. I can move on to making a decision, right? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose that the committee adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the health management and health care system (project number 5873) on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:21:13]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill is the ratification, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the Creative Europe programme (2021-2027) (project registration number 0138). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Is that right? So let's think about this in a simplified way. I'll bet you I'll take a brief look at it. Please vote. [[13:22:02]] For 249 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the words of the deputy minister of culture and information policy of Chuyev Catherine Eugene. Please, Catherine Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! So the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the Creative Europe programme developed by the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy and introduced by the President of Ukraine for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the timely implementation of all the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on participation in the largest grant programme of the European Union, which enables cross-sectoral international cooperation for Ukrainian cultural institutions with European partners. This programme is the EU’s largest grant programme. Grants received by organisations, international projects under the programme, range from 200,000 to 2 million euros. Ukraine has to pay its contribution each year, based on a dynamic formula. And in fact, the ratification of this draft law is what we need first in order to start the process and Ukraine can pay the 21st year's fee. In Creative Europe programmes, Ukrainians, creative industries, the cultural sector, the audiovisual sector have the opportunity to join international cooperation, as well as European literature, music, cultural heritage protection, architecture and other initiatives and to participate accordingly in international projects. In previous years, such projects were over 117, and the amount of grants was over 5.5 million euros. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, we are very much asked to support the bill and allow Ukrainian culture to develop further in the European context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u199	Thank you. I invite the first Vice-President of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union, Vadim Sergiyovich Galajczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u200	Dear Mr. Golovo, fellow MPs, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's Participation in the Creative Europe Programme (2021-2027) is now proposed for consideration by the President of Ukraine. The president defined this bill as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As has already been said, the purpose of this bill is to implement all necessary internal procedures in order for this agreement to take effect. Ukraine has been participating in this European Union programme since 2016. The programme aims to support and strengthen the competitiveness of European cultural, creative and audiovisual sectors, as well as to develop and promote cultural, linguistic and cultural diversity and preserve the cultural heritage of European countries. The result of Ukraine's participation in the programme in 2016-2020 is 38 international projects with the participation of our Ukrainian organizations in cooperation with 117 partner institutions from nearly 30 European Union countries. The total programme budget for 2021-2027 will be 2.4 billion euros. Our Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union discussed the text of the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement with the European Union on 8 December 21 and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this issue, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition. The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy Major Oleni Volodymyrni, the political party "Serve of the People". The "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u202	Please pass the word to Mary Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u203	Mesenchev Maria Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u204	Thank you, Elena. Thank you, Mr. Head. Friends, it's not just the numbers we're talking about today, it's the culture that unites all European states on our subcontinent. And in such important times of challenges as the pandemic, access to a 2.7 billion-euro programme for a small contribution is important for our cinematographer, for literature, for culture. And we have to support Ukrainian culture and spread it around the world. That's why our European Synergy Committee with Mincult has worked out this draft decision very quickly and recommends that the Supreme Council support this contribution so that our cultural fund will be replenished, so that this is not just 117 projects, although it is a very large number, but much more. I call, colleagues, to support this bill, to support Creative Europe, to support creative Ukraine. Thank you very much, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u205	Thank you. Welcome to the floor of National Deputy Klimenko Julius Leonidovna, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u206	Klimenko, "Justice." Dear colleagues, we will certainly support both the entry of Ukraine and pay for Ukraine's membership in the Creative Europe programme. But what I want to remind you is that Ukraine is actually a member of a lot of European programs, such as entrepreneurship programs as COSME, the size of 3 billion, like Creative Europe, like many other programs. But unfortunately, as a state and as an executive, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not teach our entrepreneurs and our citizens to actively participate in these programs and to win grants, and to be active participants in order to lead both Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian entrepreneurship. In fact, the numbered entrepreneurs of Ukraine and the numbered creative industry participate in these programs. So I call first of all for the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as for appropriate ministries: the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, to organize the training of entrepreneurs in the creative industry so that they can participate in these grants in large quantities of quality, and so Ukrainian culture and entrepreneurship will spread on the European continent. If we don't do that, unfortunately, our chances of winning a competitive, competitive environment for these grant programs will be very, very small. So I encourage you to create a separate budget programme and to make training courses for our entrepreneurs and the cultural industry to take an active part here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u207	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u208	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to give the floor to the distinguished national MP, Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u209	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, High Commissioner for People's Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u210	Thank you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I always insist on discussing such ratifications and other documents, since they are related to the financial aspect. What are we talking about? Well, look, for example, this year we have to pay a contribution under this program of 738,000 euros, about 1 million euros -- that's up to 30 million dollars, in the area of 30 million dollars. In the coming years, we will also pay 883,000 euros, 752,000 euros, 805, and so on until 2027. So every year, we're only going to contribute to one Creative Economy programme, about 1 million euros. Yeah, it's just one program, think about what else there are and how important they are. First moment. Second, the President introduces an urgent bill. And I want to see an immediate bill to settle the Donbas conflict. Where are his special status bills, based on the Steinmayer formula? Where are his drafts for the Paris Summit? He had already signed obligations there that he was to make as urgent. That's what the President of Ukraine is supposed to do, not make papers about the Creative Economy. And the third is about the integration of Ukraine. Instead of taking part in the Creative Europe programme (this is also not bad), please give us suggestions on how to overcome the raw economy, asymmetry in trade with the European Union, how to overcome that inequality when you are asked to, and you vote, abolish the moratorium on the export of roundwood, when you make exemptions to the Localization Act for the countries of the European Union and the United States, so that this law does not apply to them. Here are the documents to enter the Supreme Council as urgent from the President of Ukraine. Then there will be an economic impact, not just economic costs and an increase in government debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u211	Please, National Deputy Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is Creative Europe, and it's impossible to imagine a book like this in any European country when power, using its usurpation position in the Supreme Council, does this. And the next creative idea of this green power is the "Council" channel, which is now being turned into a bank hole. We are proud that back in the days of Yanukovitch, we, the opposition, were able to turn into a normal European television channel, which should simply inform us about the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, showing the accessibility of every Ukrainian citizen of what is happening here: how are the committees going through the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Today, we receive signals from media experts, including Mrs. Tetjana Katyuszinski, who told us about another creative idea of this team that during Zelensky's performance, we only showed Zelensky and showed no opposition from any faction. Next. I will demand that tomorrow Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, just like the lady who showed the book and the video here, give our faction the opportunity to demonstrate a role that is unknown to no one, about the Council TV channel, and which begins with words that demean the opposition, and today the opposition is 73 percent of the citizens of Ukraine who oppose this power. Did you know there's a man working on "The Council" today who set up the Medvedchuk channel? So Zelenski and Ko are closing the Medvedczuk channels with one hand, and in the other hand, the manager of Medvedczuk's channel is invited here to create a new, updated network called "The Council." Did you know that you voted 450 million dollars out of the vote in order for the Council to give money to the TV channel? That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u213	Next, dear colleagues. People’s deputy Krulko Ivanovich is invited to attend. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u214	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This bill, of course, will support this ratification of the Fatherland faction. But, you know, I'd like to talk to all the colleagues who are listening to the speakers in this room right now, and especially to Ukrainian citizens, about this. You all need to know that the real implementation in Ukraine of technical assistance coming from the European Union, particularly through the European Investment Bank, through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is completely unsatisfactory. I'll give you just one example. By the 23rd year, there is a 400 million euro programme for infrastructure projects in small towns in Ukraine from the European Investment Bank. So 400 million euros -- at this point, 4 million, or 1 percent. And likewise, the same trend in the EBRD projects, in the Eastern Partnership projects, in other aids that would work today for Ukraine's development and in order to do so today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Oh, Shahov, of course. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u216	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, we support this decision, but just read "Creative Europe." In fact, creatively, where in the center of Europe today, in a civilized world, MOH is being persecuted by infectious doctors in the Mikolai region, Svetlan Fedorov, just for hearing that she has the least mortality, the least mortality in the state, being persecuted for using the two robes that entrepreneurs gave her, taking into account 40,000 dollars and wanting to cut off the hospital's finances at all, not giving money. What's happening with "Creative Europe" again. Sailors have yet to pay their wages. The main thing is that everyone's talking about it today, thank God! Collaborators are within a state that has caused damage to the state for billions of dollars, and no one has yet been punished. Where's Creative Europe, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please take up their jobs. And I'm making a proposal to the committee. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. I propose that the committee adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the Credit Europe programme (2021-2027) (project registration number 0138). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:37:30.]] For 319 Decision taken. Adopted as a whole, the law was passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next question is 6373, this is the draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the Golden City Head of the Golden District of the Cherkas region. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes, please. Then I would like to vote on this issue in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:14]] For 253 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the Vice-President of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Zagorujko Alina Leonidivna. Please, Alina Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u218	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! On December 1, 2021, the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Urban Development discussed the question of the appointment of the next election of the Golden City Head of the Golden District of the Cherka region. This issue has been raised before the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the late termination of the mandate of the Golden City Head of Wojciechów Vitaly Alexanderovich on his own request on the basis of a personal application for the filing of headship. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the committee adopted the conclusion. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution, part one, article 5, part three, part one, article 194, part one, of the Ukrainian Electoral Code 195, to appoint an alternate election of the Golden City Head of the Golden Region of the Cherkanio Region on Sunday, March 27, 2022, by adopting an appropriate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I'd like you to support my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u219	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, is there a need to discuss? Please, two for, two for, one for, one for. The word is given to the People's Deputy, Ljuboti Dmitry Valeriovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u220	Please pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u221	Vitaly Bezgin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u222	Vitaly Bezgin, "Serial of the People" faction. My colleagues, I don't think we should be spending a lot of time talking about these issues, actually, it's our job to appoint an election. The former mayor of this community is now our parliamentary colleague, so let's choose a new self-government for the city. Requesting all to support, to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u223	Thank you. Please Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u224	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u225	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u226	Dear Ukrainians! I just got this text from people who monitor the Council TV, a state television channel that still exists, not for Greensky's money, but for taxpayers' money. We got the following information that as soon as Mrs. Heraszczenko said that today the "Council" channel was run by the man who created the Medvedczuk channel, I was expelled. I'm sorry, this is the first case since Janukovitch, when there's opposition here, and the moment I'm talking on the "Council" channel, that the "Rady" channel today, like Social Speech, becomes a tool of banking censorship, my "Rady" channel is shutting down the "Rady" channel. I also want to inform you that I am awaiting a signature from the Head of the Supreme Council that a roller coaster that has been taken at an unknown cost by an unknown outsourcing that begins with the words "the opposition lies there.""and this ad goes through the "Council" channel, and I want it to be shown here, and all the Ukrainian citizens have seen what the authorities, Bankova, Greensky and his Supreme Council head are trying to turn into the "Council" channel. The Rada TV channel, at an incomprehensible cost, and you voted the amendment, passed it on during the vote, 450 million to create a studio that was blocked on the second floor today, from a historic space. The Council Tele channel was cut off on live today, honorary colleagues, direct broadcasts, when there was an opposition, and now there will be outsourcing programs running by unknown people. We demand that we accept the position on the "Council" TV channel, about not interfering with the editorial policy of the " Rada" channel, about the inability to censor the "rada" channel. And what was in Goldfoot was that President Zelensky was running the candidate there for a pen and so was the money of the oligarch sponsors in the clean field.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u227	Here we go, dear fellows. The word is given to national deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Voice". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u228	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u229	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u230	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” If you go back to the question that's being discussed in this room right now, the question of elections, I would like to thank you for the very comprehensive presentation by Alina Zagorujko, very accessible and very clear. But there's one "but." We have choices that we assign to each other for different reasons and different reasons. There are choices that we make when we choose a member of the Supreme Council who has emerged from our MPs for one reason or another. There are choices we make for local councils. And I want to remind everyone of the case when on December 16th he left Hennaday Kernes in Kharkiv, December 16th, and only the February 24th city council of Kharkiv took to the known fact of his death. For 70 days, Mr. Head, the local council in a criminal way did not accept the fact of death at all. They organized a great memory - honoring operation, and the whole city came out on the street, but the city council could not accept this fact of death for 70 days. It's a disgraceful scheme that takes citizens' rights, people's rights to communities, in this case, Kharkiv, in other cases of other communities of our country, to live with the chosen heads, the chosen people, not the people, i.e., those who are out there being held under their sleeves or in their pockets, but the ones who are being chosen by the people. Mr. Head, Ruslan Stefanchuk, I'm addressing you. There is a constructive decision: Bill 5241, which was first read, Bill 5241, which was passed by the committee, amendments to the second reading, along with colleague Sergei Vlasenko, Alina Zagorujko, we tabled the amendments, we counted them, and the bill is ready for consideration, I ask you to consider it urgently.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u231	Please give my word to Father Taras Ivanovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u232	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u233	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u234	Dear Ukrainians, something in the forest died, and our colleagues began to hold a quick election after the election by MPs, three months later, not nine months later, not a year later, as they had done before, when they did not know who would be the winner of the election. When they are confident of their victory, they make quick elections and conduct the necessary person. It's their right, they're a majority today, they're in power today. When Mr. Wojciechowski was on the run and there was no deputy, I did such a good thing for the people of Goldilocks: I beat the money out of the four kindergartens (“Berozka”, “Jalenka”, “Vesellka” and “Romaška”) to change the windows. It's been six months -- it's not what they haven't changed, they're asking for a replacement because they're conducting a tender for the wrong procedure that was envisaged. But it's gone, there's an MP, I know he doesn't care anymore. I have a great request for you, Mr. Wojciekhowski. When you bring your head in, carry out an enamel that, in order to install windows, you have to perform a tender with the same formulation as it is provided for in order to win an honest winner and install them. Because once in December, January, and February, during the winter, changing windows in gardens is not commilfo as a minimum. I'm not saying it's ugly anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u235	The right of reply is the national deputy of Vojciekhovsky. Then Shufrich and Vlasenko. I understand, don't I? Please, first a minute is Vojciekhowski, right to repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, it's disgusting when a deputy seems to be trying to help, and his assistant is giving a letter with a firm to win. That's disgusting. Dear colleagues, there's a lot to talk about. But if I look at this, I have an internship right now, let's create a ministry of demagogies and manipulation, and let's give some of the opposition a chance to lead it. Thank you. I don't have any more words.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u237	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, please. Nestor Ivanovich, your minute. Then Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u238	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would ask my colleague not to mention the name and surname of Victor Medvedczuk because of his respect for his status as Ukrainian national deputy, and he can't answer you. So it looks, frankly, yes, it does. The other one. Of course, we will do everything we can to ensure that the "Council" channel, which is funded by the Supreme Council and the budget of Ukraine, represents all political parties proportionally. But justice for the sake of it, Ira, this top manager who's set up the work of ZIK, and now he's working on "Rady," he's got the direct channel working. Well, a talented man. Well, he's a very talented man. He's got this job: he runs the rating channel, and then he moves on. So let's respect the talents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u239	Please give the word to Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u240	Thank you, Mr. Head. The elections in Goldilocks are to be held. The only thing that's very interesting is to hear moralism from someone who won the election by bribery, you know. It's interesting to hear that kind of moralism. But I have a different question. Once again, in Goldilocks, there are no questions. Why don't you tell me why there are elections at other locations? Where are the elections in Bloody Rose, please? Why are the papers on the committee and still not in the hall? When the mayor of the Horn of Curve died, why is there no election so far? Are you afraid to lose? Are you afraid to lose, "greens," or what's going on in there? All local communities have the same status, wherever there are no measures, where there are no rural, rural heads, they need to hold elections immediately, and we need to give up the situation where elections to local governments are only twice a year. You made it up, too, before that. As soon as there's no mayor, there's an election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Check it out, huh? Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u242	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, indeed, there are double standards. Please tell me, in Luhansk, the elections were held in 2014 when there were loud military action, in the 15th year, in 19th year, President Vladimir Zelenski was elected, and Parliament was elected with a loud applause, 96 percent of Lugansk gave back and Donetskin. Please tell me, why are more than 500,000 people deprived of constitutional rights today? Today, the heads of the military and civilian administrations have to run the areas one by one. Or should we call for district elections, district deputies to be appointed? Or should we hold elections today in Severodonetsk and Lysichansk, where people are poor, and class "A" or military-civil governments are robbing billions of dollars? Perhaps we should pay attention there, Your Honor? Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're finally moving on to making a decision. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt the whole draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the Golden City Head of the Golden District of the Cherkas region (project No. 6373). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:52:51]] For 331 Decision taken. Adopted in general, the law passed in general. It's a decree. Please, one minute, Helen Kostvena on "Rady."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, continuing with the theme of "The Council" of our company. I would like to stress the following: The Council is a state television channel in which the editorial board works is an editorial charter. Moreover, it is guided by how to explain our work and by a corresponding decision, which has been voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to tell you this, in turn. I'm going to keep an eye on and monitor, as the work is now coming out, as of today, the "Council" of our work. I'll let you know about today's failures, if they were, as I say tomorrow. I'd like everyone to join in. We need to understand that objectivity and impartiality, as well as parity lighting, should be continued at the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u245	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, we have six minutes left. We have two bills in our second reading. Will there be any comments? 3474 is a draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of the labeling of audiovisual copies, phonographs, videos, computer programs, databases. Can we vote? Therefore, honourable colleagues propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to cancel the marking of audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases (project registration number 3474). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:55:02]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill (I just want to ask if we're going in or not?) 4147, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of the national qualification system. It's a second reading. We can vote, right? Can't we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. How many amendments have you made to let us know? A lot of changes? We've got five minutes left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Which means you won't bet, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, we haven't asked yet. I just asked if they would insist. So we can't look at it right now. Let's use 5 minutes or 4 What's the offer? Motivator from procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u246	We ask that we now move on to Law 5323. I'm asking you to use your right to continue the session for 15 minutes to look at the technology parks. They're a couple of times in the daytime. We ask them to vote in the first reading. Two laws: 5678, 5679. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-15-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, can we vote on the tech parks? No, there isn't. 4323 can we vote then? What about 5323 on the principles of national regional policy? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, guys, it's the market. Come on, we can't, we can't compromise, you know? [[B in m in s a l in]] 5323, right? Two minutes of Cymbaluk and can we vote? No, well, what's the deal? Dear colleagues, that's all. I thank everyone for the constructive. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. I'll meet you tomorrow at 10:00.
