ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u1	In response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The list of questions to be considered at an extraordinary meeting is available to you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Sergei Volodymyrovich, do you remember how to register? Aren't we going to do it again? Are you ready to register? Please register. [[14:00:58]] There are 312 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Who will act? Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! In the morning, the patients were out of breath because there were no concentrators, sick blues, because there was no oxygen. The bodies lie among the living because there is no car to be transported on time. There is a shortage of drugs, and no wages are paid to doctors. And so that the dear servants don't twist my words, I want to emphasize that this is a quote from the TSN release on the channel that led you to power. A year ago, nobody in the world was ready for a pandemic -- it's true. During this time, most countries have developed a deep - seated defense of the human protection system. And only we have a third wave of pandemics that turned out to be a complete surprise to the authorities. After selling protection masks at the beginning of the pandemic, Zelensky promised that Ukraine would be among the first countries to carry out vaccination. What? There are now states where 50 percent of Europe’s population has been vaccinated, and the majority of Europe’s countries have exceeded 10 percent of its population. In Ukraine, percentages are calculated. Yeah, there's tough competition in the world for access to vaccines. It's not an easy task, but it's competition between heads of state and government. And we have to note with regret that Greens lost this fight, the vaccine is broken. Instead, tens of billions of dollars were rolled into the gold-plated asphalt, and only 40 percent of the allocated funds were recovered by the Ministry of Defense. And the other day, a very authoritative doctor said that by the end of the year, there will be collective immunity in Ukraine, as in European countries, only in those countries, thanks to vaccination, and we have a record death rate, which has now come out, unfortunately, of our country. And we demand to unite, to convene meetings of the National Security and Defence Council together, to participate in all the factions and groups of the Supreme Council. We have additional proposals for our plan to counter the coronavirus -- to allocate the cost of obtaining a vaccine license in the middle of the state. The development of unique drugs is about to be completed, and in order for vaccines to happen, we need to contract and pay for them. Unlike vaccines, we need to protect people with drugs and allow them to buy local self - government in order to protect people from unprofessional authority. For over a year, our team has been doing everything they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u3	Another break came. There's a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u4	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Unfortunately, you won't say much in three minutes, but you can see a lot in three minutes. I've just come from Luhansk to participate in an extraordinary session of Parliament. With my own eyes, I saw once again the burners who came to my reception, and there were 800 houses — 1,600 people. They're kids who have grandparents all over Ukraine. And there is still no reparation for the fact that people are burned alive for nothing. There is no responsibility for the head of the military and civilian administration who burned 16 people alive. And I'm saying, as Luhansk's national deputy, the interim commission of inquiry has already concluded that there is the guilt of officials appointed by the vertical. But they still say they're godfathers or presidents or presidents. And there's no punishment, and no one wants to hear from the officials of Class "A" and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First. On their way into a peaceful Ukraine, people do not receive free PLR tests, nor do they receive free assistance from a large Ukraine. Buses cost 500 - 1,000 dollars to get to the city of Severodonecka. How do we want to end a war when inside the country there are divers who kill people psychologically and physically? With my eyes, I saw a green woman dressed as a burner. 40 percent of the forest burned down, no one took responsibility. 22 billion dollars have caused direct damage to our country -- no one is responsible. Criminal conduct is not violated. Today, I am calling on the minister of health to pay attention to moving to a peaceful Ukraine from those occupied areas and to see what money is being taken for today’s PLR. I'm asking Minister Habakkuk's Ministry of Defense to still violate criminal conduct and investigate the head of Hayday's military-civil administration, who is still in charge of the area, killing people -- a divergent inside the country. The first fire was not done by the extermination headquarters. The second fire is no extermination headquarters yet, on these issues. And again, irresponsibility, first. And secondly, they're going to kill openly and no one's going to pay any attention to it. And we want people living in a peaceful country today to have a normal life and to have faith in Parliament. To be trusted and trusted, we must.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u5	Thank you. So let's get to the point. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of specific issues of military duty and military accounting (registration number 3553) (this is second reading). At the rostrum, the deputy head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Besugal Marian Volodymyryn, is invited to the rostrum. Who's going to insist on editing? Babak, Shkrum. Five national deputies. No one's going to insist anymore? By name, then. Babak, what kind of papers are you going to insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u6	271.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u7	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, a bill that was prepared for first reading, states that the appeal is dismissed by those who are the recipients of a higher or higher education and so on. This right was suggested to add the words "professional" and "professional and technical education." The point is that children of the same age are both in professional higher education and in vocational and technical education. So please put this amendment to the vote and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u9	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u10	Overruled. In general, we tried to make the most of the adjustments. Of the 421 revisions, 103 are included and partially 55 are included, but this is now contrary to the concept of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u11	I'm betting on the 271st vote. The committee is not supported. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. 271, Babak's right. [[14:10:14]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. The watermelon. Once again, if you could: Lubenets, Scrum, Tsimbaluk and Batenko, I see. The watermelon. What adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u12	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have 218 straight lines. I want to be given three minutes to perform. And one question to the representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u13	The question is not foreseen. Or put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u14	Yeah, well, give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u15	Please, three minutes. Turn on Lubinca.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to hear that this bill proposes to reform the military. In fact, however, it is only possible to find positions on how military commissioners are renamed territorial assembly and social support centers. And that's all, that's the only serious change. I have a rhetorical question, and I'm sure instead of really serious reform, they've made a form of reform just by renaming the centers -- and that's all. Once again, I would like the committee to comment after my speech. You're in the bill and you've told everyone publicly that this bill meets the NATO criteria that exist in these countries by a hundred percent. So I have a question. In the bill, you enter a clause on the appointment of reserve personnel without the announcement of mobilization. So what NATO countries have similar laws, similar rules that would allow absolutely no legal procedure, namely, a call for mobilization, a call for reservists? That's the first one. Next. In what NATO countries did you find that the recruitment of reserve workers without the declaration of mobilization could be done indefinitely? So you're giving the President the right in any way to advertise mobilization constantly. I mean, it's so impressive that you're going to pick up the same army personnel around the clock. Next. In what NATO countries have you found the standards by which you can recruit military personnel and decide where to send them? Either send a United Nations operation to the area or not send it. That is, instead of the positive points in this bill that were to be used to support the veterans of our war, the Russian-Ukrainian. Instead of socializing them to adjust them to a peaceful life. Those who want to participate in the following military activities should have legal grounds. Instead, you just turned the bill into a bill that you're going to take away from the same military. I'm sorry. So positive, as a person who keeps communicating in the area of operations of the United Forces with military personnel, neither I see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u17	Committee position. Dmitri Valeriyovich, are you insisting on a vote? Are you going to insist on voting on any rights? No, it's not. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u18	Thank you. There were many questions. This bill is complex, it changes to several dozen different legislative acts. He is eagerly awaited by both the Armed Forces and the military and our reserve. This is just the first stage in the formation of a complex system of both reserves and further territorial defenses. And I'll remind you that this is the formation of a military reserve. Creation of a system of reserve training. Creation of a single register with further processing with the Digital Registration Transformation Committee without the participation of military committees through the Diya plugin, etc. It's based on the military commissioners of really modern centers. And the examples of countries are: United States, Finland, Czech Republic, State of Israel, Austria In particular, I have details, we can discuss them properly. This is the system in most countries that work within the Alliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u19	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. What adjustments? Which ones will you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u20	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have many rights. I'm going to ask for two minutes so I can generalize them and put one to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u21	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the context of what my colleague Dmitri Lubinets said, I want to continue our position, our position. We're talking in the context of the previous issue of the front that we need to sort out the question of mobilization, and we need to look at it differently. At the same time, however, we propose not to introduce a new type of service, namely the reserve service at the time of the call without a call. The bill violates, in our opinion, the standards of social justice and makes it impossible for our veterans to return effectively to peaceful life, to obtain comprehensive psychological support, and that is very serious. The law does not provide for clear grounds for such an appeal by the reserve, apart from the existence of a special period. The introduction of the possibility of a repeated appeal without announcing the mobilization of citizens who have already fulfilled their civic and constitutional obligation to protect their homeland violates the principles of social justice, which we constantly stress. And the concept of the bill goes against the very idea of creating a reserve that was introduced for the availability of experienced veterans in the event of mobilization during the war. Moreover, the second reading of this law excludes the limitation of the term of a reservation during a special period by deleting a rule that the term cannot exceed six months. Thus, the term can now be unlimited. We believe that it is unacceptable to completely change the concept of the reserve and, in fact, unilaterally invalidate the guarantees and promises of the State to its defenders. So our concept is that we ask for amendment number 5, which basically generalizes all other amendments to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u23	Number 5 put to the vote? Committee position. Are we voting now? I'm betting on the vote number 5 of the Batenka People's Deputies. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:47]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Now it's the Cymbaluk. Now Scrooge, after this Tsymbaluk. And let's go to the vote. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u24	Thank you. I have three amendments to this bill. I'm asking you to give me two minutes, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u25	How many rights are you going to put on the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u26	I'll make two corrections and two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u27	The numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u28	1st and 146th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u29	1st, 146th, okay. Two minutes, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u30	Thank you. Colleagues, this first amendment is extremely important. It's the co-authorship of me and Lassie Vasilko from the Voice faction. But it's not really our correction. It's an amendment to veterans, it's an amendment to those people who have served on the front, both the first and second, and the third wave of mobilization, and the Legal Hundreds, who have prepared these things and these changes. You see, colleagues, with the President, of course, if necessary, there should be a right to call on the reservists, but it is those who have made contracts for such services. What does that mean? These are the people who have voluntarily signed the contract, who are regularly trained, which is extremely important, who get a professional salary for this. And most of all, they themselves volunteered to come to the military within a single day. Do We Need More People? There may be times when this will be necessary. And if more people are needed than contractors, then it should be mobilization. And this mobilization is confirmed in Parliament in a maximum of one day. We already had three waves of mobilization. And the next day, Parliament has always given the highest possible approval for more people. I am sure that Parliament will set up its shoulders and regulate it in the future. Three waves of mobilization have passed. But it is the Veteran community that says that the President cannot at any time call on women and men who are not contractors who have not signed contracts and who have served their years and have returned to normal life for 4-5 years. They returned often with injuries, returned often in difficult conditions, found work at last, and actually wanted to continue to adapt to peace. Unfortunately, the President's decision will put them in a position where they can't continue to work, because no employer will hire a person who can be mobilized at any time for an indefinite period. So, my friends, please support my first amendment. The president can call in the contractors' reserves. It's the right story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u31	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u32	Committee position: rejected. Let me explain why. This amendment runs counter to the main idea of legislative initiatives that have been developed on the demand of Ukraine's ORP decision on the summation of the introduction of military status in Ukraine. But, gentlemen, I ask you to avoid speculation and manipulation. This President's decision, I hope, will never be applied in a century of our history, because it only applies when there is no Parliament, for example, it has been destroyed. So, of course, mobilisation is possible only by decision of Parliament. This is an extra security that I repeat, I hope we will never apply it to. This bill on reform of the military commissioners. But let me remind you, this fuse is in most countries. For example, Finland, for example, had already introduced such a safety net in 2015 when it studied the experience of Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u33	I'm betting on the vote number one schkrum. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:45]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a technical payoff. Look, I'm going to have Cimbaluku speak now, and in the meantime they're going to try to solve the technical issues. Then let's move on to. Alona Ivanovna, we'll go back to your 146 and. The result of the first vote was not exactly affected, but Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk will now speak, and Rada, please answer the question. Three minutes, please, Cymbaluk. And if you insist on making any adjustments, please note. Don't insist, just a performance. Three minutes, please turn it on. Dear colleagues, it's now three minutes before they replace the pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There's a proposal to run a test vote, see if everyone works. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? I see you want to transfer your salary to the veterans' fund. I see, Anton Eduardoovich Polakov, I see. That's what we're gonna do. Can I have another written statement? Thank you. Ready? This is a test vote, I repeat. Ready to vote to see if everything works right now? Please support and vote. [[14:27:32]] For 245 Has everyone voted? I'm betting on the 146th Schrum vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:01]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Three minutes, Tsimbaluk, then we vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u35	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, I would like to respond to a question from a colleague in the Alona Shkrum faction that, as far as I am concerned, it is unacceptable to vote on bills that will never be applied for the next 100 years. It seems to me that this argument, as a minimum, is not ethical. In fact, this bill. Today, in the speech of the Chief of Staff, we heard requests regarding the need for this bill. It really is necessary. And the Soviet model's troops need to be reformed. But I agree with the colleagues who came to this, that in principle the bill only changes the name to the center. Perhaps the legislator has foreseen the adoption of other regulations by the Ministry of Defence, other normative instruments in order for the military to actually turn into centres, including reserve preparation, military accounting, and rehabilitation and employment of our veterans, because they have specific observations to this draft law. Next thing you know, with regard to the President's right to announce the mobilization of reserve personnel without the participation of the Supreme Council. The President's decision is that you can be summoned and sent to the office at any time during a special period. At the same time, the service boundary term, i.e. the deadline, unlike the original project edition, is not defined. Next. There is no self - function of the newly created body instead of the military, and special support, as a form of activity of these centres, is not indicated in the project. Another risky thing, according to this bill, the police will have the right to conduct so-called raids in order to deliver people who may avoid the subpoena to the military. But in general, the bill is needed because it makes all Ukrainian citizens, both men and women, remember that war is going on in the country. It is vital that by means of regulations it can be improved. And the "Paternity" team in this version supports and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u36	Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve specific issues of military duty and military accounting (registration No. 3553). Once again, the vote takes place by means of a sensory button. But important, once again, colleagues come up and ask you to remind them that the sensor button should first be pressed, then the "against," or "restraint" button must be held up until the end of the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:32:22]] For 256 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on Assistance to Insured Persons for the Period of Restrictive Anti-Epidemic Measures, implemented in order to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 (registration number 5300). Dear colleagues, a letter was received from all the MP factions and groups requesting that the matter be addressed immediately at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I am now making a proposal that came from all the MP factions and groups for immediate consideration of the bill (registration number 5300, 5300-1). Is there no objection? Please support and vote. [[14:33:42]] For 303 The decision is not taken. Decision taken, I'm sorry. Next question. We need to make a decision to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:34:12]] For 306 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until 30 March 2021 before the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[14:34:46]] For 310 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:35:08]] For 273 Decision taken. The Deputy Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Sviridenko Julia Anatoliyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u37	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! By the end of last year, we had actually foreseen possible new waves of coronavirus with you and predicted that we would have to introduce additional anti-epidemiological measures and, accordingly, propose programs to support small, medium-sized businesses. That's why at the end of December we offered a support package for a small, medium-sized enterprise, and some of these measures work today. But the president of Ukraine insists on strengthening aid to small businesses. In view of this, a bill was introduced on March 24th, proposing financial support to natural persons who are entrepreneurs, hired workers, activities that will be limited to a certain area being referred to the "red" zone, in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers regulation of Ukraine. The bill offers state aid from two sources: the first is the state budget, the guaranteed amount of 8,000 dollars, the second is at the expense of local budgets, only in the size of the local council's appropriate decision-making from the local budget. Last year, a similar program showed its high efficiency, 500,000 employees and individuals who were entrepreneurs, had the opportunity to apply on the Dia portal and receive appropriate assistance. Actually, we're proposing the same mechanism in this bill. The law takes effect from the day it was published. Ten days is given to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop appropriate draft regulations. But what I'm saying is that government officials are actually getting ready for this, and there's not going to be any pay-outs. Therefore, honourable colleagues, honourable national MPs, the adoption of this bill will provide an opportunity to support small, medium - size business, and the involvement of local authorities will help increase this support. Therefore, we ask that the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine be approved as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u38	The head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights is invited to attend. Three - year - old Galina Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u39	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On March 29, the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights discussed Bill 5300 on assisting insured persons during the period of implementation of restrictive anti-epidemic measures implemented to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19. The alternative law of Tyre 1 was also considered. The interested central executives support Bill 5300. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the State's efforts to financially support insured persons during restrictive measures and has made a number of observations and proposals on specific provisions of the bill. After discussing all the comments and suggestions made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies at its meeting, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. Bills 5300 and 5300-1 include in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we have now done. The other one. In line with article 114, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the first reading of the draft law rejects registration number 5300-1. With regard to the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, 5,300. The Committee, pursuant to article 114, paragraph 1, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals of the national deputies that have been discussed and are now on the Supreme Council’s website. That is, in the second part of article 2, paragraph 1, amend the words "April-May" and the corresponding months to take into account the proposals made by national deputies to include working pensioners and pensioners who have the status of FOP. Please put to the vote the proposed proposals and accept the bill registration number 5300 as a basis and in general the following technical and legal proceedings also in section II, paragraph 2, of the Final Regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u40	Needed to Be Discussed? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u41	I give you the word "Bilozer Larissa Mikolayovni."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u42	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u43	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues, your respectable Ukrainians! It's a really important initiative of the President and the state to provide support to entrepreneurs during the pandemic right from the State Budget. But let's face it. The bill also prescribes such a thing as assistance from local self - government, which is expected to supplement these 8,000 additional aids to at least make an average salary per district. Well, it actually takes at least two billion dollars of extra expenses from local budgets. And what I'm saying is that from the very beginning of the first and second waves, the local authorities were the first to be involved in the purchase of personal protection tools, the HlV, which is also. You took them out in March, remember, land tax, real estate tax, helping the business. And then we took away the proceeds, because there's a three-year benefit after not paying the only social contribution. Budgets only lose them accordingly. Yes, there are really community centers like this, where the district centers, we have Kiev, but what I'm saying is that if we look at Winnitzkin, where I'm from, where I'm from, I'm from, I'm saying that Winnzka, even with their budget, was able to pay only the extra money to the medics -- they do, and they buy the stations. Now the number one question is oxygen. We don't have enough manufacturers. And now they're not even able to have communities, and they're more than 70 percent, which are grantive, they have to buy stations now, and they're going to have to take care of it. So I think the initiative is right, it needs to be supported, but this moment with local self-government looks a little bit like abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u44	Ariev. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u45	Michael Prodius the priest, Jan and Vladimir Reznik's parents of 12 children, including 6 adopted, settlers from Makiyevka, Anna Lipkovsky the critic, Metropolitan Hmelnick Antony, Alexei John's photographer, Vladimir Gatsuk the child's anesthesiologist, Tetjana Lebedev the doctor, MEP of the European Solidarity Department at Zakarpatta, Valentin Kucherenko the deputy of the European Solidarity Committee at Cherkaschen the social worker, Alexander Siri the producer, all victims of COVID only in March, as well as thousands of other Ukrainians who simply did not expect from Green and his vaccine team, did not wait for help, did not wait for oxygen that is not enough in every hospital today. Who will suffer the penalty? When will a temporary commission of inquiry be set up in the Supreme Council to understand who is stealing medicine now, and who is going to take the money to the asphalt that needs to go to the oxygen? We put forward a proposal to hold an extracurricular session, not about the damaged door in Bankova, but to analyze: and so did the Supreme Council's resolution on the fight against COVID, which was adopted all together in the autumn of last year. It's interesting that this decree has not yet been given a vote in order to gather such an extraordinary session, two factions, "Sluts" and another faction that is now in negotiations with them in the majority of the time. Of course, we will support this vote, but we stress that it's not possible to translate from a sick person into a state budget into locals who are trying to support doctors today, to buy oxygen by money. And we want to hear from the government: and where were the 12 billion dollars allocated to support the FOP last year when? This money was received not by 1.5 million FOPs, but only by 500,000 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And it actually does.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u46	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, while the developed countries are starting to open up business, stop the elbows, children are going to kindergartens and schools, we have the toughest demands today. Why? Because those countries that started the vaccine on time, today they're going through COVID-19. This bill, which we are voting on today, is certainly necessary. But we can accept it forever, for every year in the autumn and spring, Ukraine will announce the lockdown. Because today the minister sitting in his chair is not willing to overcome COVID-19. My phone is red today from people who can't put their parents in the hospital. I'm sure you've got that kind of appeal, too. There are no places in the hospitals. Yesterday, 13 children lost their parents, and they remained orphans. Because they died of COVID-19, they weren't given medical attention. Every day we have 300 people killed by COVID, and our minister is unable even to organize vaccination. You know, we don't have vaccines in fact anymore, because 200,000 people who have been vaccinated need a second dose, and half a million who Stepanov brought to Ukraine are almost exhausted. When the next vaccines come; what they will be; where they will be the number -- none of you know. And the minister probably doesn't even know that. As early as December, I registered a national vaccination plan. I'm asking you to take it to the hall at last, because there are specific steps to be taken. As far as this bill is concerned. 10 billion dollars planned last year have not been used. Only 2 were paid. We have specific comments on this bill. First. There is a need to make changes so that not only the first CWED is taken into account but the first five. We need to introduce a moratorium on business checks during the lockdown, and we need to allow local authorities to lower taxes on business. And we're going to propose these changes to make this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u48	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u49	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! There is a logical question: Why not the government, which is his business? And they're losing their subjectivity. Yesterday, the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights had a discussion, like for me, on this bill. With the introduction of MPs’ rights, the committee’s decision was announced from the rostrum today. In fact, the Fatherland faction will support such an initiative. But, dear colleagues, why 8,000, not at least the average national salary? The next is the risk, indeed the local authorities – the state must guarantee. Local budgets don't last long. One will stand out and the other won't. The third risk. The bill provides, as it did in December, that only those employees whose employer paid the social contribution were hired. Is it the employee’s fault that his employer failed to pay in the last quarter? Not guilty, I guess. It's also a risk that not all of the citizens who are going to be subject to these payments will get them. And whether the local budget can pay them back. I'd like to go to the government. Doctors don't pay more than a month. 2.5 billion debt. Government, listen to the cries of those who are hospitalized, that's their main income today, and they can't get it! The same is true when a child is born and other social benefits are paid. The "Paternity" team will support this bill and ask for it, and it requires the government to be more active when it comes to social protection during this difficult period of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u50	All those who wish to speak? It's a motive batenko. Then we go to the vote. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, you know, when we want to, when the authorities want to make up for something, we don't need to take it first. Do not take away the opportunity to earn money from citizens. We see a situation where the moratorium on business checks (FOPs) was virtually cancelled. Yesterday we walked with colleagues to Midan Independence. The FOPs are still standing and protesting, and no one can hear them. It's also part of what's called "lokdown" and the ability of people to survive. I want to separate the pyar from the possibilities of real help to the people contained in this bill. And everything about real help to people, we support, and everything about unrealistic, we need to think about what the government wants to take responsibility for aiding local budgets. Because we know that the authorities claimed one thing, and the desire to help local budgets is unrealistic -- 2 billion dollars. So let's, by separating the grain from the half, vote for a real bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u52	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. One more question. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Assistance to Insured Persons for the Period of Restrictive Anti-Epidemic Measures to Prevent the spread of Acute Respiratory Disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 (registration No. 5302). Ready to vote? Ready? 5300. 5,300, yes. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:51:36]] For 307 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law on Assistance to insured Persons for the Period of Restrictive Anti-Epidemic Measures, introduced to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 (registration number 5300). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:52:20]] For 312 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children to provide assistance in relation to pregnancy and childbirth and the effective use of budgetary resources in the financing of a one-time natural aid package for the child (registration No. 5064). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:53:05]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what's wrong? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Motovílovac Andri Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, this law on the following. For the first time, the baby package will be purchased through the ProZorro system. The end value of the baby package will be determined at the auction, not at the minimum of living, and the transparent auction will determine the end value. Will the quality of the baby's package fall? No, it's not. Because it's going to be written in technical terms. Why ProZorro? Before that, I bought a baby package from the UNOPS International. We thank them for the purchase. But at the further cost of taxpayers, we want to use accounting and transparently. I ask you to support this bill. It is highly awaited by the State Procurement Organization, the Ministry of Social Policy, in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u54	The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Kravchuk Eugenia Mikhailnovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! Dear Chief! The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered Bill 5064 at its meeting on March 3, this year. It's about that bill that's a real effect that you can literally hold in your hands. "The package of the baby" is taking care of the state for the young family and during the pregnancy of the woman and after the baby is born. It is important for the legislative mechanism to provide two things at the same time – the quality of the package and the rational use of public budget funds. This bill opens the way for purchases through ProZorro tenders. It's through the transparent competition procedure that we can buy the best goods at the lowest possible price today through ProZorro. The bill proposes to allocate three minimum living minimums for children under the age of 6. On the average, the contents of the package would cost up to 30 percent more to young parents. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 5064 as a basis and, in general, taking into account such amendments to its text, as noted in the Committee’s conclusion. Paragraph 2 of part 2 of the second bill reads as follows: " For the organization of budgetary funding, the cost of a one-time natural aid package for a child is three-size minimum subsistence allowance for children under the age of 6 years, set by law on the date of publication of competitive procurement procedures, and does not fall within the scope of the aid provided for in part one of this article." Thank you. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u56	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. If someone doesn't want to speak, you can stay out of it, we'll get over it. Everybody wants it, see. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u57	I beg your pardon. Mr. Head, may I have a word with the Prince's Santa Claus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, this bill first shows how professional the Ukrainian government works. When we talk about not buying vaccines, it's not just the minister's responsibility, it's the whole government's responsibility. Because the first person: The president, the head of government, is on a vaccine deal. When we talk about paying 8,000 dollars and putting some of these liabilities on local budgets, the government had to carry out administrative reform in such a way that these budgets were viable, not defective, as in half of the newly created insurmountable communities. When we talk about this bill, the government had to anticipate and understand when the budget was being formed. So, of course, our "European Solidarity" faction will support this bill, but only with the comments that "the baby's package," its value is calculated not on the day of the budget formation, not on January 1st, but as the committee's deputy head said at the time of the tender. Because the cost of living may change over the course of the year. In this form, once again by correcting the government's mistakes, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u59	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, indeed, we know very well how often good initiatives in our country turn into problems for their citizens. We've already adopted a bill that allowed us to unlock what happened in Minsk. It was simply torn down by more than 1 billion tenders for 300,000 babies. We don't know who's to blame, whether it's Minsoc or the customer who set the cloudy demands or the big purchases or the participants who blocked it or the Antimonopoly Committee. But the fact is that we had to adopt a bill in an aura instead of a government in October so that the UN administration would still buy those packages. In fact, as of today, parents also have the right to receive these packages, to monetaryize them more precisely, to open the card and get 5,000 instead of the package, and to be loaded in local stores. But the thing is, really, we need this bill very much. Because that'll make it possible. First of all, 5,000, that's not the analogue of a package. Because the package, it's 1.5 times what it really is. And this will allow parents to still have seven and a half thousand opportunities to buy what they want. But I want to point out that there are even certain abuses today. I'm going to go to the law enforcement agencies when stores charge, make fictitious checks, and issue cash. So I'd like you to pay attention to that, and still, to Minsoca buy these baby boxing to still provide the children with these baby boxing directly. So our MP group will support and welcome this initiative to the ProZorro purchase of the baby package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u61	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u62	Thank you. Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u63	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u64	Irina Konstankevich, Wolin, 23th constituency. Dear Society, the Future Group, of course, will support this bill because we believe that there is a need to support young families and especially where children are born. But at the same time, we want to stress that this is just a dot solution to the point problem. In fact, this is a complex issue and needs to be considered in the context of the prospects of young Ukrainian families. We expect that the government will still offer a comprehensive programme to support young Ukrainian families, because they need more than just help with a package of babies, they need to understand what they need in Ukrainian society, that they should have jobs, that they should have stable wages, and many other issues that remain unresolved for young Ukrainian families. So because of the acuteness of the issue, we are now supporting the bill as a point issue. But we hope that the government will come to a constructive solution to this issue and offer us a solution soon. The Future Group supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u65	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u66	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please give the floor to my colleague, Evtushka Sergei Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u67	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. What do governments of countries that experience their own demographic indicators do? They clearly provide mechanisms for State support to stimulate the financing of each family for the birth of children. What is happening in Ukraine? I can give an example of a national government when in 2007 the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, along with the government to improve the demographic situation in the country, envisioned a one-time support for the birth of a child. What do we see today? Today we actually see in the introduction of this draft law that the government is trying, along with the Ministry of Social Policy, to minimize those copies that we've, in principle, already voted in the session room and have given mothers who have given birth to children the opportunity to get in the form of a package of babies. So, dear colleagues, let's tell the truth that we have article 7 of the Budget Code, more faithfully, the Ukrainian Budget Act provides for a clear minimum of three times a year: 1 January, 1 July and 1 December. And I'm going to make it clear that if we get this size of a baby package on January 1st, we're definitely going to be those kids that are born after January 1st, July, December, we're going to cut the cost of these purchases. So let's not manipulate, let's make the government work, because it's the Ministry of Social Policy that has, if it's necessary, to run tenders once a quarter of the time, but so that mothers don't lose money on the purchase data. Thank you. We'll support the babies and mothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. There's no objection, is there? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children on the provision of assistance in relation to pregnancy and childbirth and the effective use of budgetary resources in the financing of a one-time natural aid package for the child (registration No. 5064). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:05:25]] For 307 Decision taken. I am voting for the adoption proposal as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposal and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State aid to families with children on the provision of assistance in relation to pregnancy and childbirth and the effective use of budgetary resources in the financing of a one-time natural aid package for the child (registration No. 5064). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:06:10]] For 307 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending Appendices 3 and 4 of the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 to ensure the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine (registration Nos. 5194, 5197, 5197-1, 5197-2). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. I'm sorry. We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[15:07:09]] For 257 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote [[15:07:32]] For 251 Decision taken. Black lobsters? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Artem Olegovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u70	Good afternoon! Thank you, Mr. Head. Honourable National Deputies, Draft Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 3 and No. 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on the provision of services to the Ministry of Agriculture and Politics of Ukraine, this is primarily a matter of justice, since it is the National Deputies of the Agrarian Committee that made the first proposal to secure the budget of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. Since we chose an agrarian politician three months ago and the Ministry of Agar Politics was created, we didn't get the money. And it's only from the submission of the National Deputies that we have the ability and the chance to obtain a budget for the full functioning of the Ministry. But I'm sorry, so far there have been two alternatives that we and our colleagues in the agrarian committee consider to be charity. And the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is a basic budget that is balanced and compromised. Because the agrarian industry in the state is 18 percent of GDP, and there is no way to keep the Ministry's main law, namely the budget. So, dear colleagues, before you push the button, I ask you to think about what kind of budget you really want to accept for an agricultural country. Thank you very much and please support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u71	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Halimon Paul Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u72	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, your opinion is on an alternative draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 3 and No. 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on ensuring the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine (Registration No. 5197-1). This bill has been developed in cooperation with agrarians for the proper functioning of the restored Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food in order to support agriculture. The project defines the amount of funding from Ukraine's state budget in 2021 for the implementation of its functions by the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. The project proposes to support farmers through the established general funding of a financial support programme to support farmers by increasing the funding of the farm lending programme to nearly half a billion dollars. And also review funding under the "Organization and regulation of institutions in the agro-industry system and the activities of the Agrarian Fund" programme to increase funding for the activities of the Ukrainian National Fund for Agricultural Support and its regional offices. Let me explain why this is necessary. Unfortunately, today's government budget for so-called "free farmers' loans" provides zero dollars. The main mass of Ukrainian agriculture in 39,000 farms out of 50,000 registered are small farmers whose farms have up to 500 hectares of land. Banks do not lend them credit because they are not the only financial aid instrument, but they are the Ukrainian State Fund for Farm Support. Also, a loan guarantee fund for farmers has not yet been established. Before opening up the land market, we're actually taking out small and medium-sized farms of tools to buy this land. So by hurting for the speediest restoration of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food, we are prepared to support the alternative bill number 5197-1, -2, which will support the agrarian ministry itself, but only under the obligation of the minister of agropolitics, that after the creation of the Minagro will be reviewed the distribution of funds and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u73	Thank you, Paul Vitaliovich. The word is given to the author of an alternative bill to the Ukrainian national MP Roxolani Andriyovni Podlasi. Please, Roxolano Andriyovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I certainly join everything that has been said before about the need to finance the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. On December 28, the government formed a ministry, but it has not yet received any funding, and today we must change it, but taking into account the interests of both ministries, and economic development, and agrarian politics. The main bill, 5197, proposes that 87 million dollars, including expenses, be transferred from Mineconomy to the Ministry’s apparatus of 65 million dollars, and 21.8 million dollars from other costs. The 5197-2 alternative bill proposes to transfer from Mineconomy to Minagro a slightly smaller amount, 72.8 million dollars, which is 14 million dollars less in total. Unfortunately, at the time of the adoption of the basic bill, 5197, the Ministry of Economics will lose the necessary expenses, primarily on the wages of the Ministry's apparatus. I believe that as the Supreme Council and I, as a representative of the Economic Development Committee, cannot allow such a situation, so it is proposed to support the alternative bill 5197-2. And as far as I know, he agrees with all the interested ministries, and Minagro, and the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance, I think that's exactly what the budget committee will say. So I ask my colleagues to support Bill 5197-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u75	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. The word is given to the national deputy, the head of the budget subcommittee of the Disturbed Forest Valentinovni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u76	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies and Invitations. The Committee on Budget Affairs has considered Bills 5197 and two alternatives to it, aimed at regulating financial security for the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. The bill proposes to appoint the Minagropolitics as the main cost manager and to allocate budget allocations to them by redistributing the corresponding costs. In general, given the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to form, reorganize the coordination of the work of executive organs, the government itself should initiate such a proposal. Bills have been analyzed and I would like to point out that 5197 and 5197-2 are balanced about budget spending, and Bill 5197-1 contains inconsistencies based on aggregates. GNEU notes that there is no sound financial and economic justification, but points out that legislation can be adopted if a positive conclusion is reached by the government. The Ministry of Finance makes specific observations on the need for technical legal rights. In doing so, Bill 5197-2 is supported without notice: Minegropolitics, Mineconomy and Mindocyl, as agreed between them. Taking into account the need for a prompt solution to the question of the proper functioning of the Minegropolitics, the budgetary committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the bills listed should be included in the agenda of the day session as a result of the first reading of the adoption of Bill 5197-2 on the basis and generally as a law taking into account the editorial and technical legal proposals set out in the Committee's letter of credit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lopushanski Andrija Jaroslavovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u78	May I have the floor to Klimpush-Cincadze?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u79	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, you're beautiful! You're demonstrating an absolutely bronze movement as the only means of government governance is what's going on today. First, the authorities applauded themselves, what was she doing? It brought together different ministries. And she promised that she would simply take such a fast - paced home and fix the entire economic situation in the country. Now, with the same argument, you work hard, imitating violent activity, to separate these ministries. Colleagues, you can finally change your approach to state institutions. Because you represent an authority that just disrespects state institutions, and you think of authoritarianism as the most important factors of influence, you think nepotism, you think it's a special personal intervention. I can't understand, read even if you want to do some research on the same Valery Bakery, look at what our friends from the European Commission say, which, I quote, are saying, "Today in Ukraine, in the leadership of Ukraine, personal leadership predominates institutional leadership and this killer acts on structural reform." Colleagues, you're proud in this room, haven't you voted in favour of farmers recently, and you've sent them all where? To the Ministry of Economics with the documents, and now you're proposing to create another ministry and redirect them, so they won't get the support they promise. You know, math has this rule, and you remember it from school, and you don't change the amount from shifting it, especially when it's zero. This is what's happening today, because you're just continuing to lie to people, you're continuing to do a painful economy at the same time, you're hurting citizens, and you're doing a painful country. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u81	The word is given to National Deputy Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u82	Dear friends, good afternoon, colleagues! This is an algorithm for action that the government has proposed and the corresponding ministry is now in transition, we need to accelerate this process by working on an agrarian committee, working on that document by a budget committee, and I don't think we need to waste time, support the proposed draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Igor Fedorovich Molotka, Ukrainian National Deputy, is a member of the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the expert from the agrarian direction of Sergei Petrovich Labazyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u85	Please, Sergey Petrovich Labazük.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, we've heard statements from this rostrum today that it's both a bill and an important one, and we've heard that it's a technical bill. But let's face it, in the country of Ukraine, where an agro-industrial complex is so powerful, there could be no apriors to stop the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. We saw how this ended in 2020, when our agro-industry complex was not properly represented in the international arenas, when we gradually lost markets, and it was important for us to also certify our production, and bring legislation to European standards, and so on. And today, it's very important that early in 2021, it's good that this enlightenment took place, and they returned the work of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. And it's been four months since the Ministry's work was updated, but it hasn't provided a key resource -- it's money for work. Clearly, we need to adopt a bill today and allow the Ministry to work fully to ensure that the day before, at the beginning of the solitude and agriculture, and the small farmers, large enterprises, understand clearly what the policy will be, which will be the position that support can count on agriculture. Again, we realize that this year the Law on the Market of the Earth is coming into force. And should there be a full - time platform today, a round table for conversation? Yes. So our group, we support Bill 5197. With regard to alternative bills, I believe that these bills have a deviation from the key substance. And if we're talking about allocating, for example, ten million dollars today for culture, for other things -- yes, we do, but the key task is to restore the ministry and allow it to function fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now invite the national deputy Eutushka. But I would like to ask, Will there be others who would like to speak? They will be. Who else is there? I see "Trust." Then we have four minutes to go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. And I give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u88	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Please pass the word to your colleague Ivchenk Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u89	Vadim Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u90	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we are now fighting heroically for the creation of the Department of Agrarian Politics, which you have eliminated. My first speech here was at the time of the appointment of the past government to the President of Ukraine, and we warned of the consequences of eliminating such an important ministry. My colleagues, as a result, I'll tell you, today, the production of plant products has dropped by 14 percent, the volume of agricultural products sold in general has dropped by 12 percent. Colleagues, investments in agriculture, both domestic and external, fell by 40 percent. Farmers also set aside agricultural funds for the purchase of land. Now they're not spending any more time updating production and creating new animal complexes. Colleagues, as a seed for today’s day, have to say, milk processing companies are beating at alarm. We have a lot of imported milk, dry milk today. Boroshnomels are being beaten because they have taken out grain, fellow workers, and have not left here to keep at least a little price, and the prices for food products, please take a look. Did the Ministry of Economics help our agrarians during the drought? No, colleagues, no help. And it's very important that we understand that we haven't won any markets in the world in order to sell our agro-food products. And finally, colleagues, let me tell you something like this, the law you're adopting, 2194, it's going to completely destroy organic production. Those organics that have certified their land for organic production, you give it to those who pay more money. And the animals, they're also at risk. Think about it. And we vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u91	Who else wants to speak? I see, Mikola Ivanovich. Who else? Now it's a final performance. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Puppy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you all to support Bill 5197-2 on Amendments to Appendix 3 and 4 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which will allow at least partially to restore the functioning of the Ukrainian Ministry of Agriculture's Agrarian Policy. I want to say that the law is purely technical and this law, which has been prepared by the people's deputies, although such a bill has to be passed exclusively by the Government, to prepare Minfin, is a requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine (arts. 113 and 116). But what I'm saying is that as we heroically destroyed the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the Ministry of Industry, which provides almost 40 percent of the foreign exchange -- 18 billion -- the Ministry, which gives quite a lot of the gross domestic product. And even those guys who were standing near the rostrum, it was beautiful, but most of you, the reverend "ministers of the people," voted for the destruction of this ministry. Today we're doing it in a new way, but we're doing it again, we're deceiving everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u93	Let's go to the vote. First question. Please tell me the committee is recommending for the whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. All of it. I'll bet only on the basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 to ensure the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine (Registration No. 5197-2). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:27:26]] For 266 Decision taken. Shorten periods? I am voting on the proposal, in part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, on the reduction of half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals, and on the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5197-2). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:28:11]] For 257 Decision taken. The next issue is the bill (registration number 4020) and its alternatives to the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:28:50]] For 251 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Panaiotide Svetlana Mikolayovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u94	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The draft law is designed to identify a list of those enterprises that will not be privatised or partially privatized. The bill is a compromise decision of the government to consider the Supreme Council and it proposes to approve lists of property rights that are not subject to privatization. In general, this is 659 enterprises that are not privatized, statutory capital of enterprises that can be privatized in 49 percent, is 9. There are still 3 lists of privatization sites that can be converted into farm societies. The bill will, in our view, contribute to investing in Ukraine’s economy, to preserving investment restrictions in the market environment, to ensuring that property rights are truly important for the development of enterprises from an unwarranted and unwarranted and contrary to the interests of the Ukrainian people, privatization and preservation for future generations. Thank you very much. We propose a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u95	National Deputy of Ukraine Negulewski Igor Petrovich You don't? National deputy of Ukraine, Podlas Roxolan Andriyevna. At that time, the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u96	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! Thank you so much, I think it's time to pick up the stones. The stones, which, in principle, were very fair to us from different angles because we in 2019 had cancelled the list of strategic enterprises banned from privatization and had not been able to force the then government to hold back the promise and send a new list for three months for approval by the Supreme Council, for which I personally apologize. It's not been three months since then, it's been 17. And this list is finally in the room, and we have the opportunity to correct this error and accept a new list. Correct not because we think the state is a better owner or a stronger owner, and in positions the directors of the company suddenly turn into super-efficient managers. And just because I'm convinced that we need to take this list just because a state that doesn't understand what enterprises are strategic for it doesn't have a strategy like that. So now we have the opportunity to return the strategy first of all to government ownership. I ask all factions to take this opportunity and to support this bill in the first reading. Do we have confidence that this bill is perfect? No, it's not. Because we did not see certain cultural objects from the Ministry of Education. We were surprised to learn that another Department of Profiles had excluded about six weapons specs from this list, apparently counting on them to be privatized. We did not find any other objects. But the choice of whether to send this list back to Kabmin, as provided for by valid legislation, or whether to enable the Council to complete it between first and second reading, is for us to choose between operationality and percentage. So please support the draft Law 4020, which was sent by the government and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u97	Thank you. Please sign two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u98	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I want to agree that this bill is really important, but it's long-suffering, and unfortunately, it's not perfect. In general, what needs a list of objects that cannot be privatized at the level of the law now to be established? Simply put, this list is a kind of safeguard against loss and control and efficiency. And according to what's most important is the component of national security, which is what the head of the committee was talking about, the quality of the expertise and the jobs of those experienced workers. The other one. Such censuses are not the norm for developed economies with a permanent economy. There are countries, many where there are no state enterprises, and effective governance and jobs are very large. Third. The experience of developed countries shows that this process cannot be fast. Four. When we talk about four blocks, there are many comments by GNEU that must be taken into account between the first and the second readings. As long as there is not enough reason to be optimistic about the state’s strategic exit to open stock sales, especially those with 100 percent government power today. It's about being able to sell 49 percent of the shares. And the fifth. The goal is to get these companies to international capital markets is right. But today it is difficult to do this in a period of time when there is no clear and well-founded strategy for potential stock sales, no clear system of influence, and no guarantee of justification. The European Solidarity faction will be supported in the first reading, but between the first and the second, we must ask that the positions of the four GNEU blocks be taken into account. This is important to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u99	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u100	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, honourable colleagues, certainly, the issue of managing state-owned enterprises, more specifically, which belong to the state in any part, is an extremely important issue for any country. For almost 30 years, Ukraine has been trying to handle businesses with ownership. Unfortunately, it's become food for tens, hundreds, or thousands of people in Ukraine who have become rich in these state-owned enterprises. In fact, the state has won nothing from leaving thousands of businesses, mostly with small shares ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent. In fact, it does not affect the decision to run these businesses, it simply imitates its activities. So we support the issue that we need to put order in place, we need to shorten the list of enterprises that are not privatized, we need to leave the state in fact only strategic enterprises that have an impact on the economy that have an impact on the security of the state. And all the rest, that set of businesses that do normal market operations, just put them on sale, open international auctions, and let the owners who buy them come in and show order. The state has to think about the strategic issues: "Energotoma", "Urzalznica" is all those enterprises that really shape politics in Ukraine economically. And secondly, the state has to be involved in economic recovery programs in Ukraine. This is industrial support through the use of credit. It is creating conditions for billions of dollars of investment to enter the industry in Ukraine. For businesses to be able to borrow at a minimum interest rate for a long period of time when new jobs are created, to buy new equipment. And then the resurgence of the Ukrainian industry will begin. And so today, the state, as a "partner in the blue," is sitting with thousands of businesses, with small stocks. It doesn't do anything, it doesn't invest, it doesn't let any investor invest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u101	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mikhailovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, we are all well aware that the President promised the first law to submit to Parliament the law on the peoples of the land. It's about referendums to ask people what to do in the country. And he said no law would be passed without people saying "yes" or "against." But instead of passing one of the first laws -- the Peoples' Act, the referendum -- they passed a law to cancel the list of objects that were not allowed to be privatized. You know what this is. This means that without the people’s permission, they started selling out all our strategic enterprises. Here I'm going to take a little break and say that there is no country in the world that has at least 25 percent of its state ownership of strategic objects that are able to protect the security of the state, plan its strategy, influence geopolitical processes. Ukraine, after all this is happening now, will have no property left. I can tell you that this law, which is introduced, just so you know, excludes the ban on the privatization of enterprises that do geological research and the development of oil-, gaseous naphtha for the purpose of exploration and exploration of oil and gas crops. Only the President said, let's get all the genealogies back, and now all the control over the genealogies will practically be distributed to the right and to the left. And that's also the gas storage capacity. So what will our gas shelters now sell from the hammer? Why such a law? This is definitely unacceptable. And here everything about food security is for sale, all of our transportation equipment, two of our national banks, is about the state-run Savings and Ukrexim, and much more. Of course, after a year and a half, the list is being reviewed, we support it, but we have to be serious about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u103	Dry Alexander. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u104	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, on more than one occasion in this rostrum, I emphasized the need to check out all the adopted businesses that are in ruins today. In every area, not Ukraine, but ruins. Farms, flooded mines, milk factories, oil factories, carnivores, people are left with jobs, nothing is created. Recently, our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Sukhov, conducted an interfractional parliamentary association, such as ecology in the Luhansk region. They were flashing their eyes at who was meeting, why they didn't check out Lysican Soda, a strategic enterprise that was destroyed, and the land reclamation didn't happen. Fifteen thousand families have been dumped on the sidelines. The city of Lysichansk was built under these enterprises, and today it is begging. Also, the Linas company, which can process oil and provide Ukrainian fuel for our farmers today. Zero! Stop! Fifteen thousand families were also dumped on the sidelines. It's a good thing they haven't cut this company yet. City in the city, and nursery there, and pools there, and so on. RTI, resinotechnics plant. Back to Lysichansk. Today, it poisons people, poisons ecology, no one is responsible for anything, to whom this enterprise belongs today, cut out in the vandal way, no one is responsible. Today we're talking again about privatization. We need to be careful and careful to see that in this list of enterprises and to add more businesses that can't be "acquired" to those who destroy these enterprises tomorrow, cut them into scrap metal, leave Ukrainians on the sidelines hungry, cold, homeless, and people go away again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u105	Thank you. Is there anyone who would like to speak out of motive? Roxanne Andrienne Podlas. The law wasn't introduced, so you're going to do it for a reason, aren't you? Please. No one else wants to do it for a reason? Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we have enough safeguards to control privatization. First, article 4 of the Privatisation Act prohibits the sale of many types of objects. These are critical infrastructures, automobiles, railways, oil and gas pipelines, nuclear power stations, and much more. We're not allowed to privatize space enterprises, Olympic bases and education facilities. We have control over privatisation from the Supreme Council Committee on Economic Development. And between the first and second readings, any MP can add to the list in Bill 4020, along with the Economic Development Committee, any enterprise he considers strategic. So please support us in our first reading and work with us on our second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Bill 4020 is proposed for your consideration before the vote. You just heard the positions of the authors and the committee and your colleagues in the hall. Let's move on to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (Registration No. 4020). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:45:25]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the day’s agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Detining of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens by introducing a voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and paying a one-time budget meeting (registrations 5153 and alternatives). Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that at a meeting with the faction leaders and groups, it was agreed that this is the question that we are considering: each faction's presentation has two minutes, two minutes, two minutes, two minutes for the performance. The next two bills we vote without discussion, they are linked. Is there no objection? I'm going to put this motion to a vote. Please back her up and vote. It's an offer. Please support and vote. [[15:46:58]] For 297 Decision taken. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u108	Thank you. Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! I would like to quote you in part of the Ukrainian President's program: "All these years, the authorities have been artificially creating a situation in which it was virtually impossible for an entrepreneur to conduct business honestly in Ukraine. So we're going to start a once-in-a-lifetime "zero declaration" for business. Each businessman will be able to declare and legalize his income by 5 percent. Having gone through economic purgatory, everyone will be given a chance in the future to conduct business honestly in Ukraine." To carry out this President's promise, I will report to you on a draft law (registration number 5153) introduced by the President of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of Childhood and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget. The bill is aimed at creating conditions for transparent economic activity, detining the economy and involving additional capital in Ukraine's economy. The project proposes that taxpayers be given the opportunity to self-correct past violations by voluntary declaration of assets. One year from 1 July 2021 until 1 July 2022, it is planned to launch a campaign of voluntary single-declaration of the assets of natural persons with State guarantees in part of the exemption of declarants from administrative and criminal liability for non-payment of taxes and income from the source of such assets, provided that the collection is paid out of such a declaration if it is differentiated according to the type of assets subject to taxation in Ukraine and was not taxed in breach of tax and monetary legislation during any of the tax periods of 1 January 2021, respectively, 2.5 and 9 per cent respectively. To sum up, the comprehensive implementation of the measures proposed by the project will provide additional transparency and create conditions for the proper payment of taxes by Ukrainian citizens in the future, increase the overall level of tax culture of citizens. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I am asking you to support the legislative process.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u109	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nesterenko Kirilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u110	Good afternoon, dear chairman and colleague! The history of capital amnesty in Ukraine has lasted for many years, and the number of those who fail to pay taxes, according to the Ukrainian State Tax Service, is about six million. At the same time, Ukraine’s shadow economy, according to official reports by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Agriculture, has reached nearly 40 percent. In view of this, I present to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Childhood of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a single collection to the budget (Registration No. 5153-1). The project is an alternative to Project 5153, submitted by the President of Ukraine. The main difference between an alternative project is relatively smaller rates, the sum of a single voluntary declaration, which we believe should create more attractive conditions, and then a powerful motivation for detining income, filling the domestic economy with financial resources. The bill proposes that the sums of a single voluntary declaration be determined at the rate of 3 per cent for monetary values in Ukrainian banks, 5 per cent for monetary values and other assets abroad, two and a half percent for the value of Ukrainian government bonds. Declining the zero-declaration rate is a key point. Because if the rate is too high, people will find different ways to avoid tax. In other words, Ukrainians are opening up their incomes, and in exchange the state guarantees that they will not be persecuted for this, that is, full exemption from legal responsibility. Only on the basis of such a social agreement can effective and honest tax amnesty be possible between the State and the citizens. As a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u111	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u112	Nikolainko Andry, "The Fatherland" faction. So, colleagues, the reason that we've been forced to submit an alternative bill to the Presidential because it's a nice and necessary initiative for Ukraine to tax amnesty, or sometimes called zero declaration, amnesty capitals, it can be implemented in a way that you started a gaming business when there were big expectations, in fact, it didn't work, coming to the budget minimal. And the very main goal that is being pursued is that the funds that have been spent abroad will come back and be directed towards the development of Ukraine's economy. So we've improved the Presidential Bill a little bit and we've proposed our alternative. But if we go back to history, we were registered in September 2019, and so was I in coauthority, a bill on this issue. But he didn't come to the hall because we only have a bill that initiates either the President or a fraction of the majority. It's a bad practice because it's important to look at the essence of the bill and its expertise. If you're talking about differences. So what's the difference between our bill and our bill? First of all, we're proposing to reduce the discriminatoryness of bets. Because, according to the Presidential Bill, there are five, the money that is taxed abroad is nine. If we leave this idea, it will be more convenient for those who hide their money abroad to return them to Ukraine in other ways, through bonds or a number of other ways that will be cheaper than the proposed rate, which means that it will not work. We're saying that the minimum non-taxable asset should be 1 million dollars. Who are we talking about, who is this bill? This bill is actually about the middle class, if you've been able to work, earn, but not to declare $30,000, so let's say you have to give it a chance to do it. And I remind you that this is selective justice, and this is going to apply to more ordinary citizens, because politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u113	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, the amnesty of capitals is also needed, and examples of normal amnesty, you can see either in Indonesia or in Argentina. But unfortunately, there are many examples in the world economy when amnesty didn't work. Georgia or Kyrgyzstan are countries that have implemented similar measures and have not worked. Why? First of all, lack of confidence in authority. Trust in power in the economy consists of simple things, first and foremost, trust in judicial reform. I will not stop saying that the main problem for foreign investment right now is the lack of the rule of law and that's why Voice insists on judicial reform. The second is trust in law enforcement. We've all voted on the Economic Security Bureau bill, but it has to be created, and it has to prove that there is trust in it. That's why there's a bill in this logic from the Voice faction. First. We're transferring a year of amnesty capital to make the Economic Security Bureau work so that we can carry out a real judicial reform. The other one. We're cleaning up the possibility of avoiding tax checks by giving a zero-declaration – it shouldn't be a fine for virtuous taxpayers. And third, what's very important, and what's worked in many countries, we're giving you the possibility of a pay-out, so that those people who still want to spend amnesty capital have the opportunity not immediately, but in three years to pay enough money to the budget. All of these proposals are set out in our alternative law, and it's what we're going to support in the first reading. And hopefully, together with the committee, we'll be working on a bill on capital amnesty to really work, like in Argentina or Indonesia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u115	The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! For 30 years, Ukrainian citizens were forced to stay, work, and receive income in the shadows. They got a salary in envelopes, or they got business income. This is how the economy of Europe's poorest and richest country, the richest of its resources, its people and the poorest of its shadow economy, the largest shadow economy in Europe worked. We understand that those traditions are tax evasions that we have become incompatible with a wealthy, rich, civilized country, and we understand that we have to stop them. And the law that was proposed today for consideration by the President of Ukraine was supported by the committee and recommended in the adoption room in the first reading. It's one of the steps that we've taken since childhood -- such as our anti-offshoring law, which we voted with you for the first time in this room a year ago, such as the Fiscalization Act, changes to financial monitoring, and many other decisions we made. What's he talking about? It's about getting into the white for our citizens, getting money out of the shadows, and making this money work for our citizens. Indeed, this tax amnesty is voluntary and citizens make their own decisions whether to participate or not. It's not about the "white money" that citizens received with taxes. And there's a minimum set out in a bill that amnestys independently of making a declaration, officials are forbidden to participate in that amnesty. Please support the president's bill with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u117	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. It'll take up to two minutes. Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u118	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. This is certainly a very positive initiative that has, how I feel a lot of support in society. And certainly, the implementation of this legislative initiative should bring serious benefits to both the State as a whole and the Ukrainian people. I'd like to draw my colleagues' attention to the second reading, because we need to minimize some unnecessary bureaucratic barriers to these processes. And my colleagues are paying attention to different examples, so I'll give you an example. It's not about amnesty of capital, of course, but just about tax voluntarily, and I'm going to give my example, for example, of how I rent housing as a national deputy of Ukraine, and the person in whom I rent housing has difficulty in just paying the rent honestly for the rent of housing. I mean, it's surprising that we create obstacles ourselves so that people can pay taxes in a normal and honest way when they want to. These obstacles need to be removed by bureaucrats in order to minimize, or ideally remove, to make it easy to realize this right -- to declare and pay taxes honestly. Of course, I propose to support the Presidential Bill, and my colleague would like me to support it by pressing the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u119	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u120	I give the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u121	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u122	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We think that this bill is going to start getting the Ukrainian economy out of the shadows. And it will actually contribute to expanding the tax base in our country, because this bill proposes that a special voluntary declaration of the assets of individuals will be made within one year of July of this year. What will this bill allow? First of all, it is to recover the funds that have been withdrawn from Ukraine and also to fill in our country’s budget, since from the amounts declared, almost five percent will be taxed. With these taxes, we will also be able to stop, for example, free economic zones. Among the bills that are now registered in the Supreme Council Hall are, for example, the 2070 Bill on Free Economic Zones. There are other bills from our colleagues and, in fact, if we are voting today on this bill that will allow us to fill our budgets and, as it were, start an economy from scratch, so we think we should also put in order the daily bills on free economic zones that will help attract investors to Ukraine, and therefore the funds in our budgets in the future, and today at least allow our citizens to get paid and live decently in our country. That's why we support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u123	Zabrodsky. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u124	Dear Ukrainians, a respected reporter for the Greens Bill on Amnesty Capitals! I want you to read the direct norm of the laws adopted in 1786 and 1117, which clearly states: they are not included in the tax revenue of a person in 2020-2021 in monetary or other forms of property derived from liquidation, termination of a foreign legal person or a foreign entity without the status of a legal person as a taxpayer. All the revenues that will be derived from offshores will be legalized below zero. So already one amnesty from Zelenski has been made because of this budget, it's not going to get a significant amount of money. What is the target audience of Amnesty 2.0 from Zelenski? This, of course, is the management and owners of Ukrainian enterprises, foundings, managers, top managers, who, under the current tax system and the heavy burden on the Labour Fund, have been forced to exist for a long time for a minimum wage, and they have open accounts, including abroad, for teaching children, for treatment, this will apply, these are labour migrants, millions are working outside Ukraine, getting large amounts of informal income, they are listed in Ukraine, and these are the costs that allow a large number of people to acquire assets. There are officially about one and a half million internally displaced persons in the country and so forth. And the standards of absolute amnesty! After this campaign, all those who own more than one standard are at risk. Be assured that the tax authorities will come to them. Please read the opinion of the vast majority of experts who warn us: offshore revenues have already been amnesty to zero. Please don't do this, because it won't make any money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u125	Alona Ivanovna Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u126	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! What is tax amnesty? Tax amnesty is actually a one-time action as the last chance to live honestly. When you have not paid taxes, you continue to open up your belongings, pay a percentage, and continue to live by the new rules of the game. But for this to happen, the new rules of the game have to be established, my friends. And it's quite the right initiative, but it can rarely be implemented and work properly. We're promised in this bill that we're going to get 20 billion dollars' worth of open assets. Think about that figure! God forbid we get at least one hundred or one thousandths. Because successful examples of tax amnesty around the world can be counted on the fingers of one hand and even less, and many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many. We've analyzed this story, and there are simple stories where tax amnesty works and where it doesn't work. Friends, it only works when the reasons for non-payment of taxes are eliminated. Without these reasons, nothing can work. The reasons why honest living was impossible and uncomfortable should be removed and left impossible and unfavourable. And that means one replacement of the rules of the game. Did this happen now? I don't know. Tax reform. And the Tax Act on the resulting capital lived for about 15 minutes after the registration. That means stopping smuggling, that means customs reform, that's the high-quality work of the State Bureau of Economic Security. And the main thing is judicial reform and confidence in the judicial system. Will people today believe this tax amnesty? I highly doubt it. Do they consider 5 percent fair? I doubt, too, because I remember when politicians opened their electronic declarations, and we saw that people who worked their entire lives in public service actually declared millions of dollars in cash under zero tax amnesty, collecting wine, and holy power. Here you're going to propose 5 percent. So let's start with an honest conversation and a change in the tax system. Without that, it's not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u127	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u128	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u129	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u130	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. To understand and cure the disease, we need to understand what the problem is. We've had tax amnesty for 30 years. Every President, every Prime Minister who comes, promises to return money from offshore, amnesty and all the best. And nothing happens. Why is that? Let's look at the numbers. For example, on a direct investment in 2020, what happened to President Zelenski? And what's happened is that over the last five years, direct investment is minus 400 million. So we're not talking about something coming to Ukraine or coming. Now the main task for all of us is to stop what's coming out of Ukraine. Give jobs after the coronary crisis and after the economic crisis, and give people the opportunity to work here. Now it's not a question of someone returning the money, it's a question of what the last investment is. So take it easy and realize that amnesty has not taken place. Not because bad law or good law, but because to make an amnesty of capital, you have to have both trust and tax reform and property rights and fair courts. Because what the People's Servant is proposing is a business trap. As soon as the first tax bracelet comes in, the amnesty will be. But there will be no amnesty for other law enforcement agencies. This means that everything will, as always, be on the cover of corruption and will be won only by those who can negotiate and resolve corruption in Ukraine. Thus, the culture of taxation of citizens starts not with citizens but with government authorities. For example, from tax inspection, from tax reform, from many others, and from judicial reform. So let's first introduce the culture of the court, the tax culture, and then we'll go to the citizens. And the main thing, without the Economic Security Bureau, is going to be really transparent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u131	Thank you. Anna Constantine's speedboat, and then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, tax evasion is a crime, but tax avoidance or optimism, as they like to say, is exactly what led many people into business, made rich people, and led us to consider such a bill with you. You seemed to know that the authorities were willing to go for anything to fill the government budget that was cracking at the seams. And even willing to legalize or clean up your and your incomes that were once acquired illegally. On the one hand, everybody here says it's really necessary to do that. On the one hand, I agree, on the other hand, there's a question of justice, yes, in society. If for rich people a low rate of amortization of capital is an opportunity to legalize their previous income and property taxes in vain, then for other people the question is, why have I worked all these years to pay taxes? And what's justice at the state level, if one can do this and the other: and I've had all these years going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. So the question of justice, it's in society with the adoption of this bill, will remain. And I don't think it's just a question at stake. We support this bill in the first reading, but to the second reading, we're going to propose a series of rights to at least generalize it and eventually lead to some consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u133	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5153). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:12:38]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next question is the draft Law. And I'm putting it to a vote right now. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 16 of the Law on currency and monetary transactions in relation to the amendment to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Promotion of the Childhood of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a single collection to the budget (registration No. 5155). Please support and vote. [[16:13:34]] For 249 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. I'll put it to a vote right away. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine, to amend the Code of Taxation of Ukraine on the Promotion of Childhood and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens by introducing a voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and paying a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5156). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. That's the basis. [[16:14:35]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending before. After we've gone through all the questions, yes, there'll be a break. Draft Act amending Chapter V of the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property on Privatization of Large Privatization Objects (Registration No. 4543). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Okay. Then let's go straight. Yvchenko, 5 revisions. Don't insist. Polakov. Is he insisting? 6 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u134	Dmitri Alexanderovich, if you'll excuse me for a few minutes, I've got a lot of lines and everything, I'll give you a general.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u135	Two minutes, please turn on Polack.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u136	Again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u137	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u138	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention, you have today passed the Law 4020, in which you have actually allowed it, although in the first reading, but I very much doubt that you will change something. Until privatization. Do not prohibit privatization, such as the Antonov DP, the Buran Institute of Science and Research, etc. These are strategic enterprises that can never be privatized. The same conclusion of the GNEU states that this bill contains risks to our national security, in which we are now in a state. In fact, there is a state of undeclared war. And now we want our defence complex to be privatized. And I also want to point out that all my changes are about what we now have in the economic crisis, now we have a pandemic, now we can't find normal investors to buy these businesses and put them in order. In fact, Zelensky, instead of making arrangements to clear these million wages of all the heads of these state enterprises, just wants to sell them out of the hammer. And this bill is related to seven bills, such as 4,020. I strongly ask not to support this bill. Or put to the vote my papers 21, 22, 24, 25. This is exactly when this bill is supposed to be valid, it's after the Coronavirus pandemic. When any economic crisis is overcome, and we can actually sell these businesses at a competitive price. And to really have normal foreign investors come to us. It's not like we're going to give up our strategic enterprises for nothing in a crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u139	You don't insist on the papers? What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u140	21st, 22nd, 24th, 25th. That's exactly what the terms are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u141	I'll bet 21 votes. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:18:05]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 22 Polish version. Please identify and vote. [[16:18:23]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 23 Polyakov's line. Please identify and vote. [[16:18:43]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 24 Polish Committee Amendments are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[16:19:02]] For-36 The decision is not taken. And Polack's extreme revision of the 25th committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[16:19:21]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line of Vlasenka number 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u142	Thank you, Mr. Head. In the Transitional Positions of the Privatisation Act, there was a rule that no privatisation auctions were conducted for periods of quarantine. We're being asked to throw it out. Boys, markets are falling, stability's gone, the court system's gone, there's no investment protection. With one hand you will nationalize the Sietch Motor, and with the other hand you want to sell defence objects at a time when the seventh year is going on in Ukraine. So this is all absolutely proof of the absence of any kind of policy. So I insist that the Law on Privatization remain with the prohibition, the moratorium on privatization at least during the SOVID, not to mention all other things. Once again, no country in the world is privatizing during war. No one is privatizing when markets are falling. Everyone sells when the market grows. And that's how the speculators come in and buy everything for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u143	I'm betting on the vote of 7th Vlastenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[16:21:05]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Batenko. Don't insist. Frolow, 15 degrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u144	Good afternoon, dear fellows! My amendment proposes to allow auctions to be made for the sale of objects of great privatization, but only if these auctions go to a higher price. My amendment prohibits the privatization of large privatization objects, Dutch auctions, if this is a method of lowering the price either by way of redemption or by determining price propositions. My amendment will remove manipulation and speculation. If the price is normal, if the Ukrainian State receives the right price for the object of great privatization, please let us unlock this privatization and, in fact, cover the budget deficit. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u145	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u146	Thank you very much. First, what is a normal price? A normal price is a market price, a price at which business is willing to purchase an object. To find this market price, different types of auctions are introduced, including a discount, with a discount on the starting price. And I would like to point out that the Dutch auction for large-scale privatization objects is not envisaged, it's just a little privatisation. Thank you. The committee's been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u147	I'll bet you vote number 15. It's not supported by the committee. Please vote. Frolov's edit, 15th. [[16:23:04]] For 262 Decision taken. Next item. There's no alien. Yvchenko does not insist. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending Chapter V of the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property on Privatization of Large Privatization Objects (Registration No. 4543). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:23:59]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u148	Show the factions, please. The next question is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the level of responsibility for violating the requirements of technological and fire safety (registration No. 4157). As far as I'm concerned, don't my colleagues insist on law enforcement? I'll put him to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the level of responsibility for violating the requirements of technological and fire safety (registration No. 4157). Please support and vote. [[16:25:01]] For-300 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next question (registration number 3931). I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for obstacles to testing of technological and fire safety (Registration No. 3931). Please support and vote. [[16:25:42]] For-286 Decision taken. Question 4355. Can we also do without a line? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and Documents certifying Ukrainian citizenship, certifys a person or his or her special status (registration No. 4355). Please support and vote. [[16:26:26]] For 302 Decision taken. And the final question is, this is the bill (registration number 4667-1). One amendment, then we're going to vote for the law. No, not one piece of paper? Sowsun, Shpak. It's already been added. Why don't we go straight through? No, it's too much. Then let's go to the table because that's the way it is. Lukashev. Don't insist. Tsymbaluk. Ziba. Frolow. Fraud. Pauline. It's fine. Sowsun, 41 requisitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u149	Mr. Chairman, I don't have 41 tickets, I have a few licenses that go later. I'll ask for two minutes and I'll put one to the vote, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u150	Two minutes. Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, of course, the bill is correct. It deals with a lot of issues that we have accumulated in the direction of regulating the judgment of scientific degrees. At the same time, there is one fundamental flaw in the bill. This error is about how we regulate the issue of de-scientific de-scientificity in the case of plagiarism. What exactly is the problem? The bill states that if plagiarism is detected in the doctor’s dissertation of philosophy, such dissertation is abolished by the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. At the same time, the scientific degrees of a candidate for science, a doctor of science, remain in the knowledge of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. In fact, the amendment that I'm going to put to the vote suggests that we make it clear that all of the questions that relate to the elimination of scientific degrees, all of the scientific degrees: both the candidate of science, and the doctor of philosophy, and the doctor of science, will be decided by the National Agency for the quality assurance of higher education. Because the situation when we expect the Minoswits to solve this problem is unfortunately not self - justifying. We have the fourth year, I emphasize, the fourth year of Minosvita doesn't take a position on how to cancel scientific degrees in case plagiarism is detected there. For four years, no scientific degree was cancelled. At the same time, there are problems. And these degrees continue to be judged. I want to remind you that unfortunately, there is no National Deputy Illy Kiva among us right now, but he's planning to protect the candidate's dissertation in the near future, and he won't be subject to that regulation. I don't want to imply in any way that Ilya Kiwa didn't write her own dissertation, but at the same time, I really want to have a clear mechanism to take away the scientific degrees of the candidate for science and the doctor of science. So I'm asking you to put my number 60 vote to close this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u152	No. 60. It is considered partly by the committee, the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[16:29:59]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Stefanchuk. Don't insist. Whitelighter, 83 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u153	Mr. Head, I have seven right-handers, they've all been rejected, so I'm asking you to give me two minutes and I won't insist on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u154	Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u155	Colleagues, it's very good that we're looking at this bill today, which is aimed at solving the organization's issues and further protecting the dissertation of our scientists. And I would also like to point out that according to a letter from the MON, reports from specialized scientific councils on the adoption of the protection and appointment of official opponents are no longer accepted by the MON after March 10th. It is obvious that this process will resume after the entry into force of this law when we vote today, but I have a rhetorical question. What, no one knew this was going to be a problem? Until our colleague initiated it, Mrs. Shpak, and we supported this bill with our signatures (4667) on the extension of the deadlines, neither MON, had any problems, and they didn't see it, and they thought it was self-sufficient, you know, and they'd figure it out. So look, I've got some corrections here, and I don't know why they weren't taken into account. But Amendment 112, here is an entirely unreasonable suggestion that persons who, prior to becoming effective by this law are assigned the scientific degree of a candidate of science, according to their desire for higher education, cannot be awarded a doctoral degree in philosophy in the relevant field. What is needed in adopting such a ban that solves the problem of such an approach, perhaps colleagues there are concerned about preserving the forest, I don't know. Therefore, it would also be logical, if specially certified, to allow the council to be formed without further control. But today, obviously, no one is ready to go and we're all talking about autonomy, but we're talking about real university autonomy, but when we adopt this law, it's too early. So, colleagues, in general, our trust group will support this bill, but it's unfortunate that the necessary amendments have been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u156	Next Love Alexander's Shpak. You have a right five, how many will you insist on? Microphone, turn on Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u157	Seven rights do not need to be put to the vote, but I will ask for four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u158	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u159	Three. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u160	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u161	On the one hand, the bill that is now being passed and the amendments to the bill are being registered. I can tell you, my bill, which was 4667, and 4667-1, it's not an alternative. And accordingly, we're now looking at what and what this is all about, which is that there was a deferral, and here we're completely changing the system. As for the committee, such questions and Bill 4629, which was registered directly by the committee's members, were repeatedly raised, respectively, and all the alternatives submitted were no longer registered. So this is some kind of biased situation. And I would like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, to direct the Apparatus to clarify the grounds for the registration of Bill 4567-1 as an alternative to Bill 4667. As far as I'm concerned, number 79. If I suggested that I exclude the position on MON's consent to the creation of one-off specialized councils, my argument was: the authors' initiative to grant such a right to MON is a way of delaying the process in general and smearing the responsibility in fact to stimulate accountability for the result. And I wanted to make one point, and I think it's one of the most important things -- it's number 113. In my view, there is no legal basis to rule out the right of a person who has a degree in science to obtain a doctorate in philosophy from the relevant field of science. I don't understand the purpose of this is to rule out that. Colleagues worry that we're going to have some kind of problem in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u162	You don't have Kovalov's licenses. What's the number? Turn on the microphone, Kovalova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u163	Please give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u164	Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u165	37, 162 and 172.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u166	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u167	I want to thank the committee for finally settling the question of how to assign a doctor to science and how to establish responsibility for plagiarism -- it's really revolutionary and that's the right thing to do. Since we have the full responsibility of the opponents and the head of the scientific council, there was no such thing. So once again, I want to thank you, this is the right thing to do together, and I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u168	Thank you. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the award of scientific degrees (registration No. 4667-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:36:39]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now thanks to the position of two factions, we can announce a 30-minute recess. Then we close this session and start the next one immediately. Thank you. 30 minutes, that is, 5:10 a.m., we're starting work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, the plenary session of the Supreme Council is closed.
