ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, media reps! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. I remind everyone again that we have a sensor button on Tuesday. In order for the registration to take place, it must be pressed from the beginning of the time calculation for registration or for voting. And the green "for", the first on the left (Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, first on the left, yes), and should be held back until the results are counted. I hope everyone remembers? Shouldn't a test vote be made? No, I'm good. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:11:32]] There are 280 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is our colleague Valery Alexiovich Zuba's birthday. [[Applause]] Hello! I want success, effort, achievement, and health first. Let's get to it. Right now? Let's at least vote one, maybe two, right? Right now? Let's have two laws at least. One law, okay. Dear colleagues. Because there's been an application for a break, for a real break, so I suggest that we start our work, and then how do we do it? You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of organization and gambling (registration numbers 4351, 4351-1, 4351-2). The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Marusjak Oleg Romanovich, is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:13:07]] For 203 Decision taken. Oleg Romanovich Marusjak as the author of the bill is speaking. Please turn on 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u2	Good day to you all! Honourable Head, Honorary Colleagues, Bill 4351 aims to resolve the issue of the legislature that arose during the vote in favour of the Ukrainian Act "On State regulation of the organization and conduct of gambling" 14.07. 20 years. Thus far, according to part two of article 7 of the Law, members of the Gambling and Lottery Board are appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers as a result of a competition conducted by the Commission of Higher Staff of the State Service. According to part three of this article 7, the members of the commission are appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers for the results of the competition. a special competition commission, elected by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy. Most members of the committee voted in favour of Bill 4151-1. However, I would like to take into account the fact that the rules in this bill are not in line with part one of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are established by the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out legislative work, preparation and prior consideration of matters related to its powers, and the exercise of supervisory functions in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. There are no relevant powers of the Supreme Council committees and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees Act. Therefore, given the specificities of the constitutional and legal status, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot be the subject of the submission of candidates to a competition commission for the election of the head and members of the gaming committee. The same position as that of functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u3	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. Alexander Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, good morning! You and I are considering a very interesting decision today, Bill 4351-1. It was signed by most of the members of the Finance Committee of the Supreme Council and was supported by them in order to vote on it in the Council. The purpose of this bill is to enable the Supreme Council, or Parliament, to influence the appointment of members of the Commission to oversee the market for gambling. The effect of this is that the Supreme Council, based on the Committee on Finance, conducts an open competition for potential members of this Supervisory Board in order to take them out at a transparent competition. My colleague Marousek's bill, which is not supported by the committee and which he has just reported, essentially preserves the commission to oversee the market for gambling, which was created by the Cabinet of Smigal Ministers after the so-called COVID selection. This commission is now headed by a man who is, and this is an example of the opacity of Kabmin's selection of the members of this commission, led by the linear producer of the ICTTV channel. Also on this committee, it's made up of Mr. Marousek's assistant, who is the author of the bill, and wants to actually record a story with a commission that is now created by Kabmin. So that his assistant, the linear producer of the ICT channel, and other people who don't have anything to do with the gaming business, run this business and actually participate, like me, in a corrupt hardware. In order to deal with such corrupt risks, we have proposed that a commission be made and that the Council be able to influence its transparent selection. Please support Bill 4351-1 and give this opportunity to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u5	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Galajchuk Vadim Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! My co-sponsors and I have proposed a little bit more to regulate the circle of issues, because we think it's still important, of course, to resolve that conflict of norms. But in addition, we think we should clear those that are openly blocking the international transparent business position in the bill that we have adopted. So the main task that we've set ourselves up is to create such a normal civilised market in Ukraine. And that's possible, we're sure, only when international companies are involved that have experience that have demonstrated a willingness to work openly. So in addition, the issue of the collegiate legislation that my colleagues have already talked about and I'm not going to stop at it, we propose to cancel the threefold cost of the annual license, which, in our opinion, is now blocking the possibility for international operators to go to the market in Ukraine, and to introduce a parallel state system of online monitoring, and to predict that it should be operational as of 1 July 2021. It's absolutely real if we use the technical work that these international operators have. We also propose to cancel the requirement for the deployment of online gaming technology. Nothing but the ability to do these notorious masks-shows and delete servers, that's not a requirement. So I'm very much asking the room to support exactly the version of the bill that we're proposing with our colleagues, that, as I said before, it would really open up this market, make it transparent, controlled and that would actually allow you to fill the country's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u7	Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Marusjak Oleg Romanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u8	Three bills were discussed at the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy meeting on December 20, 2020. The Committee decided to recommend a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the activities and organization of gambling (for the elimination of the conflict over the order of formation of the Authorized Authority) by No. 4351-1 of 11.11.2020, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Dubinsky Alexander Anatoliyovich. Take as a basis and generally with technical legal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u9	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Tchaikovsky John Adamovich. Polakov? Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u10	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, we all remember how loudly we applauded the "ministers of the people" when we passed the gambling bill. And what we see now is the bill of these same "ministers of the people," and they write that the adopted Act on State regulation of the activities of the gambling organization contains a number of technical errors, clauses that disagree with each other and form coalitions. And as a result, Ukraine's budget for the 20th year is unrealized by 4 billion. That's what the "ministers of the people" accepted here, that's what they applauded for, and now they're trying to change. Now the direct language of Minister Kabmin Oleg Nemchinov on the selection of coworkers to the commission: "It's a big responsibility and a big corrupt risk." You know, obviously it's a rhetorical question, and we can't trust our government, our Kabmin, it's a question, because it's really a big corruption risk. We've already seen billions of dollars stolen from Big Construction -- theft -- we see billions now begin to steal from vaccine purchases, when it's done through a company with a fixed capital of 28,000 dollars, and this firm is responsible for the health of the entire nation. And now we can't let this committee be held accountable by this government. We support the one-definition bill, and it gives the Supreme Council rights and control functions for the selection of this commission. Because we're still living in the Parliamentary-President Republic, not in the Office-President or the President-Cubminian Republic. So please support the alternative bill, Tier One. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zari Maksim Valentinovich, Political faction. Buzanski Maksim Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I was surprised to hear that this is not constitutional when Parliament is forming a board of directors for the regulation of the gaming business. I remind you that it was Parliament, the law enforcement committee, that put forward and proposed to the Council the nominations of members of the committee from Parliament for the selection of the Director of the DBR, the nominations of the members of the commission for the selection of the SAP leadership, and no one said it was unconstitutional. It looks very strange when parliamentarians propose to transfer control functions to the Cabinet of Ministers. Let me remind you, the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't have an approved program of action. Then who will answer? I remind you that each of you, by voting his time to open up the game market, has assumed a certain responsibility to society for how it will work. So let's continue to shoulder this responsibility and leave the commission's control of gambling to Parliament. I propose that you support the one-off bill and allow the financial committee of Parliament to influence the integrity and efficiency of the gambling commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u14	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, on the front. We know that 14 Ukrainian military personnel have been killed, dozens have been wounded. A disaster with a pandemic, it's taking turns. We started vaccination later than Zimbabwe, and so today we have such a rate of vaccination that it will take decades to complete it. We have a catastrophic economic situation in the state. What do you think they're looking at "ministers of the people"? That's right, friends, the game business. That's the main question. No, not war, no, not pandemic, it doesn't matter, the game business! These guys and the girls in their turbo-stupid, by adopting the law, were in such a hurry to go to the casino, which means they accepted that it's not working today, they have to make changes. And look, three different laws, and all three laws, the authors are "ministers of the people." This people's card house is already falling apart. Why did they get so far over there? To be able to control the game business honestly? Or the dirty money that the Ukrainians want out of their pockets — the sick people, the lunatics, and the particle to put on the pockets of those who will appoint this commission. And they fight one another, see: no, we will appoint; no, we will appoint; no, the committee; no, Kabmin; give us; give us. That's what people do. You know, Zelensky told us that only five-star casino hotels are going to be there, and now they've done something that they can do in crossings, these one-handed bandits. Greensky promised us "Las Vegas," but he only gets "Hellandik."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u15	Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I want to be in the hall right now, and for all those who are listening to us right now, just to say that the order of the day of the Supreme Council is inconceivable, how incomprehensible, where the doorways are not clear, with what priorities. We, as an opposition faction, are completely excluded from this process and with our laws, systems, deep, such as insurance medicine or pension reform, or the correct wage and pension index, we are like opposition, in principle, thrown into the margins. You know why? Because there's always been corruption in this room, and today it's not just reigning, it's mossy. Because at a time when I can't get the signatures for the extra-curricular session of the 92 deputies out of 150, and more than 450, they have signed. I want to thank all these deputies. I will print a full list of those who have signed here and who want to settle tariff issues and stop corruption on tariffs. But at the same time today, the laws on gambling are key to corruption. Who made the decision on this priority? Today they're going to fight in the hall, who's going to be bribed for issuing licenses -- government or parliament. The game business didn't have to be. Today they have laid down a law to reduce threefold the tax on the gaming business. Isn't that corruption? I want you to show who made that decision and who wrote that humiliating decision is totally not worthy of our Parliament's decision. I want to remind the leader of the "Serial of the People" faction of artificial intelligence in the fight against corruption. So apply it at last!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u17	Suffritch is the motive. Then we go to the vote. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Can you please tell me the tariffs are okay? Retired? Is the income up? By the way, we're having a bit of a fight here. Today, the pension is twice as low as it was in the 13th year, and the average wage in the minimum was somewhat flat. But the utility is 11 times higher, the average cost of living is 4 times higher. Subsidies have been reduced since the predecessors, and I don't want to speak for the replica. You've reduced the subsidies by two times. And now you've got the chips again? No, the casino chips don't work, let's rob people electronically. We are definitely against it. First, create a wealth of people who can go to the casino, not take the last one and lose. Children will soon be selling! Thank you for your attention. You don't have a conscience! And I want to thank you for the advice to protect our journalists, which will now be held.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u19	The railroad is motivated, and we vote. Are there no more speakers? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's no procedure. Please come. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, it's strange that when we adopt the law, we had an obvious coalition, which, on the one hand, is assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers, on the other hand, to the Committees of the Supreme Council. All indicated, including lawyers, and national deputies, that there was a conflict. Nevertheless, the President decided to sign the law instead of using his technical veto. And now we have almost six months of misunderstandings about a situation that also affects our promise to bring (how many were there, 7, 10, 20 billion?) in the State budget. So correct this error. We're not going to vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u21	Is everyone ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Bills will be in the order in which they were supported by the committee. First, the one that was supported by the committee, if it's recruiting or not recruiting a number of votes -- one situation, if not -- we go on to other bills. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. I understand correctly that on the basis and in general, no one is ready? I'll bet. Two factions against. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of activities in the organization and conduct of gambling (registration No. 4351-1). Ready to vote? Once again, the vote takes place by means of a sensory button, and you need to keep two buttons to fix the voting results. Ready? Please vote. [[10:34:25]] For-40 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to return the subject to the legislative initiative, please. I would like to place a motion for a motion for a committee to prepare for the re-reading of draft Law 4351-1. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] First one votes, then the other. Thanks for the offer. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:35:14]] For-65 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to redraft Bill 4351-1. Ready to vote? Can I have a vote? [[10:35:49]] For-60 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of activities in the organization and conduct of gambling (registration No. 4351). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:36:25]] For-198 The decision is not taken. I'll bet the vote on the return proposal. on the referral to the preparatory committee. Let's see the factions. For re-reading the draft Law, registration number 4351. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:37:02]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to redraft Bill 4351. Ready to vote? Please vote. Don't forget the sensor button. [[10:37:34]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of activities in the organization and conduct of gambling (registration No. 4351-2). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:38:14]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of the draft Law registration number 4351-2. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:38:43]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Well, I take it we can't put another vote on. Shall we? Okay. I am voting on the proposal to give the subject the right of legislative initiative to draft Law 4351-2. Please vote. [[10:39:16]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u22	No, don't worry. You didn't initiate it. No, it's not. When my colleagues turn around, I'll be sure to call it a break. Thank you. We are going to consider the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine on the establishment of alternative jurisdiction over cases that are held in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (registration No. 3048). Is anyone going to insist on editing? It won't. Prepare for the vote, please. I'll bet you a vote. I'll ask you a question right away. Dear colleagues, the question: On the basis and in general, there is no objection? I'll bet you a vote. Oh, sorry, that's the second reading. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine on the establishment of alternative jurisdiction over cases that are held in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol (Registration No. 3048). Ready to vote? Let me remind you once again of the sensor button and the retention of the voting results. Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:41:27]] For 299 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent excessive pressure on State-supervised (control) operators to comply with labour and employment legislation. It's a second reading again. Registration number 0958. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? It won't. Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to prevent excessive pressure on State-supervisors (control) to comply with legislation on labour and employment (registration No. 0958). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:42:50]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. There's a 30-minute recess, until 11:15. Requesting the leaders of the MP factions and groups to meet in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, a small announcement. Two more factions take a break for half an hour. And then with faction leaders there was an agreement: we're starting a lunch break 15 minutes early, the one we're supposed to have from 12 to 12:30, and we're going to be back in the room 15 minutes early. So now we have a break until 12:15. At 12:15 everyone goes back to the hall, we keep working. Do you understand, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Are you tired? Can you see who's offering a break? Vlasenko. Who else? Eutushka. Fatherland's asking for a break. We're broken up now, that's enough. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on Advertisement on Resisting Discrimination on the Mark of Sex. Please prepare for the vote. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Ready to vote? So invite the national MPs. Ready to vote? And put your masks on, please. Ready? I'm voting on a motion to review Bill 3427 for a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:19:30.]] For 178. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bardina Marina Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u25	Good afternoon, colleagues! You now have before you an important bill amending Ukraine's Advertising Act in the face of gender discrimination. I didn't visualize you today to show you what our bill is aimed at, so that you don't duplicate certain patterns in public, but on the web you can all see what discriminatory advertising is. And what I'm going to tell you is that in the last period, the State Food Service has registered about 390 cases, where it's actually started to deal with complaints about discriminatory advertising, although there's actually more attention to the State Food Service. It's actually about the possibility of finding mechanisms to react to discriminatory advertising. Because the state of affairs today does not have sufficient grounds, particularly for making such decisions. Although there are some restrictions in the legislation, unfortunately there are no mechanisms. So, together with the judges, particularly the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the public, we have drafted a bill proposing that we really define the terminology, what is discrimination based on sex in advertising and discrimination in general. We offer to protect the rights of consumers and to increase the responsibility for violations of advertising legislation. The practice of resisting discrimination in advertising already exists in a number of countries: Britain, Finland, Spain, and Poland, which is why Ukraine does not invent bicycles. We have been supported by the Main Committee, supported by the Ministry of Social Policy, and this bill also meets the requirements of the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination and Ukraine’s Commitment under the Association Agreement. Before the second reading, we agreed to work on it, taking into account the conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy of Eugenia Mikhail Kravczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u27	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The opposition to sex, which is the purpose of the project, is in line with Ukraine’s international obligations, particularly through its accession to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, as well as with its Association Agreement with the European Union. The proposed bill implements European standards in the area of anti-discrimination. He found support in the Committee on Integration of Ukraine from the EU, the Committee on Human Rights, other committees, many national deputies from various factions and groups. The project also received considerable social resonance. Our committee with requests and suggestions to support it in its first reading has received a number of appeals from representatives of the field, of the public authorities, and of the public organizations. Among them: the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Social Policy, the State Service, the Ukrainian Marketing Association and the Union of Consumers of Ukraine. On the basis of our committee and profile subcommittee, there were meetings and discussions with representatives of the advertising industry, and their proposals would also be taken into account in the work of the project on second reading. We have also received proposals to further improve the project from the Commissioner for Human Rights on the need to reconcile the proposed definition of "discrimination advertising" with the definition of "discrimination" in the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Opposition to Discrimination in Ukraine. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered the draft Law of February 10, 2021, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on the first reading as a basis and work with regard to the comments and suggestions made at the second reading stage. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the People's Deputy Dubnov, "The Servant of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u29	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Frolo Paul Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u30	Who? I didn't hear. Frolov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the entire civilized world is struggling with any discrimination, including gender. The project prohibits discriminatory advertising, which includes claims or images of intellectual, physical, social, or other advantages of one sex over another, stereotyping the role of a man and a woman who restricts the freedom of life, demeans human dignity, demonstrates gender violence, portrays a person’s body as a sexual object, or with the hint of sexual relations. In a Ukrainian society, there are widespread cases of mistreatment of women, girls, and girls. Unfortunately, we can't talk about equal opportunities for men and women in employment, education, economic and social activities, in decision-making, even in politics. Discrimination and sexism at the domestic level are even more harmful. We have to fix this. I would like to remind you that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe recently approved recommendations on preventing and combating sexism. On the day of his inauguration, President Trump suggested that the equality of women and men in employment be strengthened. So we need to consider not only this bill, but others about the prohibition of sexism. We have to give a clear signal to society as a whole that any word, gesture, behavior, visual expression that expresses the idea that a person or a group of people is worse because of their sex is not just tolerated, but punished properly. Let's say no to discrimination, to images and humiliation today -- in advertising, tomorrow, hopefully, both in the public and private sphere and on the Internet. Thank you for your attention. I propose to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u32	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Princess, please, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, many people signed this bill, and "European Solidarity" supports it in the first reading. But we need to understand what needs to be corrected. The law is called discrimination by sex. But it actually introduces the term "discriminal advertising" and says that it refers to both political, religious, and other beliefs, sex, citizenship, including language or person. or groups of persons. If discriminatory advertising by sex is defined in this bill, other types of discriminatory advertising are not defined, and this is what needs to be done, because this is mentioned here, because the law on this is not just about sex. There are some strange things in the law, for example, that are proposed to prohibit the discrediting of goods. What is discrediting or discriminating goods? And what kind of goods? What are you talking about? The proposal to refer to discriminatory advertising by sex, an advertisement that contains a statement or a picture of the stereotype of the role of a man and a woman should be exposed because the issue of stereotypes is evaluative and subjective. If, excuse me, you show a man in a commercial near a car or a woman in the kitchen, it can be recognized as discrimination, and such advertising can be declared illegal. Obviously, this bill should be brought into line with the Prevention of Discrimination Act. We have such a bill. But it's with this and the responsibilities in this law, and in no way will they respond. That's why this bill needs substantial work, although ideologically, we are essentially supporting it and voting for it as "European Solidarity" in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u34	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Please, Alona Ivanovna's Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u35	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. You know, I want us to talk openly about this bill today. Because when I came to Parliament six years ago, it seemed to me that issues such as reform of government, such as proper appointments, such as transparency of appointments and policy development, were much more important to talk about them from this rostrum than gender discrimination. And I was wrong, colleagues. Because the examples that we're showing here with you in this room that we're showing in the television commercials that show the heads of the country in discrimination or non-discrimination on the basis of sex, they're either creating a society where we want to live and want our children to live there, or they're destroying it. And the bill in that sense is absolutely correct. He's got a lot of legal comments. I wish it were better to define what sex discrimination is in advertising, but it's the right idea. It is only wrong that such things are regulated by their own examples and role models in society, not just by drafts. I have to tell you with sadness, frankly, that you know, no worse discriminatory advertising than sex, it's not a question of the bill, and that's when the whole country sees, every day on television, the council for the development of communities and territories and the council, under the leadership of President Greensky, where there are no women at the round table of 50 people. Where there's a round table for the development of communities and territories every day on television, there's only men, there's no vice-speaker, there's no opposition, there's no women governors, there's no woman vice-premier at the round table. This is the worst discriminating commercial, my friends. This doesn't start with a bill. This begins with the example of each of us in this room and with the example of the leaders of the State. I know that people who understand this are in this room. Please bring this to the President's quarters. Please bring this to every Ukrainian and do what we can without legislation to combat discrimination on various absolutely different examples. This bill should be further elaborated on the second reading. That's a good idea. Let's do more with our own examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u36	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u38	Larissa Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, the honourable lord of the presidency! Indeed, the terms "gender equality" and "equal rights of men and women" are terms that are already very relevant in Ukraine today. Yet, we do have certain achievements. The quotas in last year’s local elections worked effectively. We adopted Law 3695, which provides for the right of men to leave. Finally, our Ninth Council has the largest number of women in the history of parliamentaryism. So what I'm trying to say is that there are some problems in the advertising field, though there is progress. Every day there are some loud scandals about the use of discriminating advertising, meddling on board that the best gift for a woman is a peach or a pan. They're actually tiny compared to what we see in an advertising campaign in Ukraine. But what I'm saying is that this bill, it doesn't create such a really active mechanism that would allow the control body to determine which advertising is discriminatory. There are also no mechanisms for drawing on the responsibility for discriminatory advertising. Unwritten procedures to which professional organizations need to be consulted to understand that there is really a conclusion and it is discriminatory. So, you know, the important thing is to raise fines, because we're all trying to make fines, and it didn't just make it better for some people to take fines, and it didn't do society any good. So I think the authors need to finalize this bill. But in general, I very much hope that Trust Group will support this bill, a large part of its male gender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are they still desirable? I see. Please, Dmitri Lubinets, and after that. I don't see who. I see, that's all, Samantha Bobrowski. And then we vote. Please, Dmitri Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u41	Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! Unlike our colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future can clearly say that we support the adoption of this bill. We support the concept of anti-discrimination based on sex. We understand that both advertising and, in general, Ukraine needs to be brought into some context. And when it's disgraceful. You go to Kiev as many boards as you can with a woman’s article or with a man in disgraceful, sorry, postures that advertise certain goods. This is forbidden in many countries, and this needs to be regulated in Ukraine. We're going to vote and finish this bill for the second reading. My fellow men, we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u42	And women, too, I think, no matter what sex. Please give the word to Samantha Bobrowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u43	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, it's right that there's finally going to be an open debate in Parliament about what we're not only seeing in Parliament and hearing, and where the IFF "Equal Opportunities" are speaking for one position or another, and I'd like to talk about what we see on the roads and on the streets of cities. Let me quote just a few examples. "Little girl, but her own, and lays down with me like a baby," writes a combination of building materials. The question is what they say is the brain, the baton, or something else. "You give an apple, you burn a carrot." In fact, they paid a fine for the context of what was painted and what was written. And so on and so forth. Or does your accountant take lysing with ambiguous photos on this commercial? Friends, as the military say, "Tango Foxtrot's Whiskey," what is this all about, and how can these things be, in principle, permissible? That's why the Voice faction is definitely in favour. And it's about respect in society, in mass products that come out, and gigabytes just throw everything away from the kids and end up with our heads to get someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, I see, and then we move on to the vote, your honorary colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u45	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to pay attention to both the individual national MPs and our constituents, that the law is wider than what some speakers are trying to do here. And it's not just discriminatory. is defined, more specifically, by advertising which contains and uses statements or images which are discriminatory, regarding the sign of race, skin color, political, emphasis, religious, also, and other beliefs, sex, age, what was said, disability, ethnic, social origin, citizenship, etc. So this law is much broader than they're trying to publish. This time. And second, about raising up to 600 untaxed minimums a fine for such advertising, well, maybe there's an appropriate but questionable question. And I would like to point out that international legislation on this issue, it also draws attention to discrimination against people, including in terms of citizens' incomes. Because nothing is as humiliating in Ukraine as poverty. And the MPs who haven't lost reality with society and the people of Ukraine, they know that. So let me take that into account for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. We support gender equality.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u47	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising of Ukraine on the Elimination of Discrimination on the Mark of Sex (Registration No. 3427). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:38:25]] For 266 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. With a replacement for the performance, yes, unfortunately, I can see. Keith, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u48	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Andrew Keith, Stryshtyn, Jewish, trust MP. You know, today I want to draw your attention to the work of Ucroborprom, Ukraine, namely, to the personality of the deputy director of the marketing concert, Mr. Michael Morozov, whose autobiography impresses me with the clear membership of the structures of the KGB of Russia, or more, even the elite institutions of Andropov. Michael Morozov's work as head of the then Special Forces Progress from one of the countries of South Asia has cost Ukraine $100 million. It's about the same damage that was sustained in the Ucrobanprom. Importantly, back then in 2010, the U.S. Embassy responded to the so - called Morozov Agreements with a protest note, where simply more convenient agreements for Ukraine were replaced by damages. Moreover, Ukraine's Bureau recently conducted searches in the Ucrobanprom and made an appropriate statement confirming the amount of damage and openly criminal conduct under the article of the Criminal Code "State Betrayal". And Morozov is still working. Strange, isn't it? Ucrobanprom raised corruption and instead of being a source of income and strengthening the country's security, it became an accessory to Russian pre-exports, where it does everything to ensure that nothing is done. Or is it someone who pays for it? I bow my head to the employees of Ucrobanprom, companies that sometimes go to work free of charge just to save businesses that are unique in their technology in Ukraine. Now you can save the Ucrobanprom portfolio, which is now $1.3 billion (listen!), or it could be $10 billion. Let me remind you how much money we're asking for in the IMF. At a time when our boys are surrendering their lives for our Ukraine, former kegebeshniks, who are run by agents from Moscow, are trading and destroying our defenses of Ukraine. I want the Kremlin to get their hands off the Croat Prome. I demand Bakan's immediate investigation into a recent case of treason. I demand, we demand the President of Greens to act quickly and decisively. I want us to rebuild the Ucroborprom, and I want our country to start working on its own defense and to make a decent place in countries that trade arms and make money for it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Energy Efficiency Act (Registration No. 4507). It is suggested to be considered by a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:42:25]] For 213 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nagorniak Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u50	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! I have the honour to present to you today a dutiful bill for the economy and for the energy independence of our country, a bill on energy efficiency. Our nation has been waiting for the bill for more than five years, waiting for our European partners. A bill supported by the European Energy Community, supported by the Ministry of Energy and supported by our committee. Almost all the factions were the sponsors of the bill. I know that most of you have read all 66 pages of this bill, so let me tell you more about it, I think. I think it's about respect for the hard work of our miners, our atoms, our gases, our energies working on hydropower plants. We have to create all the preconditions for every kilowatt of electricity, every cubic meter of gas, every gigacalorie of heat to be saved. This bill creates a foundation for the creation of over 1 million new jobs. This bill creates opportunities for our Ukrainians to return from abroad so that they can work for their own country. This bill creates new opportunities to increase our domestic gross product. So, colleagues, I ask you to support, regardless of political preferences, our bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u51	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Energy and Housing and Utilities of the People's Deputy, Andry Mikhailovich Herus. Andrew Mikhailovich, we're waiting for your approach to the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u52	Good afternoon, chairman! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services at its meeting on January 27, 2021, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Energy Efficiency Act (No.4507) (since December 17, 2020), submitted by national deputies Sergei Nagornyak, Michael Bondar, Alona Shkrum and others. I would like to point out that this initiative is aimed at fulfilling Ukraine’s international obligations under the Treaty establishing the Energy Community and the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union. The bill is called upon to address key issues of energy efficiency development in the country and to modernize approaches to them, because the Energy Conservation Act in force today was adopted in the distant year 1994. The project envisages the establishment of legal economic and organizational frameworks for energy-efficient measures that will take place during the production, transportation, transfer, distribution, supply and consumption of electricity. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of an energy efficiency bill on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u54	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u55	Please, National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will vote in favour of this bill, the more I am a co-author of this law. Indeed, Ukraine has committed itself to the function of energy efficiency, and directly, we will really support it. But the previous colleague, as the bill was presented, said he was supported by both the Ministry and the Committee. So I'm going to ask the committee, anyway, to draw attention to the efficiency of the Energy Ministry itself, which would really work effectively in the area of paying wages to coal miners, including. And in the end, today, Greens has signed a law allowing Vitrek Jury to sign financial documents and to deal accordingly with issues that have now accumulated upon payment of wages in mining teams. Because of their wages, miners also want their homes to be energy efficient so that they do not spend too much gas and electricity. So once again, I'm asking the committee to call on the energy ministry to do an effective job. Thank you. And for this bill, "European Solidarity" will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u58	Please pass the word to your colleague Anton Polakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u59	Anton Eduardoovich Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we will undoubtedly support this bill, but we will notice that most of its positions are of a recommendational and declarative nature. As far as the bill is concerned. I really liked the phrase on energy efficiency, energy security, and, above all, energy poverty reduction. Friends, if we really want to do something for people, let's go into the hall and adopt those bills that really shorten this energy-based so-called poverty, let's adopt those bills that people are waiting for. But somehow, for example, David Arahami, to whom I approach and ask for signatures for the next session, in order to actually reduce the tariffs for the population, in order to return the tax rates, in order to pay this infamous fare for transporting gas, which is David Arahami, "the servant of the people": "Let's wait for the summer." I want every Ukrainian to know what these tariffs are for, it's disgraceful, all these payments and disgraceful attitudes towards people are the responsibility of the "ministers of the people" and David of Arahami. Let everyone and everyone know about it. I have 30 signatures left for all decent, honest deputies. For the future, for the Trust, for the Fatherland, for the European Solidarity, for the FMCT and for the non-fractional, they all signed their signatures for this next session. Please sign 30 signatures, and let's do something nice for our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u61	Please, National Deputy Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u62	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we recently announced a major reform in the whole country -- two fingers and two buttons. And it has, we believe, to improve the legal process. I want to convince you both to try, and all the Ukrainians that there are bills for which you can press three fingers, four fingers, but nothing will change that. Guys, we're legislators. Please read the comments of the GNEU, the Chief Research Administration, before this bill. 20 pages of smart text, 50 notes, which, if translated into human language, say that this is nonsense, no practical point of this bill has, apart from the name, you know? The name, really, is "energy efficiency." We're all for energy efficiency. But I want to tell you right away why he came up with such a "cheese" bill. Because the authors of it and those who initiate it want to distract society from the main problem that our leader, Mrs. Timoshenko and the entire faction, today, claims to be the other deputies from the tariff problem. The kind of air you don't come to, you start discussing tariffs, you start robbing NAC Naftogazu's politics, you have to have MPs and say no, no tariffs, let's do energy efficiency, let's warm something up in the future. Friends, that's not how they do energy efficiency. And now very quickly, as it was 10 years ago, when the government was doing the most efficient work in the country, there was a state-run utility program, there was a program for the modernization of the heat utility, regional programs, government inspections, surveillance and allocated 25 billion to implement this program. That's the way out. Thanks, guys. We'll hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u63	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u64	Please give the floor to Deputy Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u65	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u66	Thank you. The distinguished Ruslan Alexiyovich, I agree with the previous speaker and other speakers that the declaratory norms that are they do not bring with them real changes and modernization of energy systems, buildings, etc. Well, look, essentially, if we're going to be between the first and the second readings, and in general, if you want to adopt this law, you also have to make changes to the Tax Code, the Customs Code and the Budget Code. Let me explain why. If we're talking about changes to the Tax Code in part of energy efficiency, and we've been paying attention to this over and over again, there should be appropriate tax benefits and preferences -- once, or lower tax rates when implementing energy efficiency measures, energy savings. The second question. Making changes to the Customs Code. It's usually going to be a supply-of-contribution-to-discharge, zero-to-customs high-tech equipment that's about to take steps to modernize and implement innovative energy-saving technologies. Well, third. The budget code, you have an article 18 here that defines the energy efficiency fund. But it's in the Budget Code and in the rest of the Ukrainian State Budget Act that you can finance such measures, co-finance and implement specific projects with energy efficiency, energy conservation. Then it will be an effective law when you make appropriate changes to three codes at least, and then it will be a complex whole law. Similarly, article 15, this is a strategy for the thermomodernization of buildings. It's a well-known fact that such things need to be done, but in our view, the lack of a resource base will not allow Ukraine to solve these problems fundamentally. So our faction will be held in the voting of this bill. Well, the suggestion to the drafters of the bill is: make changes to the three codes, while at least your law will go away. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u67	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, everyone who wants to speak? Now, wait. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on the chess microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u68	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, a year ago there was a problem when miners came under the walls of Parliament. Today, friendly rows of miners with deflector hammers also wonder whether to go today or tomorrow or to pay a salary or not. As my colleague Bondar has already said, a billion 300 million dollars is debt. But if the miners come with the children, with the women, this illustration will really fall, and it will be a folk illustration. People are really looking forward to it, after all. Secondly, we're talking about energy. Please tell me how many times you can turn to collect, maybe round table already, both the Ministry and the PNDP that will make decisions, and the NCREKP, at prices in Lugansk and Donetsk areas for transit and gas and electricity. The price is 10 times more expensive even for a warlord.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u69	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Energy Efficiency Act (Journal of Laws No. 4507). As my colleagues enter, I remind myself once again of the sensory button and voting procedure. Please do not forget this, for the voice will not be counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Voice faction thinks otherwise. Ready? I can't hear you. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please. And you don't talk, it's useful. Then the sanctions, that's the story. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:58:18]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the activities of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation (Registration No. 3757). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:59:05]] For 221 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u70	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your point is a simple bill, but its meaning is also important, because you need to bring the Cabinet of Ministers into line with the requirements of the Constitution. Because the amendments to the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property since 2019 have removed the provisions on the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. And the reasons for this deletion were that the work of this commission, the status, did not meet the requirements of the Constitution. And at the same time, it was directed by the Cabinet of Ministers to bring legislation, regulations, including laws in accordance with this law and, in fact, to comply with the requirements of the Constitution. The work on the regulations was carried out. And the analysis of this array of laws and codes revealed that there is only one law mentioning the Special Privatization Supervisory Commission in the Cabinet of Ministers Act. And so the position of the project is very simple: it has been removed from the Cabinet of Ministers Act by mentioning the relevant Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization and in fact to be implemented in accordance with the Kabmen Act of Privatization of State and Municipal Property Act, and to bring it into line with the requirements of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u71	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Our committee considered on September 16, 2020 the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act on the activities of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization in the work of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. Having considered the bill comprehensively, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the adoption of the law as a basis and as a whole. If the bill is adopted as a result of the first reading, and in general, to entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, with technical and legal work. I'd like to say a few words of my own to the Ministry of Justice, especially. We're still looking forward to a comprehensive bill because we're spending the time of the Supreme Council on drafts in one not a sentence, but three words, I understand it's important, but I think we have a lot more potential with you to make some really complex legislative changes, considering that we already have three or four bills on the committee, initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputies, on amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Therefore, we can conclude from this request. And now the law to adopt, not to postpone it, it's been lying for six months, but for the future, so that we can work more comprehensively in line with the billing plan, especially, and so on and so forth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u73	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u74	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u75	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u76	Thank you for saying that. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, surely we will support a bill that is truly purely technical. It is unfortunate that, when we amended the Privatisation Act and removed the Rules of Procedure for a Special Privatization Commission, we did not, at the beginning of the chamber, propose a comprehensive amendment to the Ukrainian legislation, which mentions the commission. Clearly, then, the bill should be adopted. But we need to look a little bit wider. Because I don't think it's just this bill that can contain it. It would be good for the profile committee to see if there is any mention in any other legislative acts that deal with the relevant privatization issues. And this bill we will support. Indeed, it's a bill that's exactly equalizing the situation. It would be a good thing that things that are, in fact, terminology, we're more complex, not only about the commission, but also about making changes to the Cabinet of Ministers or other legislation in general. Because, with all due respect, this is not the subject of a separate bill. You could have it at the level of some kind of amendment in any other law you want to pass. However, given that this is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Profiles supports, the faction has no objection to supporting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u77	Thank you. Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, this bill is indeed of a more technical nature. So, of course, I'm backing up, and I'm offering to support everyone. But I would like to say a wish in context that we pay more attention to the efficiency of government and municipal property management, not to other things, not to privatization. Because this, I think, is the last thing we have to do. First, we need to learn and administer effective government and municipal property. But since colleagues sometimes allow themselves to use time not for the purpose of speaking up for or against certain bills, I will also take advantage of the possibility. And I want to tell my colleagues that they're allowing themselves to be misspoken. For example, a few minutes ago, one of the MPs in the audience spoke out of proportion about our speaker. So please don't forget about the MP's ethics and don't forget that you're in Parliament -- the country's top legislative body. And you can't have that kind of distraction. I understand that maybe you didn't hear it because I wasn't talking to the microphone, you're saying "in the bushes." Talk to the microphone. Take the word and speak into the microphone, and answer for the words. I'm going to propose to the Ethics Committee that we actually consider the possibility, maybe if we hear it on other records, and for these things, we're going to take action. And so I would like to tell some colleagues who allow themselves to be called invalid by our President at the time of the bill discussion and tell them that he has to go away. So please, if you're not comfortable with what's in the country, look in the mirror and go away! Because we've been chosen by people, and you don't have to decide when to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u79	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. I see Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, in fact, the bill is correct. Indeed, you will not find Parliament’s right to do so in the Constitution. But I would like to remind you that this is another bill that actually limits the control functions of Parliament. If anyone doesn't know, I want to say the key things that have been approved by the boards of control on privatization in previous years. Full investigation into the illegalization of Black Sea Sailing. Investigating and stopping the privatization of the gas transport network. This was also done by the Privatization Control Commission, while governments and presidents in this and this bed sat still and looked at it. I'd like to remind you of the latest cases: the illegal privatization of the Zaporozhye aluminum plant. This is exactly what the Parliament's Privatization Supervisory Commission concluded when the courts then overturned the illegalization of this plant by some Mr. Deripasco, who put the plant down and left thousands of prison guards unoccupied. And there are dozens of such examples. The work of Mr. Filatov, now the mayor of Dniper, as chairman of the commission, stopped the privatization of the illegal city in dozens of Ukrainian cities. Yeah, we don't seem to have the right to do that, but what the law enforcement system does, what other authorities do, the same Cabinet of Ministers, the President's Administration. I think we need to draw a conclusion. And if such functions in Parliament are taken away, even in a legitimate way, to whom are these privatization control functions now transferred, when even the list of companies not allowed to privatize so far is not legal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u81	Rudik? Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u82	Parliamentary-President Republic, you say? Humorists! The Ukrainians, this majority, who sit in these first ranks while I was being prosecuted and prevented from exercising their parliamentary powers, on September 11, 19th, amended the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property, and later canceled not only this parliamentary commission, which was not just a small element of control of our hall, but of the impeccability that this government commission was doing to them by the government mafia, which was doing to them the third government mafia (this is not only the problems of today's power) was taking a stand. Today they call it a technical decision that does not allow a question to be asked on behalf of this government commission during the "hour of questions to the government." It's called a technical decision. It's not a technical decision. This is the last kilo of you, dear Ukrainians, trying to control this power. After canceling the list of restrictions on objects that cannot be privatized, which are strategic, and promising you, dear Ukrainians, that they will make a new one, and they have not done so. Instead, they gave the right to privatize defence facilities, privatize higher educational institutions, and yet they do not know where they will come from. Come on, Your Honor, the right of this great majority to vote in favour of this technical so-called decision. Let them continue to take responsibility for everything they do in this country. And you, dear Ukrainians, will give them a decent grade, I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u83	"The Voice" and "the OPCW" are two performances of motive. Haven't you done "Trust" yet? Chess. There'll be Shahov, and then we'll go to the vote. Three minutes and we'll vote. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to point out to you that it's up to us to vote exclusively on the basis. Since Article 34(1) should be edited not only to exclude the Special Committee on Privatization, but also to state that it will be placed on a professional subcommittee or committee that has just received functions after a decommissioned special commission, a function for the control of privatization. In our time, we've recently voted to amend the law just when we've ruled out this rule in our own time, said it's technical, and then we've separately prescribed the functions of a committee and a subcommittee dealing with privatization. So that's strictly the basis, that's the only way to do it. And the colleagues mentioned, and the government does not just ignore all these questions, the government has done a terrible thing: it does not provide a list of objects, strategic objects, that are not privatized for a year and a half. The list that is now proposed is a series of five supplements with a total number of more than 500 enterprises. But today this list is not approved. So the control functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u85	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u86	Dear Ukrainians, I'd like to explain which bill we're currently considering. We're considering one sentence that needs to be removed from legislation because in 2019 an appropriate law was passed. But do you know how much you care, dear Ukrainians? Over 1.5 billion dollars a year cost the work of the Supreme Council. And today we're going to talk for 20 minutes about one piece of legislation that applied in the 19th year. We do not discuss the law that applies to local self - government and communities. We've been asking questions for weeks, old man. We didn't come to the local administrations to bring in the manual office of the President. We're not looking at the Hali Vasilchenko Bill on 5 percent tax, community growth, local budgets, we're looking at 20 minutes of one tape. Dear colleagues, I urge you, first of all, to settle such bills with others as soon as they are adopted, this should have been done in 2019. And secondly, avoid 20 minutes of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u87	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, then we go to the vote. Please turn on the timer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u88	The "Trust" group requires the Ministry to set up a commission and in Parliament a temporary commission of inquiry into all the "acquired" that has been destroyed, starting again where the sun rises, the country's setting is Lugansk. Lissodda, Mechsecola, Glass, the Paxasnian Wagon, which is going bankrupt today. All the mines that were flooded during the Energy Deputy Prime Minister, who killed hundreds of thousands of miners, families of miners who went abroad like my parents. Investigate all businesses that today, and the land under them, is not even recycled. Neither the heads of the military-civil administration have even given a command to take charge of these lands and investigate crimes that have been committed in decades. Why is it that water is pouring into the Sea of Siberia today and that it may immediately reach the Sea of Azov?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u89	Let's go to the vote, please take your seats. The committee recommended the whole. One-on-one, two-on-one. Then we're just laying the groundwork. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the activities of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:15:56]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of the labeling of audiovisual works, phonograms, videograms, computer programs, databases (registration number 3474). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[1:16:41]] For 222 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture, Alexander Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u90	Honourable Head of the Committee, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's Amendment to Some Legislation on Cancelling Control Marks of Audiovisual Works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases is designed to reverse the current system of marking with control stamps of copies containing movies, music records, computer programs and databases on CDs and other material media. It is anticipated that the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Copies, phonographs, videos, computer programs, databases has become invalid and that the Codes on Administrative and Criminal Responsibility for the absence of Checkmarks have been excluded. It should be noted that neither the international associations of right-holders nor the national associations representing the interests of the music industry further support the use of stamps to mark phonograms in connection with the marked decrease in the volume of production produced on optical disks. Repealing such a system will allow them to take their opinion into account and encourage right-holders to apply more effective modern means of protecting copies and digital copies of copyright and adjacent rights, to combine several ways of protecting them, and so on, to make them unforeseeable and financially cost-effective for so-called "pirates" and to make them impossible to fake. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Michael Galina Olegovna, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u92	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, during the dijitalization period and the well-declared course for simplifying business conditions and promoting legal trade is appropriate to move from an outdated and ineffective mechanism of using printed stamps to place software on the media to more effective mechanisms for protecting the rights of rightholders, distributors of relevant products, and protecting consumers' rights against unscrupulous pirates. Time travels faster in the worlds of IT. In connection with the development of information and communication technologies and the use as a source for the distribution of copyright objects and related Internet service providers, the use of disks and laser reading systems as a medium for the distribution of audiovisual works, videograms, phonographs, computer programs, databases has been greatly lost. So today, the marking mechanism has lost its meaning and effectiveness. At the same time, national associations representing the interests of the music industry do not further support the application of stamps. The international intellectual property alliance insists that the system of holographic sticker markings should be abolished. Thus, the Committee on Law Protection adopted a decision at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill for registration number 3474 following a first reading review to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u93	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u94	Please pass on the word Podlasius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u95	Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, what we're talking about today. Control stamps are, you all know, all the shiny disc stickers and cassettes that used to distinguish license discs from pirates in the '90s. And you know that I am a consistent defender of intellectual property rights. But it's time to admit that stamps as a way of protecting rights are illusions. There are shadow schemes under which trademarks are illegally obtained, including the use of fictitious licence agreements. A large number of check marks are counterfeit. And a protective control element. the mark institution, despite a fairly high level of protection, is imperfect. Thus, violators are able to change the original holographic markings and use them to mark counterfeit products. In all of this, we're going to have a lot of requests for these stamps. If 14 million stamps were introduced in 2011, by 2020 less than a million. And we need you with us, including in this room, to focus on protecting intellectual property rights on the Internet primarily, because it's the main channel for the distribution of music, movies and so on. And here we have to say separately about coming to the state budget, because the budget in place doesn't get any money for issuing the stamps, because the applicant pays 17 copies, and the Ministry of Economics uses these 17 copies just to make the stamp, but it uses the administrative resource, the time of the Ministry employees. And as a state, we just have to give up what doesn't work, but it eats up our resources. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u97	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u98	Please give it to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u99	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, of course, it's a very nice bill, but I would like to address our Cabinet of Ministers, the employees of the Ministry of Economics and Development. More than a year and a half later, we met with Minister Dubilet Jr., and we worked out drafts for the introduction of QR codes for the production of alcohol and tobacco. Where are these bills? Where are the QR codes? What did you do for a year and a half? Why do we still have a contraband and other contraband in these, tobacco and alcohol products? Why are these bills not available in a year and a half? Why are they buried along with the Cabinet of Dubilets, and these bills, which, let's say, we don't need them right now, do you? I have a very important question for you. Although I understand that you're not even paying attention to us right now, I hope that you'll bring something nice to the Supreme Council so that we can look into it. And I extend a special greeting to the founder of the tariff genocide of David of Arahama. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u101	The word is given to the national deputy of Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In fact, the bill is needed because time and technology are moving forward. But I would like to pay attention to the quality of this bill for the authors, the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, when you bring statistics, how much has been published by the Ministry of Economics of Marks and gives the latest example in 2017 and statistics where 1 million 200 thousand marks were issued, and where is it asked, the 18th year, the 19th, the 20th? What? Does this suggest that your predecessors were still preparing a draft of this law? Next. When you point out when a bill becomes law and enters into force, you indicate – July 1, 2020. There is a procedure for entering into the law that is signed. The next thing you want to know. By this bill you cancel the obligation to obtain these stamps and leave the right to the publishers, the author himself, to determine how to protect this product. At the same time, you suggest that we abolish administrative and criminal liability for counterfeiting. The "Fatherland" faction in the first reading supports this bill, and the second is to work to make it really quality. But let's not forget that counterfeiting is, is, and, unfortunately, will be, and must be protected by the state of those manufacturers who are conscientious and still attract others to responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u103	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Royal Natalia Yuriovna, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, please pass the word to Grigory Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u105	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this law, if read in the hall, says that it is currently working on the protection and duty of the State to protect intellectual rights in the administrative code of the article and in the Criminal Code. This law essentially excludes that administrative responsibility, that criminal responsibility. And I want to say why. Cancels responsibility for the illegal distribution of audiovisual copies, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, including databases. For the time being, text messages on the phone are available to every MP: Buy that service, do something that is advertised. Everyone's paying attention. And no one wonders how their phone gets to those operators who advertise their services? And I'll tell you, and these bases are being sold. And for the time being, if the law enforcement agencies are unfortunately not working to the end to establish the fact that they are documenting and calling for responsibility, then we want to go further and take the guarantee to the state in the form of documenting the facts and attracting it to do so in the Administrative Code and the Criminal Code. That's the law on it. But in order for everyone to understand, if you move the old one, put a new defense, a new concept, a new responsibility, a new QR code, which they're talking about here from the rostrum, that's true. It's not appropriate at the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u107	Thank you. Alekseev, Aresonkov, then we go to the vote. Klimenka, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, this bill is really relevant. So far, the marking system is ineffective, it's obvious. Because, first of all, time is moving forward, and this branding technology is way out of date, and it's not very protective. And we need the manufacturer to choose how to protect his product. Secondly, it doesn't make any economic sense, because the budget is paid by the manufacturer for each brand of 17 copies, the cost of producing it is 62 copies, and the administrative service is paid for 1 bracelet 17. That's why this bill is supported by the faction "European Solidarity". And I would like to point out that article 176 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is not being repealed for violations of copyright and related rights. Thank you for your attention. "European Solidarity" will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is given to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, a group called "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, what is the activity of any controlling body, executive body, or self - government? First of all, it is creating conditions, normal, civilized, just conditions for the activity of all citizens, including economic, entrepreneurial subjects. This bill is designed to protect intellectual property owners, those who do business in this area. To create a normal competitive environment for them, and to protect them from those who are illegal today, using technical conditions, can print these stamps. And in this way, there is no effective protection for manufacturers. So we think that this bill, despite all its minor nuances, is useful and needs to be supported. The trust MP group will be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u111	Thank you. Klimenko, Voice, Julia Klimenko. And then we go to the vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill. Marks are way out of date. This mechanism is completely unworkable. But I want to make another point. We've actually got intellectual property reform stuck somewhere in the middle. And this is, unfortunately, very bad for the economy. Because without the right to own and protect intellectual property, there will be no growth in the economy. I would also like to point out that Ukraine is the world's largest pirate in fact, as confirmed by the report by the US Special Report 301 of the 2019 United States Trade Representation. We were and are and remain a pirate. So this is just one part of intellectual property reform. But please note the schedule. Let's bring out a normal conceptual reform of intellectual property and allow Ukrainian goods to protect themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u113	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to cancel the marking of audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases (Registration No. 3474). Ready to vote? I'm reminding you again of the sensor button. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:33:57]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Dubina – Servant of the Ukrainian People". Dear colleagues, Arahama is in procedure. The head is the Dubinian Alexander Anatolyevich. Arahami is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u114	Colleagues, I propose to put to the vote Bill 4298 on making some changes to local government administrations, because this is an important part of the decentralization reform that is currently awaiting many of the district councils that are now being set up. Pick him up in the morning above.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to move on to the 4298 bill now. Is there a denial? Then I put to the vote the proposal to change the procedure for consideration of matters at this plenary session, namely, to move to the consideration of Bill No. 4298. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:36:01]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we turn to the issue of amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations and some other Ukrainian legislative acts on the reform of the territorial executive organisation in Ukraine (registration number 4298). Ready to vote? It is suggested that we consider the simplified procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:37:07]] For 234 Dear colleagues, you have a good sense of humor. Next time we just turn it off and it won't work. All right, Yuri Grigorovich? Okay. We have a deal. Dear colleagues, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Bezhin Vitali Juriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u116	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, this bill is a draft law in the area of decentralization, territorial reform and, in fact, one of those that is going to gradually start the process of converting the rudiments of our institution, like district government administrations, district government administrations into prefectural organs. The draft law proposes to introduce in a new edition the Ukrainian Act on Local Government Administrations, as well as to amend the related acts. What we're talking about when we're talking about prefectural organs, because we understand that direct prefectures can't be introduced to the Constitution at the moment. However, we expect that, according to the President's instructions, the draft amendments to the Constitution will be sent to the session room as soon as possible. We offer a few things. First. It's about dividing the powers of administration into actually three parts. The first is, of course, constitutional authority. They're still executive organs, and we can't leave here. The second part is the coordination of the territorial authorities of ministries and central executive bodies. The third part is ensuring the legality and constitutionality of local self-government. But there are a few key things that are also added to the bill. The first is that we return the status of civil servants to the heads of the regime and the district administrations. We depoliticize the state's vertical to avoid conflicts that currently exist between government officials and local authorities. So we're actually taking away the wrong resentment that was adopted at the time of the previous summons. Besides, when we understand what we're saying about civil servants, it means that there has to be a selection procedure that has to be transparent. This means that a staff reserve should be created as a playground for the preparation of appropriate units so that they can actually develop an institutional state and be its guarantor in the territory. Similarly, we realize that the process of legality should not in any way be a substitute for the court and that there should be no involvement in the work of local governments. That's why we're prescribing a separate court procedure, but the head of the MDA, our quasi-perfect, he's not replacing himself in any way. It is appropriate to note that, in addition, on 27 November 2020, the Centre for Good Governance Expertise of the Department of Democracy and the administration of the Directorate-General for Democracy of the Council of Europe prepared a largely positive conclusion for the bill. At the same time, it has a number of observations, most of which are of a technical nature and can be taken into account in the drafting and drafting of the bill for second reading. Therefore, as a result of the consideration of this issue, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine (No.4298) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. I very much ask my colleagues to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in. Sofia Romanovna Fedina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u118	Sophia Fedina, please give the floor to my colleague, Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u119	Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, honourable colleagues, frankly, I'm very sorry that we're not considering this bill in full procedure, because it's worth it to be blown down into the dust and down into atoms and smashed into this session room. It's an unforgivable bill, my friends, it's not a transitional bill, it's a bill that's a new draft of the Law on Local Government Administrations, it's a fundamental amendment to the Law on Local Governmental Governmental Authority in part of delegated powers, it's in the Law on Public Service, it's rewriting a whole new set of other legislative acts. I am very sorry that this bill has not been considered by the Committee on Legal Policy in accordance with its Constitution, because at least two dozen of its provisions are grossly contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. At least read the conclusion of the science department if you don't trust me. Dear colleagues, without even being ashamed of it, the authors say that the purpose of creating a system of local administrations of a prefectural nature, in accordance with changes to the Constitution, which does not even exist. Dear friends, well, where it's published that there's not even a bill yet, and according to it, fundamental changes are already being made to the system of executives in place. Moreover, it refers to the need for this kind of change because of the fact that we have entrenched the areas, a decision has been made. I would like you to remember that this ruling is now being reviewed in the Constitutional Court, conducted openly, and not known what its fate is. And the same fate awaits this bill. Next. In fact, you're making general supervision, not even shy, you're saying that you have to re-create the function that you took from the prosecutor's office in the 16th year, and that's why you're extending not only to acts by local administrations, but to officials the action of the relevant rules of this bill. You're doing everything to actually make it impossible for the head of the administration to be released now only if he hasn't passed the local board's report. Is that where the constitutional standard says so? You grant the unconstitutional right of the President to reject the nominations made by the Cabinet of Ministers, which were to be appointed. This is where it's written, what's the constitutional standard?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u121	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Password, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u122	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, people are in shock. On October 25, the elections were held, the new representatives of the communities, the heads, the MPs, but only after the local elections did the discussion start about the old age that they should be, what powers they should have. Only after the local elections do we come to the question of local government administrations, only after the election does the Supreme Council decide on the area’s property as well as when to transfer it. And in places where people haven't been able to navigate, there's a collapse. Dear colleagues, in this room we're looking at everything in order: gambling, casinos, one-line bills, we're spending taxpayers' money, but what we're talking about in local government is tens, hundreds, thousands of people, and every Ukrainian, eventually. That's why we need to come together in this room, not through short-term procedures, not through dotted bills, but through full-time procedures, for a few days to discuss the complexity of local self-government in our country. As far as the Law on Local Government Administrations is concerned, it needs to be worked out. Before the second reading, there will be a large discussion, including the norms that contain a questionable constitutionality. But this debate needs to be opened because depoliticization of district administrations, depoliticization of district administrations, return to the status of civil servants and competitions are the principles that need to be returned. The manual management regime of the President's Office, which has often been used in district and district administrations, needs to be placed in a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u123	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, this bill has not been considered by Parliament in 30 years. What is the silence of the legal committee? 12 violations of the Constitution! Mrs. Sugarra, you are the head of the Constitutional Subcommission! Why is the legal committee silent? Take a look at the conclusions reached by the full legal authorities and all other authorities! 12 violations of the Constitution! Now it's clear to everyone why the city of Lviv, I'm going to the Voice, it's in the composition of the Lviv district. Now the decision of the Lviv City Council, now the decision of Zaporizki, Dniprovski, Mikolai, Odessa and all other city councils, you know who will cancel? District administrations! Moreover, they will be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Which court, read the law that you sign: the court is only 40 days away, and if the decision is made, it is in the hands of the court. What right did this law have to be put into the hall at all? This is the law on the destruction of local self - government. Why are the cities silent? Why are the heads of district administrations silent? You're completely cleansed! The "ministers of the people" lost the local elections, now you want to get that right back through the district authorities? Who chose the heads of the district administrations? Who picked the heads of the circuits. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are you afraid of if you don't lose? This law cannot be considered in this room. It directly contradicts the Constitution. Why did the legal committee fail to exercise its direct powers? I believe that this law should be removed from consideration. Then there must be a direct conclusion of the profile committee and send it to the profile committee. We will certainly not vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u125	Please, National Deputy Sapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich, MP for the Future Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Batenku Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u127	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we share the idea that this is an extremely important bill that is in the session room today. Despite a number of drafts that we have considered today, which are not priorities, this bill is a priority. And we believe that the mechanism for the work of local government administrations needs to be improved and modernized immediately in the context of decentralization in Ukraine. But at the same time, we understand that it would be better to follow the method of change to the Constitution. But we know and we see that there is no power, there is no will, there is no time, there are no voices to submit it now because of changes to the Constitution. We share the idea that district administrations should become organs of the perfect type in the part that the reporter told us. Both depoliticization and deportation, which will wait for the heads of the district government, are also on time. Well, enough already for the leaders of the ODA, which in the past, in the present tense, manage party organizations, regardless of what this party organization is called, give discharges and continue hand-in-hand to deal with all these issues accordingly. I think it's a long time ago. In addition, I believe that the bill's novelty is both progressive and risky, the issue of competitions, how honest and objective these competitions will be in this bill. Limiting the term of headship of local government administrations for three years. Well, it's also a question of debate, because we understand, on the one hand, it's a positive one, and on the other hand, if the term ends, these leaders will become parachutists in some other district government if they do, and they'll get into a region that they don't know. And acclimatization can take a long time. So a low level of governance also provides the basis for this bill to be worked out. We will only support it in the first reading, taking into account the amendments that will bring the bill into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u130	Larissa Mikolayevna. Coltunovich and Mikisha, I see. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, today we are considering an important bill from the decentralization package. He was preparing for a year. Local government authorities and district government administrations, all the steakholders of local self - government, were involved in the work on the document. A quality bill came out. Here, clearly defined powers at last between the district and district government are the regulation of the organization of the activities of each of them. And once this bill is passed, the head of the RDA will coordinate local self-government. He will not be compelled to do so, but he will be compelled to do so. And because of the trial. And he will only suspend those acts that conflict with the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't interrupt! Finally, we will have the head of RDA, not a political figure, but a state-owned, good public official from the human resources reserve, which the government undertakes to form in a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u132	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u133	Mr. Head, can I pass on the word to Kakato?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u134	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, first you have to ask yourself the main question. Is the law that we want to adopt today in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine? No, he's not. First question. And all those who vote with the green button today are voting against the Constitution. The other one. Say, please, under such good circumstances. in such good terms as to depoliticize the work of the heads of the administration. We're doing the main thing today -- we're in the middle of crippling local self-government. Because every prefect, the so-called head of the administration, who is now appointed not by the local people, not by the people who live in these territories, but by the so-called "decents" appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers or the Bank, will have the right to cancel and terminate the decision of every community they seem to be leading there today territorially. And then only after the court hearing will a decision be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u137	Thank you. I'd like to address all of these like supporters of the Constitution. At least you read it as it is written, not as you wish. I recall that the Constitution states that local government administrations have the right to oversee local self - government in part of delegated and of their own authority. This law exclusively prescribes the mechanism of this oversight. That's the first one. And the second. The thesis that we are now politicizing is that we are entering for the first time in Ukraine that the head of the local government at the sub-regional level will be a civil servant at the district level, not for political reasons, but under the State Service Act. So read more carefully and do not manipulate, please, for this law is right, necessary, urgent, and must be adopted. Please support all your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u138	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, please. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the reform of the territorial executive organisation in Ukraine (registration No. 4298). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:55:59]] For 229 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next issue is the bill amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (registration number 4376, 4376-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:56:47]] For 224 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Zivický Dmitry Aleksijovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (registration No. 4376), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is being tabled for your consideration. In order to organize passenger transport by road by the executive authorities and local authorities in accordance with the new administrative and territorial arrangements, the bill provides for the delegation of authority for the organisation of passenger road transport from district government administrations to district government administrations or executive committees of the local councils of the territorial communities. The draft amendment to article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act suggests that the provision of passenger transport is based on: on international bus routes of general use, as well as on bus routes of general use that go beyond the areas of the area (cross-police routes), to the central authority of the executive authority that provides for the formation and implementation of State policy in the field of transport; on bus routes of general use that do not go beyond the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the area, as well as on bus routes of general use that go beyond the territory of the territorial community, the so-called internal district routes, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the district government administrations; on bus routes of general use within the territory of one territorial community (urban or suburban routes) to the executive committee of the local council of the territorial community; On the bus route of general use of direct communication, Kiev is the international airport "Borispil" – the Kyiv City State Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u140	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Infrastructure and Transport, Negulevski Igor Petrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u141	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, at its meeting on 17 February, reviewed the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (Registration No. 4376), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and an alternative draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act on the organization of passenger transport (Registration No. 4376-1), submitted by the People's Deputies of Gorenuk and others. The drafts were designed to change the order of passenger transport by road by the executive authorities and local self-government authorities in accordance with the new administrative and territorial arrangements. It should be noted that the bill’s distribution of powers among authorities is similar. The Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, the Ministry of Community Development and the Territory have no comment on the draft legislation. The Ministry of Justice supports Bill 4376 as proposed and comments on Project 4376-1. The main scientific and expert administration believes that the formulation of the alternative bill 4376-1 is more effective. The Ukrainian Integration Committee with the European Union reports that the projects do not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations. The Committee on Budget Issues concluded that bills had a direct impact on government budget indicators. As a result of the work of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Ukrainian law registration number 4376-1 to be accepted as a whole and to reject project 4376. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u142	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Excuse me, National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorenouk Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u143	Congratulations, fellows of honor! Gorenouk Alexander, "Slut of the People" faction, center of Clothing. We are now considering a bill that is designed to ensure quality public transport work in the context of decentralization reform. I remind you that since July last year the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine has been changed. In this context, Ukrainian legislation requires changes to a number of legal acts. One area that needs such changes is the area of passenger transport. So there was a point, a technical, but very important bill that was designed not to allow the emergence of a legal colossal system after the establishment of new organs after local self-government. As noted, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine has also registered a bill designed to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Law. But it is worth noting that the bill proposed by Kabmin has a major flaw. For example, in the text of the Kabmin bill, he operates on the concept of "the united territorial community (OTG)" in all cases when it comes to new territorial communities. Although according to the Ukrainian Act on the voluntary unification of territorial communities, the concept of OTG covers only those communities that have voluntarily merged and the communities formed by the decision of Kabmin are not united in terms of the current legislation. So far, all of today's communities are de jure formed by the decision of Kabmina, not by voluntary unification. There's a huge discrepancy in terminology in the MIU bill, but our bill, which is an alternative, is clear in terminology in the context of decentralization, it's supported by a profile committee and it has a positive conclusion from GNEU. Colleagues, I ask him to support and vote as the basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u144	Thank you. Please take a seat, Alexander Alexandrovich. Frolov Paul Valeriyovich is invited to attend. You don't? Bori Viktorovich's alien.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Savichuk Oksani, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u146	Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I would very much like everyone to support this bill as an alternative, which is supported by the committee, 4376-1. You know, after the decentralization reform, we need to sort out a number of standards for road transport. And in general, we need to pay special attention to everything we have going on around the country with transportation competitions. Different gang robberies for who's to drive and who's to drive passengers, a large amount of uncalculated cash, not going to an electronic ticket are all the challenges facing local self-government today, first, and the newly elected heads of state administration in places. Public transport must finally turn, and passenger transport, into a quality service that should be provided to a population for which we actually pay fairly high tariffs. At the same time, transportation needs to be safe, because very often we have people completely uninsured about what kind of transport they're driving. Third. This is cleanliness and control over the quality of transportation we transport our residents throughout the country. That's why we need to start this process, make changes and strengthen the control of carriers on the quality of service, first, on compliance with all sanitary standards when transporting and on the transition to e-tickets and transparency of competitions. Then everyone will feel that finally passenger transport is a quality service, not just passenger transport service at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u148	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the distinguished national MP, Mr. Kacny Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u150	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, indeed, this issue needs to be settled. But neither in the first bill nor in the second one do we see the main issues: How will those carriers who will be selected be legalized. First of all, it has to be real. These are the criteria that are used to take away whites, so-called white carriers. Do they have their own vehicles, or do they have their own bases? That is, the kind of bologna that should distinguish them from those who have the ability to just rent some buses is not new and then provide inadequacies. The other one. Tell me, please, what you said to the city of Kiev is the route of Kiev-Borispolis, although Boryspill is in the Kyiv region. Why aren't they giving 50 by 50 routes in this direction? So it's completely incomprehensible which criteria will determine this transport. If certain transport issues are referred to the central authority, we are once again removing ourselves from the local authorities, from local self - government to determine how and who will do this quality service for the local population. That's why these bills, I think, need serious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u152	Klimenko? Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. And then we go to the vote. I see, Bondarev. Who else? Batenko after that. And let's go to the vote. Please turn on Klimenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u153	Klimenko, the Voice faction. We're going to support the alternative bill 4376-1 because we think it's more correctly spelled out, and it's going to allow passenger routes to work and transport immediately, and it's going to solve the problem of changing the territorial system, the administrative units, but we've forgotten to really change the actual processes that are now in OTG in the areas and in the areas. So the admin has changed, and everything else has remained the way it is. And a lot, it's not just about transportation, it's about hospitals, it's about courts, and a lot of things that weren't designed in the administrative reform. So we're going to support 4376-1. But also a colleague please note that the registered is deeper, I would say, a bill that speaks of passenger public transportation, that my colleague has just spoken, that deals with many issues that are now absolutely necessary in order to have quality and safe passenger transport. So, colleagues, after this bill, let's start looking at a more serious reform of passenger public transport. Because right now it's turned into some kind of, I'd say, a big gangster cash market, the circulation of this market is estimated, illegal, about 40 billion dollars. So, colleagues, let's move on, for this Bill 4376-1, we vote in favour, and we can even, in general, take technical rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Bondarev Constantine Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u155	Bondarev Constantine, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, today medical reform is gaining medicine, education, land agriculture and finally territorial in order to get everyone. Today you can't come from the village to the center, you have to figure out first, and what is a reicenter? Today, some authorities seem to be gone, while others have not yet been built. Who should identify with the routes? Remember Brovary, we'll start all over. Today, however, there is something that needs to be done and reformed. This bill, which we have been given today, at least takes a step to correct something. I propose to vote for an alternative, because it is more clearly prescribed, and our faction will support an alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u156	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, Bill 4376 does not really change much of Ukraine's car transport system. What is more, as I recall, yesterday we were asked to remove it from our minds at all and send it out for further work. He's not saying anything in the cataclysion system, the cataclysion system with transportation competitions and transportations themselves. However, I think there's a good bill where our colleagues are co-authors and what my colleagues said before, 4376-1, and our MP group is proposing to take it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? The committee recommends the basis as a whole. Is there a denial? Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (Registration No. 4376-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:12:28]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to cut the line. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the reduction of the half-life of the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation of the second reading of the bill (registration No. 4376-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:13:10]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to eliminate contradictions and clarify the definition of a leasing operation (registration number 3601). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:13:51]] For 213 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Ms. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u159	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! Bill 3601 proposes to eliminate contradictions and clarify the definition of lease leases. The project proposes that natural persons be excluded as being able to provide financial lysing services, since the economic operation can only be performed by a legal person according to the Ukrainian Master Code. Also, to add to the right to use the lysing property, the right to own property, because the property is actually passed on to the lysing holder, and the owner of the foreign property is the person who actually holds it in accordance with part one of article 397 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. And the term "core funds" is also suggested to replace the term "core funds." Following a review by the Committee on 15.10.20, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the elimination of contradictions and clarifying the definition of a leasing (ordinary) operation (register No. 3601) (from 05.06). 20 years ago. Please accept the bill as a basis. Thank you very much. Please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u160	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u161	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, this bill "European Solidarity" will be supported. The first is that it is designed to eliminate certain contradictions spoken by the reporter in the Tax Code. The second important question is that the project proposes to clarify the content of the concept of "leasing (rent) operation", "operational lysing (rent)", "financial lysing (rent)", by establishing that such operations can only be performed by a legal person, not by a natural or legal person. Four. It's worth noting that the concept of a lease. The operation" refers not only to operating and financial lysis (rents) as in the bill, but also to reverse lysis (rents), rentals of accommodations, rentals of housing with a ransom. Therefore, the ban on such operations on individuals is in fact a significant narrowing of citizens’ rights, which is unacceptable. We will support this bill accordingly, and between the first and second readings, we need to take into account both the GNEU recommendations and what I violated in the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u162	Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Lubinci Dmitry Valeriovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u164	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future will be held in the vote for the bill. We will explain our position in such a way that the flaws of the project are too serious, they cannot be removed when preparing for the second reading. I ask all colleagues to read carefully the conclusion of the GNEU, where there are huge remarks. The main thing is that, first of all, such changes can only be made with regard to the definition of financial lysing. Similar standards are contained in the text of Ukraine's draft Financial Lending Act, which has already been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and addressed to the President. Instead of other types of lysing, such a ban is not established, so we see a direct contradiction. For example, according to the Civil Code, both a natural and a legal person can be a lysing contractor. Instead, the law makes it clear that this operation, an economic lysing operation, can only be performed by a legal person. So why are we adopting two laws that apply to one business that conflict with another? Instead, I point out to all the national MPs that before that we have voted on a bill that, as I said before, is now aimed at signing the President, and the adoption of this law would be contrary to him. For example, according to the lease agreement, a lysing contractor may be, as I said, both a legal and a physical person. Thus, such contradictions cannot be corrected when preparing for second reading. We understand that, we read the laws. And the MP's Party for the Future, understanding these disputes, will not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u166	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u167	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! The law proposes to clarify in the Tax Code the definition of lysing, renting, lysing, and rent, assuming that only a legal person can perform such operations, not a physical one. So it's actually suggested that we define the concept of lysing (rent) surgery to rule out natural persons as lysinglers. In this way, the existing contradictions in the Ukrainian Tax Code are anticipated to be eliminated. As a result of the adoption of the bill for the purpose of applying the Code of Taxation, individuals are excluded from the lysinglinguists accordingly. The granting of property in an operational or financial lysis will become the right of exclusively legal persons. This part of the bill is fully supported. However, it must be understood that paragraph 14 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which is amended, combines the concept of lysing with rent. The concept of lysing (rent) operations in the PCU text is general and applies not only to operating and financial lysing (rents) but also to rentals of dwellings, rentals with a ransom. In our view, in order to avoid this legislative coalition, it is appropriate to divide the definition of lysing and rent in article 14 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Moreover, these operations have different economic meanings and agreements on them also have differences. This can be done in the process of redrafting the bill for second reading. In view of this, the "Trust" MP will support the adoption of the bill on the basis of mandatory consideration of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u168	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u169	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u170	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u171	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of course, the subject of lysing is promising; it is an essential support for the development of entrepreneurship. Maybe that would help develop separate national economics. But we talked about this when we voted on Law 1111. Then, I'm sorry, we missed it, as they say. So now whatever we do, we need to correct that law, we need to effectively annul it, and we need to adopt the Basic Licking Act. But, you know, in the context of leasing, I want to now answer the questions of many of my colleagues, including those who argued with me in the studio. Everyone's asking questions, and where do they come from in the First Independent Hardware Channel that they're working on? They either leased or leased. So I want to draw everyone's attention to the next one. A month ago, we were made terrorists. When the terrorist was appointed a month ago, I was walking, and my companions were walking with this title of honor. Who are we going to be next? Traitors, traitors, collaborators, excuse me? And you prove something in court, one thing at a time. So, dear friends, finish this punitive vacchanal. And what happened to the First Independent, they didn't even get to the sanctions, they didn't hide that fig leaf as an illegal constitutional. A letter from the branch office immediately cut off the language. And I would like to express my thanks to the honourable head, the distinguished leaders of the factions, the deputy heads for today's decision to invite with an explanation what happened to the First Independent, the head of the BSS to meet with the leaders of factions and groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u172	It's not about leasing. I bet. Dear colleagues, may we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to eliminate contradictions and clarify the definition of lysing (ordinary) operation (Registration No. 3601). Ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:31]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act (Registration Nos. 4335, 4335-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:26:07]] For-198 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Fries Igor Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u173	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Igor Fries, "Serial of the People," Affliction. You know, I have one question for you right now. Listen to a little bit. Which one of you owns the gun? Although I think most people in the room have guns. Of course you can't answer that. Half of us have weapons, whether smooth or different, hunting or sports weapons, or carbines, or a traumatic device. Now, why is there no gun law in our country for 30 years, and we have guns? No wonder the weapons are outlawed today, and they're put in jail for them, isn't it strange? Meanwhile, there are 800,000 weapons owners in our country today, and there is still no Weapons Law. And for 30 years, we've been told that our nation is not ready, our society is not ready, and we can't be among those countries where the arms circulation has long been resolved. Because it is likely that when it comes to the Weapons Law, everyone thinks, not about the circulation of weapons, but about carrying, and only about short - term weapons, even though there are countless other weapons devices. Please tell me, who's got a gun in this room right now? Nobody. That's weird. Why? Everyone thinks you can just carry it around in this room right now. And weapons license, by the way, allows us to carry the same thing. Our bill allows for a lot of things, but the main thing is not carrying weapons, it's a circulation of weapons. My friends, our nation is long overdue. And society is ready for that law. You know, I'm not ready to say there will be voices. I'm asking you to support him. A lot of fairies we've been trying to dissipate for a long time. Please support this law, it's on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u174	It is given to the author of an alternative bill, the national deputy of Ukraine. Andrew Andryovich Sharaskin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u175	Oh, my God, hello! First of all, I want to address the citizens of our state, the defenders of these citizens, and point out what. The very right words were that we needed the Armouring Law. That's true. Next, everything that's spreading in the media and emotional manipulation is not true. The most important question today is what we consider to be our fellow citizens. This question is being considered today. There is a basic bill that I call for not to vote on or at least to abstain from it in all positions, because it is, in addition to the legalization and legalization of the existing system, which is composed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is an anti-natural monopoly on the entire circulation of the market for use and abuse. This is the first position. The second position that I'm looking at people's advocates to support an alternative draft law that says that, yes, we have to normalize the circulation. But we have to break the IMF monopoly, we have to split the registers, we have to have the IMF finally do its main function -- control and prevention. I want to say that the main position is, of course, the right of a citizen to protect his life and health, including with weapons in his hands. And this is what I call for to support all the people's defenders. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u176	The word is given to the head of the Committee on the Law Protection of the People’s Deputy Alexander Anatolyevich Danuci, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u177	Thank you, colleagues. As far as these two bills and the main alternative are concerned. The Committee on Law Protection considered at its meeting a draft law on the circulation of civilian firearms and ammunition, in particular the basic bill, defining appropriate terms and concepts: categories of civilian weapons A, B, C, D, E, depending on technical characteristics; types of weapons prohibited for civilian circulation; conditions under which natural and legal persons have the right to acquire arms held in civilian circulation and ammunition. The bill also provides for the creation and maintenance of the Single State Register of Civilian Firearms, owned by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This differs from an alternative bill, for the alternative suggests that the registrar should refer to Minust, who in the official letter refused to do so, stressing this. I will also issue the first certificate of the owner of the weapon for a period of 3 years and each subsequent extension for 5 years at the place of registration of the person or permanent residence, the presence in the designated Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of order, the inheritance of civilian and firearms and ammunition, the storage of civilian firearms and ammunition. In general, the committee is asking for the support of Bill 4335 in the first reading on the basis and the bill 4335-1 to be rejected. And the positive conclusions are basically only with observations, of course, just on the basic bill, and the alternative bill, it actually contains all the negative conclusions of all the relevant structures. But I'd like to say it myself. Friends, it's not a short-lived carabine bill, it's a bill of respect and dignity, it's a bill of respect for Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u178	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u179	Alexander Ustinovy, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u180	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, today is such a historic moment, because the Law on Legalization of Actual Weapons in Ukraine seems to me to have reached for the first time what is said and considered in the Supreme Council. I want to agree with my colleagues, who presented two drafts earlier, basic and alternative, and with a committee colleague, that these are actually bills to tell the truth to the people that we have weapons in this country. But if you are. That we have this weapon for the chosen now, because any citizen can't buy a weapon. But these weapons are given criminal authority at the hands of the minister of the interior as a reward weapon, they receive national MPs, they get power over the property. And an ordinary person cannot go and buy a weapon and protect himself. But if you look at two bills, they have one key difference, more faithfully, two. The basic bill actually legalizes what is now on the regulations, when the entire arms market continues to be controlled exclusively by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is now handing out weapons of crime as a reward. Take a look at the investigation of the journalists who are receiving these weapons in our country. That's why the Voice faction won't support this bill. Because if we still have only one vendetta in our hands, both licenses and registers, and in fact all the learning that is now, it's not normal, and it leads to abuse. The alternative bill suggests that the register will be under the Ministry of Justice. Determining who will be responsible, who will have access to the register, and who will issue the permits will allow the risk of corruption to be reduced, and this is very important. I understand that both bills need to be redrafted because there are some issues that need to be reconciled. But once again, the Voice faction won't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u182	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u183	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I'll allow myself one lyrical retreat. After voting today in the session room to expand the authority of the RDA heads, one of the city heads of the Lviv region recruited me and told me, and now hand over the weapons. In fact, my dear colleagues, I'm talking first of all to the noble colleagues of the great majority. Consider how the people of Ukraine were promised to consult the people on the most important issues. Earth, the gaming business, some other things, and today it's a sensitive question. Because really, if you ask the people, it's more than 70 percent against. I'd divide that question into two parts. First. Is the Ukrainian community ready for a neighbor to have short - cut, fire - fighting weapons? And the second. Is the state ready today during a period of economic crisis, during a pandemic to protect the citizen and guarantee the right to maintain the right, control the weapon, and guarantee its carrying, driving, and so forth? In fact, today, according to the IMF system, which I agree with my colleagues is imperfect, 1 million 300,000 owners of firearms, including all kinds of hunting weapons. What, though, is a device used to shoot rubber bullets? It's not a device, it's a gun, it's a traumatic weapon, and we know different. How many, who today have the right to own it? Large categories of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u184	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u185	Please give the floor to the national deputy Guza Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u186	Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u187	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin, MP for the Future. Dear friends, right now we're going to vote for me, two very important bills, and this is a very important issue for Ukrainians, really important. And that, thank God, is that we got to him on our 30th anniversary of independence. I think the question is right. In fact, the arms circulation needs to be normalized. I will personally vote for two bills: both the Sharaskin Bill and the Fris Bill. But I want to say here my position and the position of millions of Ukrainians. You have to give every Ukrainian the right to protect himself. Period. Today, it is said that we have a legal 300 million weapons, and how illegal? So much so. Today, when a rapist, a robber, or a person who wants to kill you comes to your home, you have no right to defend yourself legally. And this man will rape you, rob you, kill you. The Ukrainian must have the right to defend himself is the most important argument. Of course, people are frightened, but people need to understand that a mugger and a rapist are going to kill someone tonight because a million legal weapons and so many illegal weapons. We, the Parliament, should sooner or later come to a situation where we must grant the right to all restrictions and so forth, but to protect ourselves, our family, our friends, acquaintances and our lives. That's why yes is the legalization of firearms. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u188	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u189	Dear friends, there's a lot of talk about self-defense, about human rights. So here's what I want to explain, this law is a little bit more than that. And they have nothing to do with one side of that agita that's now being distributed in the hall, and they don't have it directly on the other side. First of all, this law doesn't answer the main question: it's wear, it's forbidden. Here, as they say, there can be no further comments. Next. In this law and what it implements, they'll be able to make all of them: safe-deposit manufacturers, card manufacturers, security signal manufacturers, and the rest of it. And this is seen with an unarmed eye. Thirdly, I'm very good at military law enforcement. Legislators have not forgotten article 33 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces’ Disciplinary Statute, to change it. We're talking about uncontrollable arms distribution here, so this change in the defense minister is allowed to hand out reward weapons for nothing without instructions. It's a separate matter of special accounting. I can't understand why such respect for the IMF and such a monopoly on a special count of weapons, such as the Armed Forces. Let's set an example to balance in the state, put it on a special account at the Ministry of Defense, for example, for all IAF vehicles, as an option, and also for the military account of all police officers. The point is that it's not about weapons, it's not about protection, it's about legalizing the questionable licensing schemes that are currently in operation with the IMF. And the events of the last days, they clearly illustrate, in a mild sense, the troubles that are now taking place there. And the last one is application. If you think that if you have a home and you can use a weapon, no, the law clearly defines self-defense and no property protection. Instead, in the Transitional Positions, which few people read, it is clearly stated that now a supermarket guard who will be armed with civilian weapons will be able to use it against you if he thinks you're committing a violation. Do you understand? A person, two weeks of courses, will determine whether you're committing a violation or not. Thus, the law is considered unacceptable, unacceptable, and distorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u190	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, do you need the Armouring Law? Yes, I do, really. But this law is not about the circulation of weapons, it's about the circulation law. about the sale of firearms. Just for sale. It's the only thing, the only goal he's reaching. They lie to your eyes when they say that Ukrainians, our citizens, cannot protect their own homes. Maybe there's a long-range weapon, it's there. And if we vote on this law, we're going to raise the degree of every small domestic conflict to the level of fire. They'll be dead. The woman who leads the baby out of the garden, the father of the young man who goes home to his children, they're going to be random victims of a domestic conflict near some ABB store where armed people are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u192	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I will not personally vote in favour of this bill, and the faction will not support either. Why? In fact, there is a remark, and we are the only country that does not have an arms law. We have the Explosives Act. It really is. But in my opinion, as an expert involved in the arms investigation of crimes involving the use of weapons of all kinds. At present, without this law, Ukrainian citizens have the right to acquire all firearms except short - standing firearms. My position is simply that let's bring in the circulation of firearms that operates on instructions, by law. And the issue of short - standing firearms will be resolved after testing the law. That'll be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u194	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u195	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Well, finally, in the room, those bills that cause all the excitement, the reaction is certain. Summarizing what the colleagues said. Do you need a bill, a law that regulates accounting, weapons use, storage, and so forth? Yes, I do. Do these two bills decide what I'm talking about? No, of course not. You can't vote for them. Maximum, send the Chief to the Committee of Law Enforcement for processing. And to the end. To the proponents, let's destroy the IMF monopoly on accounting, storage, arms issues. You're joking about the fire. Under the conditions of the country, let us further destroy this system and bring about complete chaos. So we're working on these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-04-m0.u196	Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Civil Weapon Circulation and Ammunition Act (Registration No. 4335). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:48:20]] For-88 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Law (registration number 4335). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:48:50]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative for the drafting of the bill (registration number 4335). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:49:27]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of draft Law registration number 4335-1. Ready to vote? Can I have a vote? [[14:49:57]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should send one of the draft drafts to settle the issue. Colleagues said that there would be no short stories at all. Do I get it right? Ready? Right? I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of the draft Law registration number 4335-1. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:50:48]] For-173 The decision is not taken. Is it worth it? You don't have to do that, do you? The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the agenda is 4336, also related to weapons. Can we put it to the vote now? Is there no objection? Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Act on the circulation of civilian firearms and ammunition. (Registration No. 4336) Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:51:55]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Is there a need to continue? None. The law is rejected. We have eight minutes left. There is a suggestion to make a renaming. Is there no objection? We don't get into the new law, we have eight minutes left. No discussion? Next question is registration number 3630. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? Vote? Offer both on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons without Nationality on the submission of biometric data to foreigners and non-citizens for the processing of visas (Registration No. 3630). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:53:15]] For 323 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons without Nationality on the Submission of Biometric Data to Foreigners and Persons without Nationality for the Formulation of Visas (Registration No. 3630). We're voting on the basis as a whole for technical legal rights. Ready to vote? They voted as the basis, yes. That's all there is to it. Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:54:11]] For the 320. Decision taken. Are we going to vote on the renaming? No, it's not. Who's against it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's put it this way: 2715, is there a denial? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are your objections? Do you all have objections? [[B in m in s a l in]] 3624. Needed Discussion? Can we vote? Okay. I realized that I was opposed to changing villages. All right, all right. Windman, it's a deal. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Law on the Courtship and Status of Judges in relation to the introduction of electronic employee employment (registration number 3624). Ready to vote? Based on what I said. Please support and vote. [[14:55:42]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you. It's a bill. Well, there's no point. Processing, we had another question. Will the Queen insist on the performances? You don't? Can we get some more work done? Wait, please don't hang out. Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. The plenary session is closed.
