ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, distinguished, respected media outlets, respected spiritual leaders, respected diplomats! Dear colleagues, I invite you to the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of President Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelenski. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I invite the children, the winners of the "Independence of My Country" competition, organized by the Education Centre of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the children from the territories that border with the occupied regions of our country to bring the Flag of Independence of Ukraine to the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please sit down. The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski, the national deputies of Ukraine for the first and ninth appeals, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the presidents of Ukraine: Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, Viktor Andryović Yushchenko, Peter Alexiovich Prashenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the heads of the judiciary of government, the presence of officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and agrees to serve, the heads of the regional councils, the Kyiv City Head, the President of the National Academy of Sciences, the Presidents of the Supreme Council of the Churches and the civil authorities of Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The President of the Senate of the Czech Republic, Milos Wystrčil, Head of the National Council of the Federal Assembly of the Swiss Confederation, Andreas Ebi, Parliamentary delegations of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Georgia, the Republic of Estonia, the Kingdom of Jordan, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Turkish Republic, the Republic of France, the Czech Republic, the delegation of the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the World Congress of the Universities of the United States and the European Parliament. Dear colleagues, the summit meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act, I declare open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Thank you all for participating today in the event of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was here 30 years ago that an independent democratic state was created. Dear colleagues, I now invite you to the floor of President Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelenski of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Dear participants, guests of this important meeting, ladies and gentlemen! Many generations of Ukrainians struggled to make these words a reality. Today, we will say these words many times, we will hear these words, but we will never tire of them. With Ukraine's Independence Day! [[Applause]] On her 30th anniversary, I welcome you all! This date was made possible by the MPs of the first vocation present in this room today. I think we should all thank them very much today, thank you. [[Applause]] You know, especially symbolically, their applause is now revered by the national deputies of this vocation, which was not even born on August 24, 1991. Today I was talking about the fact that that day, an important day for our nation, a warm day, had taken place in the restoration of Ukraine’s independence. The restoration of the statehood of Ukraine. And I signed the decree on the observance of Ukrainian Statehood Day and I'm introducing to your consideration a draft law that should be the day of departure. [[Applause]] In my view, it is very important not only to celebrate the emergence of nationalism but also to unite to preserve it. Our great Ukrainian family is united by the family of Ukrainian national symbols. These are three brothers: the State Flag of Ukraine, the State Herb and the State Hymn. They are bound by articles of the Constitution of Ukraine and are linked at the level of national subconscious. The anthem of Ukraine is our soul, the wisdom of the next generation. We thought we were in control of our party and seven. For the seventh year in a row, we lay our soul and body for our freedom. Seven years in a row, we do it. Because it was forgotten that not all of us are as hostile as the dew of the sun, but we have not forgotten what kind of person we are, and so we will definitely smile at fate. [[Applause]] And our destiny, our destiny is our coat of arms, is entangled a thousand years ago on the trident of Grand Kyiv Prince Vladimir, which is also the modern Herb of Ukraine. It's a simple four-letter cipher. Someone probably didn't see him, but someone knows that for sure is will. Will! Because our destiny is to be free! [[Applause]] And our will is our Ukrainian flag, and Kramatorski, Mariupol, Slaviansk, Lysichansk, and dozens more freed from the invaders of the cities and villages of Donbas. In other cities, other towns will also have their will. Will will be done in Crimea, because this is our destiny, the fate of an independent Ukraine. [[Applause]] I know you're going to have an extra session today, and you're going to be looking into the issue of the Great State Herb. It was to be represented today by the first president of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. I want us to support him now, it's very important that we support the first President of Ukraine. It's his idea, his dream. I think he deserves that kind of support for your applause. Make sure he's healthy. [[Applause]] And a country like Ukraine certainly deserves another symbol. Thank you very much. Hello again! Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u3	The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u4	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs for the first summons! Thank you both for yourself and your colleagues for all that has been done so that we can celebrate today, celebrate 30 years of independence. [[Applause]] Dear guests, dear colleagues! Thirty years ago, the Supreme Council Hall approved the Act of Declaration of the Independence of Our State. Not for the first time or for the last time, the Ukrainian Parliament has demonstrated that, in times of the greatest transformations and trials, it is always with the Ukrainian people, it always supports and moves with the Ukrainian people. This act brought in the desire of millions of Ukrainians who lived on their land but did not have their own state. Hundreds of years later, trials, wars, struggles for the right to exist, we had a dream of our own state. It never faded or disappeared; there were always those who carried it along the path of our common history. We were trying to turn into a lawless territory. We've been trying to prove that we don't exist as a nation or a nation, that we're just some small part of something big, and we just have to hurry up and make peace with it. We did not submit or accept, and finally on August 24, 1991, history was arranged in its own way. Ukraine is independent and unique. [[Applause]] And today, 30 years later, despite repeated efforts to destroy and destroy our country. We can say that the Ukrainian people have proved not only their right to exist and to independence but also their ability to protect and preserve it. Only someone who knows our history poorly can say that our independence has fallen from heaven, that it has reached us almost free. That's not true. Independence is always expensive in both the lives of any person and in the life of the family and more in the life of the state. Our ancestors paid a very high price for freedom. The same high price today continues to be paid by our contemporaries, giving away the most precious things that every person has — his own life. The thing is, independence is not something you can get as a gift or as a gift and you can keep it forever. Independence cannot be bought in a supermarket or in a stock market. Independence is the highest privilege of the people, the right to belong to themselves and to build the future of their country according to their own principles and visions. That is why independence is something that we need to carefully support, develop and strengthen every day with every action we take, every step on the way to the future. From the early days, we built our independent state on a number of unbreakable principles. Independence for us is freedom. In Ukraine, the social and political order of authoritarian or dictatorial self - indulgence has never been used or enjoyed. A person for human economic freedom is what we value the most, it's what's embedded in our consciousness, even from the time of Cossacks and free cities with the law of Magdeburg. And the state in our mind exists precisely to protect and strengthen human rights. This is something our enemies cannot understand. We are different from them because for us, the basics of democracy, the rule of law, the principles of equality and respect for human freedoms, without dividing by nationality, religion, skin color or social status. Independence for us is unity. We were formed as a unitary state, the only and indivisible in our territory. We have a consistent decentralization policy, we respect the specificity and uniqueness of each region, we care about the development of dozens of national cultures that exist in our country. But we have a state on our own. A country that is called upon to protect the diversity of the country while protecting and strengthening its integrity. That is why we never acknowledge the occupation of Crimea and the so - called pseudo-state formations in our eastern state. [[Applause]] And we will stand up for our territorial integrity, even if we have to do it on our own. I am sure that from these walls, where the Ukrainian Act of Independence was born, there will never be a document that would violate territorial integrity or give birth to national interests. [[Applause]] Because territorial integrity, the unitary form of state, the inviolability of borders, are all the bases that you built 30 years ago when an independent Ukraine was created. [[Applause]] Independence is a democracy for us. And I'm not talking about honest, free elections right now. I'm not talking about the choice of the Ukrainian people to move towards Europe, which is the civil choice of our society. I'm talking about literally translating the word democracy, which is the right of the people. This means that it is the Ukrainian people who will eventually determine where and how the country should move. The Ukrainian people have proved this repeatedly, reminded politicians and authorities that the 5th article of the Constitution is not just a text on paper, and this is a law that will always be implemented, whether the authorities want it or not. It was, it is, and it should be. I am not tired of repeating that the law must be one for all and in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, both outside it, both in this hall and on the streets of our cities. Let us work so that we do not have to remind the Ukrainian people of this correct truth. In 30 years, Ukraine saw many things. There are probably no such numbers of nations in the world, or there will be few countries that have been tested with such power and scale in the first three decades of their independence. But there's a general rule that worked in relation to any event in our history. Ukraine moved forward as politicians and the community adhered to the basic principles of our nation’s foundations. On the contrary, as they deviated from these principles, the country lost and weakened. We remember moments in our history when politicians forgot about freedom and dignity. We remember when they ignored the territorial integrity to achieve their political goals, when they were willing to stick to each other from different regions just to strengthen the so - called electoral nucleus. I remember moments when people were forgotten about the authority of the people, using disgraceful principles as they deviated from the smallest moral code, and this led to disastrous consequences. We also remember when the authorities forgot whose mandate they had and for whom it should work. And the authorities should always know that, not as they did in the history of our nation, when the people's mandate was used for their own wealth. But at the same time, we remember the lively chain of assembly, the approval of the Declaration of State Sovereignty, and the adoption of the Act of Declaration of Independence and Birth of the Constitution of Ukraine. We remember the soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the volunteers, the volunteers who from the first days stood up for our nation at the beginning of the war. We are reminded of the victory at Eurowachen, the exit of our team to the World Championships and the European Championship. And of course, we remember our recent victories at the Olympic Games. Remember, too, those laws that have been passed by the constitutional majority in this room have, for the most part, been directed towards overcoming the pandemic and reducing the negative effects on people both biologically and economically. Ukraine was moving forward only when both citizens and authorities certainly appreciated human freedom acted as the only whole regardless of the place of birth and political vision. And that's what allowed the country to move forward, to achieve success and victory. This, I think, is a major lesson in the history of our independence, a lesson in power, for society, for each of us with you. The lesson we need to learn and remember is to remember. And to continue to move the country forward, increasing the welfare of its citizens, strengthening state institutions, weight, and meaning in the world. We're 30 years old. People who were born. Children born on Independence Day, in an independent year, are now old enough. They mostly have families, they have jobs, they have education, they have some life experience. So is the country. She may have already lost her childish naivety, through great trials. For some reason, I learned from my mistakes and gained experience, sometimes very bitter. But we're only 30 years old. That's why we've got a lot ahead of us. And it's up to you and me how fast we're going to grow. We're not kids anymore. But we are a young country and a young nation that builds its own future, not without mistakes and disappointments, but with a clear purpose to remain in this world as we are and as we want to be. Lena Kostenko once wrote, "And you thought Ukraine was that simple. Ukraine is great. Ukraine is an exclusive. It's all over the stories. It's got all kinds of trials going on. It's packed with the highest garret. In the conditions of today's world, there's no price for it." In this statement is a big one, but sadly, a bitter truth. But I would like to wish the country, on the day of its birth, fewer trials and problems that we faced and so many, and more moments of joining the nation than on that day, 30 years ago. Happy birthday, country! With Independence Day! [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine is invited to the floor for the first summons, the diplomat, the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine, Vladimir Petrovich Križanivski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, I was one of those who came to this hall on May 15, 1990, after the first almost democratic elections. I wasn't a prisoner of camps, I wasn't a corporate boss, anymore, I wasn't a member of the party, I was just a builder engineer, but I was one of those who responded to the call "If not us, who?".. About us, Shevchenko probably said, "We just walked, we don't have a grain of lies behind us." Some say that we are the founders of this state. It's not like that. This began with the great princes of Kiev, starting with Danil Galicki, from Lubarth Hediminovich, from Bogdan Hmelnicki, it began with the Fourth Universal, which declared the Ukrainian Republic. Dear Mr. President, I think you'll be upset and your guests will also that none of those who voted on August 24 will be at the reception for the anniversary. But, I think. Wait. I think it's the boys and girls in your office who decided to use my mom's saying, "and without Gretz, the water will be holy." I think this is the last time they do anything without consulting you. [[Applause]] I mean, some people say that independence has fallen from the sky. That is no longer the case. When we hear the cry of "Glory to Ukraine," we always say, "The Hero of Glory!"but it is glory to those who moved us to vote on August 24th. This is the glory of the Cossacks and the peasants of the days of Hmielnick and Vygowsky. This is the glory of Mikola Kibalčich, this is the glory of John Mazepi, this is the glory of Philip Orlik, this is the glory of the UNR Army General Mark Bezrekka, who saved Warsaw in the 20th year. It is the glory of my father, my brothers, my sister, who, along with millions of people, fought and gathered one of the two fears of that century — Nazism. It is the glory of those young men and women who fought and died in the forests of Western Ukraine for the independence of Ukraine, for the congregations of another horror of that century to be the Stalin regime. That's why in 91st year, we had 370 communists, a fantastic monopoly, and 80 national-democratic deputies were able to negotiate, reach consensus. We were able to have 80 percent of the legislation of an independent state on August 24, 91. And that's why we voted with the communists on August 24 for an independent Ukraine. We've seen different Ukraine, they've seen independent communist, we've seen independent democratic, but independent, not a new union agreement. I want to remind you of the first lines of our Constitution: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, is a people of all nationalities." Remember, all of us Ukrainians, a people separate from the Russian people, did not see our great - grandfather, did not think that the king was good, and the fighters were bad. We Ukrainians proclaimed Gethtman yesterday, and three days later we only remembered the first four letters of "get out." We are such a people, unlike the Russian people at all, let this be remembered by the depraved master of the aggressor. Mr. President, I have great respect for the 73 percent that voted for you during these elections. They were hoping that you could make a deal with this Kremlin gentleman, and I'm sure you thought that would be the case, but it didn't happen as you thought. They let us go without blood in 1991 because they didn't have the right power, they cost $10 a barrel of oil, now armed with teeth, Russia dreams of seeing us back in its blades. So, Mr. President, we're building a strong, undeniable Ukrainian army. [[Applause]] We continue to reform, we build the real Ukraine that these people need. Now I would like to address the deputies of the "Serve of the People." I taught you a little bit in Truscawicz about parliamentaryism, but I didn't tell you the main thing, the great English woman Thetcher said, if you become a leader, you become a slave to your subjects. Therefore, do not keep this in mind, for it always ends with authoritarianism and dictatorship, working as slaves for the benefit of this nation. Members of the undemocratic opposition, once in 97, one of your leaders, I explained to you by night what we need this independence for. He doesn't seem to have understood it that way. You may be and be in opposition to power, but not in opposition to your people. Opposition Democrats, at last, do not unite in anticipation of the shooting, give my brothers a hug, please, please, please. And the last. I want to turn to our young people, they've grown fortunately free people, so vote, go to power, build a new better Ukraine. Remember that the main thing for you is not to be indifferent, or your destiny will be indifferent. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Petrovich. The people’s deputy of Ukraine on the ninth vocation of our nation’s independence, Koval Olga Volodymyrna, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainians, Mr. Presidents, representatives of the clergy, representatives of the diplomatic corps, guests of the solemn meeting! It is a great privilege for me to have a word today as a representative of a young generation of politicians who are an equal to Ukraine's independence, and I am extremely proud of this opportunity. Our generation knows no other state than to be independent. Now the independence of the state is a personal freedom for each of us: freedom of faith, freedom of thought and freedom of action. But the reflection of the historical tragedies of the Ukrainian people will always affect each of us, our choices, our opportunities, and our future. I remember well when the story of the Ukrainian people first came into my life. Then my little five - year - old grandmother told me about the famine, and I, the little child, did not understand how it was when there was no bread crumb in the house, and then I first learned that our people were trying to break, our people tried to conquer the totalitarian regime, but we were unbreakable when it came to our freedom, we never gave up. And even at the worst of times, we all knew that we were going to win. Perhaps many years later, but eventually it did. This faith was fought by the Kyiv high schoolmen under the Kruts. Condemned by the Soviet regime, Vasil Stus wrote, "I'll turn to death." They, the Celestial 100th and thousands of Ukrainians, have become angels of independence for our future. They will forever be watchers of our freedom and our conscience with you. Independence is not given to us. We paid and still pay every day and every minute. We want to live, but our neighbors want to see us dead. That leaves us with too little room for compromise. In these words, Kyiv Gold’s native Meir appreciated quite different geopolitical realities, but she inadvertently determined the course of Ukraine’s efforts to combat Russian aggression. The world is changing reactively, creating new and new challenges. And in order to win, we all have to be not just presidents, we have to be Olympics, do things faster and better than others, like our fellow Olympic champion Jean Belenjuk. [[Applause]] Independence is a condition that needs to live, to feel like an integral part of your soul. Independence is the primary responsibility. Independence needs to be defended and strengthened daily to pass on to the next generation a rich and powerful nation in which it wants to live, where it wants to create, learn, work, give birth to children, that's our job. In this room there are prominent Ukrainians who have proclaimed our statehood. I thank each of you! Our strength. [[Applause]] Our strength in the unity of generations, in the balance of life’s wisdom and youthful perfectionism. For the first time in our country’s history, this number of young people have been involved in the government, creating conditions for fair competition for young and experienced politicians. We began to influence political processes in our country. And it is we, the 30-year-old generation, who are proud of belonging to our nation, and we want to live in our country. Over the years, we have all grown up to be valuable because after several powerful revolutions, Ukrainians have felt the power to change the course of history, and so to change their own lives. Society has always longed for change, and now it has given the young generation a chance to show themselves. This is a great honor and even more a responsibility. We are guided by European values regarding human rights, the guarantees of its development and its freedoms. Our challenge is to take a European course for a wealthy, protected, safe country. Our goal is a strong, successful country in which educated, healthy, wise, honest people live, where the rule of law prevails. And all of us together, I'm sure, will build such a country. Our success will be the success and triumph of our own country, our own daughter-in-law-Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u9	Heroic glory! Thank you. The Director-General of the Security Service of Ukraine from 2014 to 2020, active participant in the security of the state in the area of the ATO, OOS, Minister for Veterans of Ukraine Julia Anatoliyovna Laputina. Dear colleagues, the only request is to follow the rules. I understand that we have a special meeting, but still.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u10	Mr. Head! Mr. President! Dear participants and guests of the celebration, with Ukraine’s Independence Day! [[Applause]] A century of dreams, a century of struggle, a century of suffering, pain, hopelessness, hopes. But 1991 proved that the parliament, where the people who spent most of their lives under the totalitarian Soviet regime made their own decisions and the dreams of hundreds of generations of Ukrainians were being realized. Why did this happen, and why is this possible? Because Ukraine has all of us in our hearts, in our blood, in our souls at a genetic level, it cannot be destroyed. And the honor is great to you. On August 24, 1991, it was also my father’s birthday. I remember that day when we saw from the black and white screen that we had a nation born, and the whole family circle just got up, and I didn't feel that way once in my life. My father said, "I won't, I knew when to be born, but Ukraine will always be." Unfortunately, since the age of 30, we've had an eight-year-old war solved by Russia's aggressor, and we've already had in the modern history of Ukraine the dead for independence. I propose to honor the moment of silence of all those who have fallen for independence, sovereignty and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. I remember these days in 2014. On the hood of my battle machine, the Ukrainian flag along the way we met the same military men who were sitting on Beempeks, Tanks, BTRs, and they also had a Ukrainian flag on them. We went to the roadblocks, gave the boys everything we had, and the local people brought us apples, coffee, and tea. It wasn't about food, it wasn't about products, it was about connection. And then we were one, no matter what, we didn't have that kind of constant command in the military, because we know what was going on. For years our army has been destroyed, but military technology can be destroyed, it can be sold out, but it is impossible to destroy the spirit of a soldier who lives in each of the Ukrainians. Volunteers, volunteers, the military have made the feat real, they have liberated much of our daughter and Luhansk. And I hope for our victory. What have we become in these years? We got stronger, our army got stronger. We have girls and men. And it's not really just words, it's about Ukraine's national security. [[Applause]] Because when they get a level playing field, they get a level playing field to ensure the country's security. I hope for our victory, I hope that the next 30 years will be the years of a successful independent sovereign Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u11	Heroim Slava! The Internet Youth Internship Programme at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Master of the National Academy of Public Prosecutions, National Academy of State Administration at the President of Ukraine, Olena Sergiyevna Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of all appeals, members of the government, judges, representatives of the diplomatic corps, high-ranking rulers! Dear Ukrainians, my dear Ukraine! Today we celebrate the anniversary of the restoration of your independence, she's 30 years old, almost like me. And all these years there are those who still question your independence, say that you are forever being taught by foreign friends and others, that your decision depends on personal and other borrowings, and that I am also told that I am dependent on the thinking of my environment, career prospects, and even my changing girlish mood. We don't care because we know the truth. Three decades is a solid piece of time. I know that this significant anniversary has moved many of us to sum up our years. And before our eyes again came a kaleidoscope of events that is a special subject of pride. But I have to admit, a lot of memories make us bitterer than the field, because independence is not about a full stomach or a thick wallet, it's about the right to be yourself, to cherish your identity, to stand on the watch for the rights and freedoms of your people, it's about the responsibility for your own life and the fate of future generations, it's not about being a puffer to a stranger's master, an obedient doer of his will, an injured wanderer with no family or tribe. The realization of independence is not limited to the majority of blue and yellow flags, the eloquent speeches and the grand concerts. This imposes a number of duties that the Ukrainian State should learn to properly do, say firm yes and unappealable no when it comes to national interests to anyone and under any circumstances. To look at the issue of language and history only under Ukrainian optics, to think strategically and to make long - term development plans not to lie on shelves. To assume that only one who is irresistible can count on victory. My own country, strong and independent, we know the truth, and it is that we depend on each other in love and only together we are truly free. I want you to know, I'm proud of you and I'm ready to protect your interests all the time, because this is the future of the Ukrainian people, my future. The head turns from the amount of work that lies ahead. But I am convinced that bravers and strategists are successful. And we're most comfortable with one of the lines of Lena Costenko's novel: "We're soldiers. Not ice cream. Don't lie down. And our work is righteous and holy. Because who for what, and we for independence. So it's hard for us to do that." Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u13	Heroic glory! The National Deputy of Ukraine, a candidate for historical sciences, is invited to the floor by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Helen Konstantinovna Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u14	Dear Mr. President, Madam President! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, holy Fathers! Representatives of diplomatic missions, honored guests, respected associations! I understand that I am speaking today at this solemn and historic session of the last one. So first of all, I want to share what I've heard and what I've seen, with my feelings, with my feelings of pride and hope. Proud that we were able to unite in this session hall, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the founders of modern independence, with the young generation, with the children, with the beautiful children who brought the Flag of Independence here. With those who have already been born, indeed, in sovereign Ukraine, and upon whom we place the glory of our Fatherland in the future. We are, indeed, witnessing a unique moment with you. Once again, after my previous statements, 30 years ago, independence was declared here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is where the Constitution was adopted and the main national symbols of our country -- the Flag, the Trident and the Hymn -- were approved. I know that it is in this Chamber of the constitutional pro-European majority that Ukrainian deputies are voting for Ukraine's accession to the European Union and NATO, because we, Ukrainians, the great European people, have too much to pay for our independence, and we, Ukrainians, are going to do everything we can to bring back the land stolen by the enemy in order to increase the happiness and greatness of the Ukrainian people. Repeating after Olena Telligo the outstanding Ukrainian poet shot in Baba Jar during the German occupation of Kiev, I believe that strong states stand on the inner unity and power of the people. In the name of the millions of Ukrainians who have put their heads in the struggle for the Ottoman Ukrainian State, we must take care of our unity, our responsibility and our honesty, our honesty before ourselves and our people, and we must not postpone tomorrow the decisions that we can and should make our citizens’ lives better. As we build our country, we need to look forward, to our dreams, and to tomorrow, we need to support one another and stop looking back, searching for images of disunity. It is to the unity around shared values that I urge us to unite today — the equal rights and opportunities of men and women, freedom of speech, democracy, peoples of government, and parliamentaryism. Ukrainians with their mother’s milk receive dignity, strength, and thirst for freedom, freedom, and justice. That's why we have to make sure that the rights and freedoms of every human being, equal opportunities for self-implementation and everyone, and each one become the same symbols of our state as our Flag, our Hymn and our Herb. I believe that we are building a country where the status of the state language is undeniable, and the authorities should set an example of respect for the Ukrainian language. [[Applause]] Because without language and modern culture, it is not possible to build a strong and self - sufficient state. Our pride is our strong, fearless army that will protect Ukraine and set an example of true heroism. They are volunteers and volunteers, professional military men and women, hairless young men and strong men who had already held their grandchildren in their arms to stop the invaders. Our army has become the foundation of independence, and our strength must be the economy. Because modern and successful societies are no longer built just outside the borders. The struggle is for people, for their minds and minds, for their talents, for their meanings, for their ideas, and for their strong communities. That is why we must adopt laws in the interests of the Ukrainians. We finally have to allow our talents to develop in Ukraine. And indeed, among us is Jean Belenjuk, the Olympic champion. And that's an inspirational example. The same is true among us Jan Zinkevich, Sergey Sobolev, Ivan Hare, Dmitry Pavličko, Julia Laputina, Roman Costenko, Andry Sharaskin, Mustafa Jamilev. And we deserve the greatest victories. The disgusting thing is our patience, our habit of refusing and refusing everything. That way, everything can give up on us. The brilliant words of Lena Kostenko are more relevant than ever in the era of dynamic changes in the world, as are changes in Ukraine. Patience for imitation in all things begins with the resolutions of Parliament here, too, fighting corruption, ending with whole branches of power, costing us a lot and a lot of money, years of lost opportunities. Simulation is an enemy of the quality changes that Ukraine deserves. The changes that have been fought in the arenas and now stand up in the trenches in the east. And finally, I would like to encourage everyone to realize the great value of trust, trust in each other, trust in society, trust in public institutions, which we also lack more than ever. And you don't have to complain all the time. We just need to take the lead and restore this trust by our own example, the new code of ethics, real good things, openness and transparency, closeness to people and to their real needs. The formation of confidence in society is, in my opinion, a major challenge for all organs and branches of government for the coming decades of independence, for lack of trust is eating, breaking, undermining our freedom and independence. No one said of course it would be easy. The happier Lubomir Guzar said, "The love of Ukraine is a beautiful slogan. You can say passionate words about love for Ukraine, it's not binding on anything, but you need to love Ukrainians, people of this country -- it's love for Ukraine." So by celebrating today in this room, let me, on behalf of all who live in Ukraine, who appreciates our independence, thank all the Ukrainians and friends of Ukraine around the world, our wonderfully hardworking people, the people with the bees in their palms and the Aitism, who often cannot explain what they are doing, but they achieve wonderful results, the teachers who make love to Ukraine with the first letter, the doctors who face incredible trials and the fathers of various denominations who pray for Ukraine every day. And we all want unity, and victory, victory of good, victory of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m0.u15	Heroim Slava. Thank you, Helen Constantine. Dear colleagues, after the ceremony is over, I would like to remind everyone and invite them to a joint photo shoot to be held at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, once again, I welcome you all to the festival, to health, to success, to strength, and to victory. The ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act is closed.
