ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished journalists, honored guests! I salute you, first of all, with Flag Day! [[Applause]] We're talking today about the fact that it's not just a flag -- it's a flag of victory that is now majoring over the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He also wanted to be a major in the district government of Donetsk, Lugansk, Sevastopol, and Simferopol. And that's where we'll figure it out. All with the holiday again! [[Applause]] Please have a seat. In connection with the requirement of 165 Ukrainian national deputies, submitted in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, for the convening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation and in accordance with article 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations today, we are holding an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation. The National Deputies of Ukraine proposed to consider at the next session the draft Decision (registration number 5775) on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the European Parliament, the governments and parliaments of foreign nations on the strengthening of international cooperation within the framework of the Crimea Platform to Counter the Aggression of the Russian Federation. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the heads of the judicial branch of government, the officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who are appointed, appointed, and appointed. Representatives of public organizations, representatives of the media. The next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by highly respected foreign visitors who are on official visits to the territory of our country. President of the Senate of the Czech Republic Milos Wystrčil. [[Applause]] Head of the National Council of the Federal Assembly of the Swiss Confederation, Andreas Abbie. [[Applause]] Parliamentary delegation of the Republic of Austria, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Georgia, the Republic of Estonia, the Kingdom of Jordan, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of France, the Czech Republic, the delegation of the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the World Congress of Ukrainians, the heads of diplomatic representatives of foreign States and the heads of representatives of international organizations accredited in Ukraine. Please welcome all the guests again. [[Applause]] Please sit down, colleagues. People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, as always, that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first left-hand button for using the sensory button. Is everyone ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[16:06:16]] There are 272 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I declare open the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to speak. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u3	Good day again, dear fellows! Good afternoon, fellow foreigners! It's Flag Day for us today. In fact, this year is filled with festivals, sign dates for our nation. We've recently celebrated with you in this room 25 years of constitutional approval. Tomorrow you and I in this room are going to celebrate the anniversary of our state's independence, 30 years is a serious enough time period, we've passed it, we've passed it together. Seven years ago, part of our territory, part of our land, and most of it, part of our people were stolen. And today we continue to fight for a return and for justice to be found in the world. But it's always hard to fight one, so we have to do it together, as we can, if we want, in this room to work, so we have to do it together with our friends, along with our partners. And today the Crimean platform, which starts its work, should have three components, without any of them it won't work -- it's a parliamentary dimension, it's a presidential direction, it's a government direction. Only through this joint effort will we be able to achieve the outcome that we all want in this room, beyond it and in all the civilized countries of the world that know what the rule of law is, respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. So I am very grateful that our colleagues who joined the work of the Crimea Platform are here today. I hope that after a while there will be more representatives of Parliament in this bed, because we plan to have a permanent dialogue within the framework of the Crimea Platform on Parliamentary Measurement. And that's why today, at the request of the people's deputies, we're here to adopt a decree. It's a big start, but it'll be a win-win. That's why we won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the President of the Senate of the Czech Republic, Milos Wystrcyl, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Today I was able to join others in receiving you in Ukraine, in Kiev in a significant event -- the inauguration of the Crimea Platform, the inauguration of a force that would help Ukraine regain sovereignty, restore territorial integrity and integration. Your President, Mr. Volodymyr Zelensky, in his own words, said that in 1944 you went through a genocide, a tragedy, from your native territory, and that the Crimean Tatars were deported. At the same time, he expressed his wish that this would never happen again, saying that he thought it would never happen. Sadly, the situation is different, for the time being, from their own area of Crimea, citizens who grew up there, who lived there, who were Ukrainians. When I heard your President's words, I mentioned what happened to us in Czechoslovakia in 1938. At the beginning of October 38th, our citizens were then, still Czechoslovak citizens, expelled from their land, from their homeland, where they lived, because it was no longer our land, it was annexed by Hitler's Germany for two reasons. The first reason was that Hitler tried to take over Europe, Asia and the whole world, he had huge ambitions, he was a dictator and a usurper. The second reason was that, so I'm saying here, that then Czechoslovakia had a deal with its friends, with the friendly countries that betrayed it, didn't help the country. And there was a historic event called the Mikhov Treaty, within the Mikhov Treaty, the Sudeta region went to Germany, to Germany. This was because we were betrayed by our partners, not supported by Czechoslovakia at the time. Then the war came, and tens of millions died, and after the war, the united armies brought us back to our territory. Thank them for that. Why am I mentioning this here? I remember this because, first of all, you can rely on the fact that the modern Czech Republic, the Czechs, well know the situation you're in right now and well know how difficult it is when a large country tries to violate your sovereignty, to annex some territory. And I assure you that the Czech Republic is on your side. Because we have no other option than to support each other than to fight together for our freedom, independence, freedom and democracy. And the second reason is that right now it's more important than that second reason. After the Mechov agreement, there was much written about it. And one sentence, which in the eyes of the Czechs characterizes the Mechov covenant and is the reason that the wound in our souls is still deep, says that the Mechov covenant was about us, but without us. And I would very much like to and I'm very glad that the Crimean Platform has come up so that in the case of Ukraine it doesn't happen that the issue of you, Ukraine, is being resolved with us. Because that's the only way we're going to be free. Only then will it be that the lions, as Lord Mustafa said, will the jackals cease to howl. Hold on. We're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. The Head of the National Council of the Federal Assembly of the Swiss Confederation, Andreas Abbie, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u7	[[Presentation in a Foreign Language]] . and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I am very moved by the honor of speaking before your Parliament, I have been moved since the beginning of this session, and the music has touched me and the wonderful performance of the national anthem. But I was also very emotionally impressed today, and I was very emotionally impressed that, along with my colleagues in the Swiss Parliament, I was able to place a crown at the grave of an unknown soldier to the sound of a military orchestra. I was once a commander of the Swiss army, and when we slowly, step by step, we moved to this great monument, and every step means the duration of war, the suffering of the Ukrainian people. I realized the suffering that the Ukrainian people suffered, and we will never forget it. I was also moved by a monument near the Memorial of the Holocaust of 1932-1933. I'm a peasant myself, I'm a farmer, I'm a farmer, I'm a farmer, I'm a farmer, I'm a farmer, I'm a farmer, and I've had the opportunity to grow crops, and I've had the opportunity to lay the crowns. I am fully aware of what it means to be hungry. I will never forget that day, and of course I will tell my countrymen about it. On behalf of Switzerland, I would like to thank Ukraine for the Crimea Platform initiative that we support, and at the same time, I would like to extend a warm welcome to you with the 30th anniversary of your country's birth. More than seven years have passed since the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation to violations of international law, and the time has come to unify and intensify Ukraine’s efforts and international partnership to restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity and position in line with international law. For Switzerland, Crimea was and remains an integral part of Ukraine. Anxiety sufferers are primarily the local population, as well as those who were forced to leave the peninsula. The information available on the situation of human rights in the Crimea over the past seven years presents an incomplete and grim picture, including freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, numerous indictments, such as the Crimean Tatars, which are based on Russian antiterrorist legislation and violate human rights and the rule of law. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights also criticizes the conditions of keeping watch, which in some cases qualify as cruel conduct. In addition, according to UN reports, they are subjected to torture. The Russian Federation, as an occupying state in Crimea, must fulfil its obligations to ensure respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. The Crimea platform is called upon to make a concrete contribution to improving the situation of these affected people and to contribute to the achievement of the main goal of putting an end to occupation as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u8	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Head, personally and from colleagues. And for today's speeches at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and for the support that we see from your side, from your countries. Thank you again. Let us move on to our direct work, fellow believers. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen! Expensive international partners! Dear Ukrainians! The liberation of Ukrainian territories from the Russian occupation belongs to the fundamental priorities of our nation. And it is vital that this priority unites us all. The international platform of Crimea’s invasion is in complete harmony with our principles and goals. And we are deeply grateful to all countries, including those present in this room, for forming a global coalition to promote Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. As a Ukrainian army, from the first day of our opposition to the Russian aggressor, we created and multiplied an international coalition of unity and solidarity with Ukraine. And it's very important that we understand that we fought about Crimea and Crimea from the beginning of the February-March 2014 occupation. And before the Crimea Platform, an international coalition was created, and now it needs further development on its basis. The Kremlin will not be able to jump off the hook of international responsibility for trying to annex Crimea, which was exactly what it was, this work of the Kremlin's responsibility began in March. At that time, the United Nations adopted a resolution by Gennasemley to support the territorial integrity of our nation. And 100 countries of the world in Gennasmley supported us. Without a March 14th-year resolution, it would be a lot harder for us. Similarly, it would be more difficult if there were no annual resolutions of Gennasamelia on the state of affairs, on the state of human rights in Crimea, on the militarization of Crimea and Sevastopol, on the militarization of parts of the Black Sea, the Azova Sea, and so on, but without the Crimean Declaration of the 18th United States, the so-called Pompeo Declaration. Without a court ruling, the United Nations International Court of Justice, where Russia is to be held accountable. And now we need to unite our efforts to plan clear steps, and this year we need to hold a special meeting of the United Nations Gennasamley with a clear agenda to be endorsed by this international coalition. Thank you, and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u10	Heroic glory! Let's go to the draft regulation (registration number 5775). Dear colleagues, according to the previous agreement with the MP factions and groups, we have up to three minutes -- the reporter's speech, up to three minutes -- from the committee. And since there's a tight schedule today in the Crimea platform, two minutes each is a faction and a parliamentary group. Is there no objection? Thank you. One of the initiators of the proposal, Ahtem Zeitullayovich Chigoz, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! Remarkable guests and our guests from the Crimea!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u12	Please start from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u13	Yes, this decree. I'm going to start with a speech by the Head of our Council on the Crimean Platform, where he made it clear that we're building a parliamentary measure on the Crimean platform. It's very important. We have already demonstrated to both society in Ukraine and to the world society that we are able to unite around the Crimea and solve the most important tasks. And they're in front. And I'm sure we'll do it. But I'm sorry, I'm going to talk about our guys, about our citizens who came in at night. Despite the pressure, an attempt at FSB intimidation, they came. This is the symbolism of the struggle that our citizens are demonstrating in Crimea. And that's important to us! [[Applause]] They'll have their way back. And we, some of us, know how it ends. These are terrors and prisoners, prisons, colonies in Russia. But regardless of that, we will continue to fight. And this is the basis for the return of Crimea to Ukraine. This is the basis of our fight, Ukraine, for Crimea! [[Applause]] I'm sure they're going to go even stronger than we are, because these actions that we're doing in Parliament, they inspire our citizens, they give our faith, and most importantly, the hope that Crime will necessarily be released. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u14	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] Have a seat, please. A colleague is sure to speak from the Voice. Dear colleagues, reporter one. Dear colleagues, we will give the floor to the speeches. Please. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Alexander Alexandrovich Netezko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u15	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is today proposed by the Group of People's Deputies of Ukraine, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the European Parliament, the governments and parliaments of foreign states on the strengthening of international cooperation within the framework of the Crimean Platform against the aggression of the Russian Federation. The purpose of the bill is to approve this appeal, which will allow for the strengthening of international cooperation within the framework of the Crimean Platform to counter the aggression of the Russian Federation. The involvement of international organizations and their parliamentary bodies, governments and parliaments of foreign nations in the parliamentary dimension of the Crimea Platform will give further impetus to the process of depopulation temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meeting reviewed the bill and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's suggestions. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to hold the committee's decision and to adopt a draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the European Parliament, the governments and parliaments of foreign states on strengthening international cooperation within the framework of the Crimea Platform to Combat the Aggression of the Russian Federation with the proposed Committee's amendments and additions and taking into account technical legal rights. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u16	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. It'll take up to two minutes. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u17	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, honored by our international friends! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of this draft ruling, and I urge the entire Ukrainian Parliament to vote in favour. Today, not only is a new international venue being created, but a new international format is being created, which Ukraine is addressing all of our international colleagues, international friends, to emphasize: "Crime is Ukrainian! Yes, it will be!".. We thank our international partners for coming and showing our support today. But what I'm saying to you is that the Crimean Platform in history will begin with the murder of a Ukrainian hero. When you came to Kiev yesterday, a Russian sniper shot us on a collision line in the Donetsk region killed our military officer, and that happens every day. We have one problem, it's called: The Russian Federation. Russia took Crimea from us and is trying to take Donbas. We're talking to you, we're not asking you to fight for us, we're fighting for ourselves. But support us, support us with diplomatic methods, support us with economic opportunities. We're not just fighting for ourselves, we're fighting for the entire civil world. We're showing that Ukraine is now around the world, so please show that you're next to Ukraine. And I would like the Ukrainian Parliament today, along with our friends, to appoint all the dead who have died, protecting both Ukrainian Crimea and Ukrainian Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u18	Thank you. Please sit down. Iriz Irina Vasilovna is invited to the floor. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests! There are topics that unite our Parliament -- this is the Ukrainian army, this is the topic of restoring the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. Remember, the Crimea Return Medal stands on February 14th, which means that Putin started his shameful operation on the theft of Ukrainian territories long before the "green men" entered the Crimea. And it's an honor for every Ukrainian politician to do everything he can to get the Crimea to be bribed to raise the Ukrainian flag. President Zelensky has presented a new award or a new medal for the legend of Ukraine. So, the legend of Ukraine in this room is Mustafa Jamilev, this is Ilmi Umerov, this is the legends of Ukraine that are doing everything today to share Crimea. [[Applause]] And our task with you, and taking advantage of this opportunity, is to tell all our guests that every international meeting on the Crimea platform should include the subject of the liberation of the Kremlin’s political prisoners. More than a hundred Crimean Tatars, Putin now holds in his prisons, children of Crimean Tatars today lack the support and social guarantees of the state. Our task with you is to adopt the Law on the Status of Kremlin Prisoners to help them. And this is really the theme that our team started by creating and reforming the Ukrainian army, creating and reforming the diplomatic front to free Ukraine from the enemy. Russia is the enemy, Putin is the one who knows who. I'm not going to repeat the hit of the Ukrainian army, but I've heard it all over the world today. Crime is Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u20	Umerov Rustem Enverovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u21	Dear friends, let's be clear when Ahtem-aga says as the delegate of Kurultau to go -- we're going. So today I would like to welcome everyone to Flag Day. And if you have a desire to join, please, there is no opposition or state here, please join us. This is our Crimea, and we will fight for it. Today there was a summit of the Crimean Platform. We were joined by senior representatives of countries, plus international organizations. I would like to thank all the people who now live in the temporarily occupied Crimea for saying thank you for joining them, for not being afraid, and we have shown that as a state we will defend our territories, we will fight in the legal field, in the political field, in the diplomatic field. There are visitors here today, Kurultay delegates and Majlis members who know who will be crossing our administration today and may be taken over. I thank you for coming today to show that Crimea is with us. [[Applause]] This is a very huge signal for all of our international partners who need to know that Ukraine can fight as a state. And it's a strong state, a state that's going to be part of the EU and a state that's going to be a NATO country. We should always give signals -- it's a signal both internally and externally. I'd like to add a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u22	More than 100 years ago, the last German of the Ukrainian State, Paul Krapadsky, said that Ukraine cannot exist without Crimea, because it's like a torso without legs, and it has to join on any condition, either from a wide merger or autonomy, but it has to be defined by the Crimea. And, you know, the last. Sevastopol is not a city of Russian sailors, it is a harbor for our naval forces. They will come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Please have a seat. Have a seat, please. Krulko Ivanovich. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u24	Dear international guests, the Fatherland faction supports the draft statement and appeal to the United Nations, international parliamentary organizations, governments and parliaments of other countries. Of course, we all understand, those who are gathered in this room, those who are citizens of Ukraine, who do not trade territories and sovereignty. Territory and sovereignty, as well as security, as well as human rights, as well as democracy, are indivisible. That's what the "Fatherland" faction believes to be the main envoy of the Crimea platform. Speaking of Crimea, it is also important, as my colleagues have already mentioned, not to forget Donbas. And the question is, will today come to an end, tomorrow, and what will be the day after tomorrow? What will we say when we look into the eyes of those who are now sitting on this rostrum outside the council? Let us remember that successful foreign policy begins at home. So there is a agenda that should be such that peaceful integration is only possible when the standard of living, the level of medicine, the level of education, the well-being of Ukrainians is 2-3 times higher than the standard of living in the aggressor country, than the standard of living of those left in the occupied territory. This is what should unite the hall regardless of which political party they belong to or from which region of Ukraine they come from. There is much that needs to be done. Not just laws that are passed. But make sure that these laws are done together. Not against each other, but together. Then, indeed, the Ukrainian Parliament will carry out its mission and the parliamentary dimension of the Crimea platform will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Mesencing Maria Sergiyevna, do I understand? Mesenchev Maria Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u26	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, respected foreign partners, respected friends. Today, my heart is filled with emotion, and it is not as normal as it is at successive meetings. Today we are talking about the fate of the Ukrainian Crimea. Today, on the initiative of the President for the first time in seven years of this problem of occupation of the Ukrainian Crimea, we have been able together at a level of control through the measurement of the executive branch of power, the legislative branch of power, our international partners around the world, 46 countries in the heart of our country today were talking about the Ukrainian Crimea. It's not easy to talk about territory. Thirty - two political prisoners who sit in prison for articles of terrorism were referred to as crimes they did not commit, 90 Ukrainian citizens who are in prison in the Russian Federation. We are talking about the families of those who came to Kiev today who are searching for the truth. And parliamentary dimension is one of the tools to give plural, plural approaches to lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, bold human rights defenders, among international instruments, too, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, NATO, PARJE, who have already established support for the Crimea Platform. Friends, let's keep moving with the bills that have already received the constitutional majority and support, this is the Indigenous Peoples Act, this is the denunciation of the agreement that we had on the free economic zone with the Crimea, let's move in the humanitarian direction. As the Ukrainian Parliament, we welcome the President's initiative, his leadership in this process. But, my friends, we don't forget, it's all about the fate and fate of the Ukrainians. International partners, low downs for your constant support, tears of joy today. Thank you very much, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u27	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished guests, representatives of foreign parliaments, dear deputies, dear Ukrainian people! It's been 30 years since that great day was introduced to the Supreme Council by a blue and yellow flag, this great day, when blue and yellow flags were officially planted in many parts of our country. Over the past 30 years, the Ukrainian State has taken many steps forward, especially during the Dignity Revolution. However, the invader did not sleep, the invader annexed Crimea, the aggressor started a war in eastern Ukraine, and launched a machinist of repression against the Ukrainians. Today we are starting a new phase, today we welcome the first summit of the Crimea Platform, the Crimean Platform itself must be the real step for international diplomatic pressure on the occupation and the return of Ukraine's territorial integrity. Of course, we will not be able to return Crimea alone and stop the aggressor, so today we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are calling on foreign parliaments and international parliamentary institutions to strengthen cooperation to combat the occupation and restore Ukraine's territorial integrity. We thank you, representatives of foreign parliaments, for coming and supporting our state in the struggle. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-23-m0.u29	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, all who have spoken, let us move on to making a decision. I am voting for the adoption of the draft Decree (Registration No. 5775) on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the European Parliament, the governments and parliaments of foreign states on the strengthening of international cooperation within the framework of the Crimea Platform against the aggression of the Russian Federation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:50:10]] For 283 The decision is taken, the decision is taken as a whole. Congratulations, dear fellows. Since our daily routine is exhausted for the day, we generally begin with that. Today we went a little differently. We also have colleagues on whom today's birthday is Vladimir Anatoliyovich Voronov. [[Applause]] Congratulations, health, success! And Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Happy birthday! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I declare the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Heroic glory! All with the holiday again!
