ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u1	Good day again, dear fellows! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. So far, so good to see you! So far, so good to see you! In response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You are presented with a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by pressing the green button on the first left, the pro button, using the sensor button. Are you ready to register? Please invite a colleague, as it will be suggested to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, but if there are no 150 votes, it may be complete. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:01:30.]] There are 163 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the Hall and that is enough to start an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're definitely getting started. But while our colleagues are coming along, I would like to point out that the first issue of the day is the draft Law on Amendments to Article 188 prim. 32 Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Failure to meet the Legal Requirements of the Disciplinary Inspector of the High Council of Justice (Registration No. 5069). Read it if I missed one word. Under the reduced procedure, it is necessary. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 188. 32 Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Failure to meet the Legal Requirements of the Disciplinary Inspector of the High Council of Justice (Registration No. 5069). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:03:34]] For-173 Decision taken. Malijka Denis Leontijovich, Minister of Justice, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u2	Good afternoon, colleagues! The bill is closely related to the bill that was considered yesterday, 5068 concerning the reform of the High Council of Justice. The bill of yesterday's Presidential Bill proposes to set up the service of disciplinary inspectors, the body that is now in the Office of the High Council of Justice. This related bill amends the Code of Administrative Offences, which provides for responsibility for failure to comply with the requirements, for failure to file documents at the request of a disciplinary inspector. So this is a technical bill, which is accompanied by a bill that was voted yesterday, also initiated by the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you to support the bill. It provides for administrative responsibility for failure to comply with the requirements and provides for a protocol in the case of administrative misconduct to be made by the head of the IHR or its deputy, and the case itself will be dealt with by the court. A short and small bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u3	Thank you, Denise Leonteyovich, for such a fine report on this bill. I would like to invite the Deputy Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u4	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill, initiated by the President of Ukraine, continues the reform of the Supreme Council of Justice, as well as the commitments made by Ukraine to strengthen the independence and effectiveness of the judiciary. Moreover, this bill is aimed at implementing the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as the Borrower and the European Union as the Creditor and will help us to obtain macro-financial assistance from the EU of up to EUR 1 billion 200 million. Draft Law 5069 along with Bill 5068 is extremely important. Because without a qualitative relaunch of the High Council of Justice, it is virtually impossible to implement an independent and transparent human resources policy in the judiciary and to restore our citizens' trust in the courts. So if Bill 5068 creates the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the High Council of Justice, Bill 5069 creates administrative responsibility for failing to comply with the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice. It's about not providing information or documents, or providing early misinformation on such a request, or violating legal deadlines. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee unanimously agreed that the establishment of administrative responsibility for the improper fulfilment of the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspector was urgent and timely. Moreover, all the institutions to which the text of the bill has been sent support it, although the GNEU also makes proposals for the simultaneous entry into force of Bill 5069 and Bill 5068. In view of the fact that the Venice Commission generally accepted Bill 5068 and was accepted on the basis of us yesterday, the Committee on Law Protection decided to recommend to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes, yes. I see, Arthur Volodymyrovich, that you wish to discuss. That's why I'm asking you to sign up for factions: two for, two for, against, please. And then there are the factions or groups that want to participate in the discussion for 1 minute. Let's see who signed up first. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zabrodski Mikhail Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u6	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please pass the word to Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u7	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u8	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Thank you, Sir Michael. I'm hearing, frankly, the second day, yesterday during the 5068 discussion and today during the 5069 discussion, that we are starting a new service in Ukraine, a new disciplinary institution, respectively, of the Supreme Council of Justice inspectors. Dear colleagues, I'd like to disappoint you. Such an institution has existed for five years after the adoption of the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, as the patronage of each member of the High Council of Justice, provided for disciplinary inspectors who, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Law of the Law of the Civil Service, assist the relevant members of the High Council of Justice to exercise the powers provided for in the Queen of Disciplinary Directions, since each member of the Committee enters a particular disciplinary chamber and all documents before the session are prepared by the disciplinary inspectors themselves. It is in the Constitution that an institution such as a member of the UPR is expected to make decisions, and all the other organs are auxiliary. You want to isolate these inspectors into a separate service by depriving members of the High Council of Justice, in fact, of the constitutional powers for disciplinary conduct. They will continue to be deprived of the possibility of carrying out appropriate procedures before making a decision. And this kind of institution that you're saying begins with one goal: to destroy the participation of members of the IDP in any disciplinary conduct. So it's not about independence and institutional strengthening that we need to talk about, but we need to talk about someone who wants to destroy the concept of a member of an IDP at all. Here we now have a discussion about what there will be, what there will be competitions that will be future members it will no longer matter. All their powers are the most important in the disciplined conducts will be taken for the benefit of a centralized vertical, so I understand the subordinate service, which will incomprehensiblely end up in whose hands. In view of these circumstances, we firmly deny such an approach and will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u9	Thank you, Ruslan. Thank you, Ruslan. Feel me? The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u10	We are considering a logical extension of yesterday's bill, which we adopted in the first reading on the establishment of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the High Council of Justice. Yesterday we discussed what this service is, what its functions are, why it is needed. And we all understand that the service of disciplinary inspectors is needed to ensure the most effective and swift execution by the Higher Council of Justice of its constitutional functions in order to ensure that the members of the High Council of Justice are not overburdened by the vast array of technical documentation, by technical correspondence with the various authorities of the State who have to give their answers in order to have a reasoned, balanced and substantive legal decision. However, the introduction of a disciplinary inspector’s service without a corresponding obligation, which must be strengthened by the administrative responsibility of those subject to whom they request appropriate questions, will not be adequate. And that is why Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky initiated before the Supreme Council of Ukraine and defined as an immediate bill establishing administrative responsibility for failing to meet the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice. I therefore call on all Ukrainian national deputies to ensure the full functioning of this new institution in its composition or subsidiary, more loyally, to the Supreme Council of Justice to support this bill and to introduce the administrative responsibility of the entities to which disciplinary inspectors refer. The faction of the political party "The Servant of the Nation" will vote in favour and call upon all others to join in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u11	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u12	Oleg Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u13	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u14	Please, Makarov, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u15	Who says we passed Law 5068 yesterday? I want to remind you that we accepted it in the first reading, and most of the standards there are controversial, as the rapporteur spoke about, the committee head, the honourable one, as the reporter spoke about, is Mr. Venislavski. And we're going to change it, we're going to make corrections, and we're going to insist that the institution of disciplinary inspectors is premature and undervalued, as stated in Law 5068. Therefore, we believe that amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences in part of the responsibility for failing to meet the requirements of disciplinary inspectors is also an premature norm. Now we have this rule of law saying that those who do not meet the legal requirements of the High Council of Justice — the Constitutional Authority, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice — are called to account. Where does the disciplinary inspector come from? He's an assistant who's working with a member of the High Council of Justice right now. Let us then introduce the responsibility for failing to meet the legal requirements of a fellow national deputy, a fellow member of the local council, and so forth. It's a perfectly premature norm. Let's finish reforming the High Council of Justice first, let's introduce a competitive selection of the High Council of Justice. Then we'll watch it work and we won't rush. And I have a question. And where do 63 disciplinary inspectors come from, from the Moon? Whether we will test them for virtue or not, we will give them undue powers prematurely, including in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u16	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u17	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree in part with previous statements that the Institute of Disciplinary Inspectors already exists, that there is an auxiliary apparatus of the High Council of Justice, and that requests are made on behalf of a member of the High Council of Justice. Because of this, entering a particular unit or structure or institution, if anyone tries to call it, is premature. Next. If we're talking about yesterday's bill, really, it hasn't been approved and it hasn't become valid yet, and today's is an auxiliary and satellite bill. I have the impression that someone, by separating the disciplinary inspectors into a separate institution, wants to invalidate the rights and powers of a member of the High Council of Justice to prepare this inspector, has made his own decision, and a member of the High Council of Justice seems to have borne some responsibility. The whole institution's impact is reversed, and we're not voting for such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u18	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u19	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, the question is, in fact, the possibility of carrying out the functions and competences of the High Council of Justice. But I want to tell you that there is an article 28, let the authors who are in such a hurry read, it's all written down and indicated who this inspector is. Inspector, there is a protective service, a protective service for a member of the High Council of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the High Council of Justice is, in fact, a permanent higher-ranking body of the judiciary. We are now attacking the authority, the competence and the ability to perform our functions. You realize that the inspectors will be involved in a criminal, civil, and other audit without a board member.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u20	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u21	Dear Ukrainians, the main cause of this bill is the law voted by the majority on September 20th, September 16th, I apologize, last year, where we took a loan to the European Union for 1 billion 200 million, and there this standard was prescribed. And someone didn't take care of it, you know, the turbine, you need a green button, a green button, a green button. Think about it. Your colleagues have already said that we will have to carry out the assignment of an assistant member of the R & D. I've heard that there are no more national deputies in the President's Office, according to the previous record. But soon we, I don't know who will no longer send and do the right thing, because we have to read the bills before we vote. This is a premature norm and let us not demean ourselves. I propose to abstain from this bill and continue to consider the matter in substance. Think when you vote, for then you have to do it to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u22	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 188, paragraph 32, of the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Failure to meet the Legal Requirements of the Disciplinary Inspector of the High Council of Justice (Registration No. 5069). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:19:50]] For 246 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next question. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Settlement of Budget Relations in the Implementation of Contracts made under the State-Private Partnership, including concession contracts (registration No. 5090, 5090-1). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[16:20:36]] For 249 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:20:55]] For 245 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture, Novikov Irina Yuriyov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u23	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill was designed to stimulate private investment in public-private partnerships. Because in accordance with the Act on State-Private Partnership, contracts can be made from 5 to 50 years today, and there is a one-year budget period and three-year budget planning in Ukraine. It is this bill that proposes the introduction of long-term budgetary commitments that can be made under the DFS and continue throughout the duration of the contract. At the same time, it should be noted that the investment period lasts from two to three years, sometimes up to five years, so these guarantees are critical to a private investor to pay certain charges for operational readiness for socially important objects. In addition, the draft Law lays down the limits of long - term budgetary commitments that can be made both within the national and local budgets. Separate limits are set for the State Road Fund, for these payments that will be made for the construction and operation of roads. As well as individual limits that will be used by local authorities to implement individual projects at the local level, particularly in the social sphere. The bill also proposes to regulate the payment of concession payments, including concession payments for the operation and construction of roads, to be directed directly to the State Road Fund. Because today all concession payments, according to legislation, are directed to the general fund. The bill will serve as an additional guarantee for private investors and will enable them to carry out such socially important projects in the field of health, education, and culture. Such a mechanism has already been implemented in such countries and works, such as Germany, Poland, Hungary, and Singapore, even in such developed countries. So I ask you to support us so that we can compete internationally for investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u24	Thank you. I understand you mean Hungary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u25	Hungary, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u26	That's good. National Deputy of Ukraine Pusharenko Arseny Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u27	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yes, today, when we were discussing the question of the selection of Mr. Kubrakov's Minister of Infrastructure, we were just discussing in the hall that the state of our infrastructure and the road fund, and we were talking about the bridges that are falling, we were talking about the social infrastructure that it's in a very inappropriate state, and frankly, it's still in critical condition. So, actually, we're our bill, and what Mrs. Deputy Minister said today, we're settling these things so that today we can let work and engage really not every year all of these things, we could implement these projects over 3-5 years. What's more, we're really talking about European practice, and today we're really bringing our legislation to those mechanisms and to those practices that are now in other countries. So I'm asking you to support us so that we can implement projects in public partnerships and we don't have the problems we face today and what Mr. Deputy Minister said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u28	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u29	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues considered Bills 5090 and 5090-1 and presented to the Supreme Council the conclusions of a committee that provided detailed information on them. In particular, not to mention that bills do not have financial and economic justifications and calculations and socio-economic impact assessments, and assessments of bills for the economy and the budget in the long run. The individual provisions of the bill are contradictory or do not agree with each other or with budgetary and professional legislation, which requires further substantive elaboration. Bills do not modify a number of other rules of the Budget Code necessary for the comprehensive regulation of the matter. The main scientific and expert office makes separate comments on the drafts. Minfin notes, too, that bills need to be finalized to take into account the comments and suggestions made. Mine-economy points out and does not support Bill 5090-1, as defined issues go beyond budgetary regulation and in the implementation of State-private partnership. The mini-infrastructure also does not support an alternative bill, noting that its adoption endangers the ability to successfully implement concession projects in the field of road construction. According to the committee, there was no support for an alternative bill of 5090-1. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council include Bills 5090 and 5090-1 in the agenda of the daily session and, as a result of their consideration in the first reading, adopt the Government Bill 5090 and assign it to work on the proposals made by the legislators and the proposals made by the Committee in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. He also asks the Head of the Supreme Council to announce the need for proposals for clarifications, the elimination of errors and contradictions in Bill 5090, which was not considered in the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u30	Thank you. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Needed to Be Discussed? Well, I can see that. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! Our economic history in Ukraine has proved that the state is not an effective business manager and a variety of projects. There are two ways to fix this, even three. The first is, of course, privatization, which, unfortunately, is not moving as fast as you would like. The second is to increase the efficiency of state-owned enterprises through corporate governance. And the third is a public-private partnership where the state uses the advantages of private investors, private managers, to increase the efficiency of governance in the main infrastructure. So, as a state, we should look for different ways to increase and improve the work of the public-private partnership to attract additional investments, to improve conditions for private partners. This is exactly what this project is about. This project allows long-term. make long - term commitments to the State on such projects. What does that mean? When a private partner goes into a public-private partnership, they basically make 2, 3, 5-year commitments. And the nation, unfortunately, can't. Because we have a one - year budget process, and the law does not allow us to make long - term commitments. Would a private partner then be interested in cooperating with the State if he made a long - term commitment and was unwilling to make a long - term commitment? Of course not. This bill solves this problem. So I encourage all my colleagues to support it and continue to work on improving the conditions for private participants in a variety of public-private partnerships projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u32	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Gorvat Robert Ivanovich. Lucenak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u33	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the Ukrainian people. Infrastructure and, in particular, the state of the road at present is one of the biggest economic problems in Ukraine. It is because of the catastrophic state of road infrastructure that the state loses its multibillion dollars each year. Accordingly, any legislative initiative aimed at resolving infrastructure issues can only be hailed. Including the development of a state-private partnership and a phenomenon such as concession. The Act amends the Budget Code on the arrangements for the financing of expenditure for the benefit of the private partner and the concessionaire. They introduce a series of new concepts into the legislation. It is granted the right of budget managers to make long - term commitments and to set the amount of expenditure to meet such long - term obligations. A number of public-private partnership procedures are being complemented and defined. There are limits to the total annual amount of long - term obligations for the payment of a private partner and concessionaire. It is complemented by the use of road fund funds, including a concession contract for the construction and further operation of the road. Of course, there are many shortcomings in the law. The Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading and we will work together on the second reading. Sadly, such a law does not allow it to develop fully today. But this innovation will enable the development of our infrastructure in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u34	Mikola Volodymyrovich, thank you. A potter's boy? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. Is there anyone else that's going to perform? Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u35	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. As always, we take a very good name. Look at how it sounds: the draft law on the implementation of state-private partnership treaties, it's all right and it's like that. But, my friends, it can't be torn completely from the context of a thing. When you and I adopt investor rights laws here, and then the state dumps them, it doesn't fulfil the obligations that we made here with you, voting in the Supreme Council. Such examples are, unfortunately, many: this is also alternative energy and much more. When you and I are adopting this so-called land reform, and it's not really a land market, it's a market where we don't give our farmer the opportunity to really buy land, because we didn't have anything to do with it. And that's what's happening to us today. And when today instead of creating a powerful middle class in the country, we don't do that without helping our farmers to actually work. If we were in Poland, we'd have a million and a half farms, not just like in Ukraine, barely 40,000. In order for people to actually work on the earth and produce a great product, we are doing nothing to do this. Look, please, at the way we have business relations. When we do not take any steps to meet the legitimate business. On the contrary, we're running the whole legal business as far as possible. And those who work in the shadows, they're still crucibles, and they're fine. When we accept so-called sanctions on smugglers, but actually smuggling continues. And she's not gone anywhere unless someone knows. So what's our state-private partnership? So let's not fool people, but let's really help the business, not just the names of the laws that write them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u36	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the budget code of Ukraine for the settlement of budgetary relations in the implementation of agreements concluded in the framework of the State-Private Partnership, including concession contracts (registration No. 5090). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:34:45.]] For 275 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the extension of the powers of private contractors (registration number 4330). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[16:35:22]] For 268. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:35:43]] For 261 Decision taken. Malijka Denis Leontijovich, Minister of Justice, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u37	Hello again, fellows! We are continuing reform in the area of executive leadership. Now you're thinking about a small bill -- the first step in developing a private contractor's profession. This is far from complete reform, because a large bill is complex, which addresses all enforcement problems, including the role and functions of private performers, currently being considered in a working group in a training committee – the Legal Policy Committee – will also be made available for consultation within the next week or two. The first step of the agreement on macrofinancial assistance with the European Union and the recommendations of the European Union provides for the granting of the right to private executives to withdraw up to 100,000 dollars from ownership entities irrespective of the form of ownership. In fact, this means that they will be able to raise funds, enforce court decisions, and other executive documents from state enterprises. This will make it more comfortable for the puller, faster, more transparent and, more importantly, more developmental, further development of the private performer's profession. The bill also proposes that private executives be given the opportunity to impose administrative fines. This is a basic bill, to which there are two other bills that will be considered in the same way today, to amend the Customs Code and the Code on Administrative Offences, so that reform is really complex. The bill is expected to take effect from the 24th year or if the number of private contractors reaches 1,000 people. Before the second reading, we will also discuss both the date and the order of validity of this law, and we will discuss it at a committee meeting. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u38	The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the decisions of the courts must be carried out. And we, as national deputies, have to do everything we can to ensure and improve the implementation of Ukrainian courts' decisions. That is why a few years ago, reform and the introduction of a private executive institution should continue with the help of our international partners. This bill is aimed at further action, i.e. the bill allows private executives to make decisions against government authorities, local governments, state enterprises with up to 100,000 coins. But this is just the first step. The committee has a working group that is trying to position the Ministry of Justice and private executives in order to adopt a large-scale law on further reform of private executives and their empowerment in further ways to enable people to choose between the public and private executives to implement the relevant court decision. We are on the committee when we consider this bill, and we understand that it should be supported in the first reading. But he was also a critic, because even if he was processed by the committee before the second reading, we would certainly change the deadlines for the introduction of the law as defined by the Ministry of Justice as 2024, we would do those terms or 2022. I think it's going to be a committee-backed decision. And of course, let's clear the rule that this bill goes into effect if there's a thousand private contractors. So far, there's only over two hundred of them. Therefore, the Committee concludes by recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include Bill 4330 in the order of the day - to - day fifth session and, as a result of the first reading, to accept it as a basis. Let's vote yes today and continue the reform of private contractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u40	Please write down: two for, two for, two for, factions and groups. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u41	Makarov Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u42	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, who don't know what this bill is about, let me give you a brief explanation. This bill states that the drafter of the bill – the Ministry of Justice – does not plan to extend the mandate of private contractors or to work in a comprehensive manner to improve the scope of the enforcement of decisions. The bill seems to be being submitted for implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Union. Let me remind you, paragraph 5a of the memorandum first of all requires extending the authorization of private contractors, creating a road map to fully align their powers with those of state contractors. What do we have in the bill? Private executives are allowed to execute court decisions against state authorities and enterprises with a government share of 100,000 dollars. And it is allowed for the interests of state enterprises and authorities to impose administrative fines. This is a very large increase in authority. And maybe the IMF. Sorry, the European Union will see Minjust work. And these changes, according to a version of the Ministry of Justice, have been due since the 24th year. What does this talk about? About the fact that the Ministry of Justice in this part is not working. And the committee head's promise that a comprehensive bill will be submitted in the near future tells us that the committee is working and the people's deputies are working and the Ministry of Justice is working on it when will it work? You don't believe private contractors, they think that by introducing this bill you're sabotaging the adoption of a big bill. We're going to vote in favour, we're going to apply for immediate entry into force of this bill, and we're going to increase the powers of private contractors. Give me the great law!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u44	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP notes that the bill is indeed one of the system-wide bills to regulate the activities, the system of private executives, and thus ensure the implementation of court decisions, so this is a very important issue. I could agree with the previous speaker that he is only partially solving the issue. But I would also like to remind you that the commitment to extend the powers of private contractors is in line with the commitments undertaken by Ukraine as a State under the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as a Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor and a Credit Agreement between Ukraine as a Borrower and the National Bank of Ukraine as an Agent of the Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor. This is about receiving Ukraine’s macro-financial assistance to the European Union in the amount of up to EUR 1 billion 200 million. So once again, the question is very important. And I would like to remind you that among the main initiatives should be to abolish and reduce existing restrictions on the execution of implementing documents by private contractors. And, of course, we're pointing out that there are certain risks or negative consequences, but we're all going to settle for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u46	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u47	Mr. Golovo, I give the word to Prince Ruslan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u48	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u49	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, frankly, I have a strong belief that this law will never really be passed. Its main purpose is to look at the first reading, to report to our Western partners that we have met the requirements, and we can give the macrofine in this part. Because this bill in this sense is a great deception. Never before 2024 will there be a thousand private performers in Ukraine. That's impossible. For four years, this institution has been operating, and now we have miraculously crossed 200 private performers. Another problem that really needed to be addressed was complex. Why did it happen that this institution, which seemed to have such a wow effect, boom, and there would be better footage, including from the state's private executive service, from the Ministry of Justice, from other legal professions, and then the units went? There are a lot of complaints about this. Some say that access to this profession is actually blocked, because there are a number of clans that control access to this profession and very quickly respond to any attempt by someone to have such open access. Or can you think of ways to simplify such access, allowing people without unnecessary barriers to access and exercise such powers as are not extraordinary powers from the point of view of those with at least basic legal education? No, we're talking about putting the basic bill in a long box. Now let's put in a little bit of this that we have fulfilled our obligations here, and we will never go back to that or the basics. This is the biggest problem in this bill. That's why we don't normally vote for him. And we think it's fair to tell our Western partners that every day they try to deceive them in order to get that kind of temporary benefit. I think they're going to be very aware of this and respond quickly and qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u50	Tarasenko Taras Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u51	My colleagues, I would like to point out that, for six months now, as Bill 3726, the new editorial on executive conduct, is on the committee's agenda. I really thank the Committee on Legal Policy, which is doing a great deal of work on this bill, and it will be submitted shortly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, if the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine had not blocked the work and actually helped with the proper work of the bill, it would have already been in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I have a single request to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to avoid any conflict between the State Executive Service and private contractors. In fact, we have only 200 private performers. In recent years, the private performer’s profession has not been supported in any way, i.e. the reform has been halted. We don't have any new private artists. So we will definitely work on a whole new bill that will meet all the conditions of the macro-financial assistance agreement. And the bill I'm asking you to support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u52	Alona Ivanovna's splinter with motives, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u53	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, an important bill, but we have a few observations and warnings that are very serious, especially in terms of adoption and implementation of the Collectors Bill, which we talked about a lot in this room. In fact, proposals for expanding the rights of private executives may be or judicial decisions must be implemented and this is certainly our great problem in the country. But it seems to me that at the same time as they expand their powers, there should be an extension of serious responsibility, and a call for responsibility, if necessary. To date, the attraction to responsibility for inactivity or for the wrong activity of a private performer is not very effective. You can either refer to a court or file a complaint to a disciplinary commission. How effective is that? I'm told by law colleagues that it's completely ineffective. That's the last of it. The rule that amendments to the Act on Enforcement should only be made by amendments to this law is also questionable. I'm under the impression that I'm talking a little bit about government service. So the public service just needs to be changed in the State Service Act, and here this rule, we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u54	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the extension of the powers of private contractors (registration number 4340). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:50:19]] For 268. Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Extension of Private Executives (registration number 4331). Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? It looks like it. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Extension of Private Executives (Registration No. 4331). Please support and vote. [[16:51:15]] For 272 Decision taken. Next question is the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to extend the powers of private contractors to enforce orders to impose a fine for breach of customs rules. Can we do that? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to extend the powers of private contractors to enforce the order imposing a fine for breach of customs rules (4532). Please support and vote. [[16:52:06]] For 273 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues of connection to the gas transport or gas distribution system (registrations 4578, 4578-1). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[16:52:50]] For 299 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:53:09]] For 257 Decision taken. Minister of Energy Galuchenko Herman Valeriyovich is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u55	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Certain Issues of Joining the Gas Transport or Gas Distribution System (Registration No. 4578) is being introduced. In the gas market, there is now a huge problem with connection to gas networks, and for most customers, this process is too complex, accompanied by abuse and huge problems. That is why the main purpose of this bill is to raise the legislative level of these issues. Of course, they are decided in a gas distribution code, but raising them to the level of law will make all these procedures much easier. To this end, or to simplify networking, it is proposed that the legislation should establish such a method of integration as a standard connection that allows applicants to obtain access within a specified time limit, especially when it comes to the integration of consumers. In addition, to control the process, it is suggested that online tools be run by private consumer offices that allow online subscribers to track down the whole process of connection. The proposed requirement to create an information database to be maintained by a GTS operator is also proposed. There is, accordingly, an alternative MP project, which is closer to government standards, but I ask for the support of a government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u56	Thank you. The word is given to the author of the alternative bill to the Ukrainian national deputy Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u57	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your opinion is proposed as an alternative to the Government's draft Act amending certain legislative acts on specific issues of connection to the gas transport or gas distribution system. We developed it in an expert environment involving interested parties, natural gas market participants, without even knowing that the government is preparing its own bill. At the same time, this fact of parallel work, I believe, has allowed me to offer a more effective approach to the object integration mechanism and to facilitate the integration of the customer’s objects into the gas transport or gas distribution system. Our bill takes into account most of the progressive provisions of the government bill, but there are some principles of difference, for example, which we propose to cancel the mandatory division of joining the gas transport system into a standard and not standard. And also simplify the issue of connection and access to the network, and settle the issue of refusal in that connection, narrow it down, literally, to one or two grounds for which you can refuse to join. We suggest that we look at individual issues of permissive nature, remove barriers in the form of artificial time delay and conceivable drives to deny operators access, and connect to networks. Also, it is clear that customers of construction sites or owners of existing objects are entitled to join the gas distribution or gas transport system. A new approach is proposed to determining how much you want to join, based on the size and distance of the power supply. As will be pointed out, the bill was supported yesterday by the Committee on Energy and Housing Services. I urge you to support this bill and join in its preparation for the second reading. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u58	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. The word is given for a report to the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Andry Mikhailovich Herus. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u59	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The question of connections to electricity networks to gas networks, to water supply networks is one of the most painful and one of the most acute in Ukraine, especially for business. Especially for the business that's being built and starting to work for new businesses, for new factories, for new factories. This bill is therefore designed to facilitate the connection of the gas distribution network itself and to the network of the Operator of the gas transport system. The two bills are actually quite close in substance, the government bill and the bill of Župan Andrija Viktorovich. Yesterday on the committee, we supported Bill 4578-1 as an alternative, and we ask him to be supported in the hall. I would also like to point out that there is another very important bill on simplifying and facilitating connections, which is 5,09 for connections to electricity networks. I hope that the Supreme Council will consider this bill in the near future. Thank you. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u60	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Yes, yes. He's asking for a faction of European Solidarity, so I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Anyone who doesn't want to do it, don't write it down. Please. The word is given to Gerus Andrija Mikhailovich, faction of "The Servant of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u61	Please support this vital and necessary bill, save time for discussion and move on to decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u62	Brilliant, Andrey Mikhailovich. Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the Political Party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u63	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Now we have two bills, really yesterday on the committee we've been looking very carefully at them both, and the authors of the government bill, and the authors of the alternative bill agree that the bills are very much similar and, in principle, everyone agrees that we need to move forward with adopting one of these bills in order to complement it with a second reading. What would I like to stress in the context of the drafting of the bill for second reading? The bill proposes to create a so-called information database on natural gas consumption. The goal is to control the use of natural gas and imported gas and its own production. This sounds good, but at the same time, this problem will not solve key problems in the natural gas market, such as natural gas market abuse by gas and gas spills, consumer rights violations of free consumption information, complex gas supplier change and discrimination in market access to consumer data. Because what's important right now? It's not just controlling the use of resources, but offering the citizens of Ukraine a single service that would allow them to quickly and simply change gas suppliers, to secure data on their consumption and, if necessary, to give them to a new supplier, because there are a lot of problems with this today when people are trying to change the gas supplier. And in that case, we'll be able to talk about consumption calculation, which will be fair and transparent. Such a single datehab could actually make life easier for consumers in Ukraine today. Well, and I'll make it clear that we have another bill that was being considered on the committee yesterday that was called upon to make sure that individual oligarchic groups, such as the Firtash group, finally start paying for the money that remains in debt to the Ukrainian gas transport system. Please include this bill in the next order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u64	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u65	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u66	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u67	Dear colleagues! Our "European Solidarity" faction will also support this bill, but it is very important to work on it for the second reading. But today I would like to point out that there is a very critical situation around the North Stream 2 project. And since 2014, our team has done everything to stop the North Stream-2, and has taken advantage of any potential for its underdevelopment. That's where the sanctions come from. Because it was a very coherent, constant command work by President Prashenko, diplomats, experts, Naftogazu, civil society, so it wouldn't be built up. For the country, if the North Stream is added, the effects are devastating. It's safe and economic. And Zelensky not only lost his diplomatic achievements, but he accused France and Germany of not supporting them enough. In requiring the support of allies, it is not necessary to destroy everything that was so difficult to implement in 2014, including corporate governance reform. Unlike Zelensky’s failures in foreign policy, the Supreme Council responds quickly to challenges. And today our committee has supported the Order of Appeal to the House of Representatives and to the Senate of Congress of the United States regarding the general imposition of sanctions so that the United States does not refuse its consistent policy. And I thank all the fellow MPs who signed, who supported, who joined, and tomorrow I also ask the Chamber to vote for it. Thank you all. And we're going to continue the fight. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u68	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u69	Please convey the word of the threat to Nekludov's life, Mrs. Ani Krakhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u70	Anna's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u71	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "For the Future Party" MPs will support an alternative bill, because it really is necessary. And we all know what kind of machination is going on now if you want to join the gas distribution system. And this law is really called for to simplify the process of joining the gas transport and gas distribution systems. That's why we support this initiative. There are a number of comments that need to be corrected for the second reading, and we will make corrections. And I hope that today we can fix the situation in the market. We also want to mention a bill that also improves and simplifies electrical connections. Which is equally necessary in the near future. Thank you. I support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u73	All those who want to speak, let's move on. Puppy? Pussy with a motive. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u74	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear friends and respectable Ukrainians, what is the connection to gas networks with such price policies? It will soon be about disconnecting from the gas networks that today are trying to make the population. From this day forward, the government has reversed the regulation of gas prices for heating power. Now all of Ukraine is going to be without hot water, and now the hot water tariffs that you've calculated today are going to be 300 to 350 dollars per cube. Now the heat tariffs are going to be cosmic because they're going to increase by 2 times. But you have to figure out that there is no gas market and that this bill is purely for one purpose lobbying -- who is going to rob Ukrainians more: the gas transport system operator or the gas distribution network operators. We don't have a market. And until you know it, you will drive the Ukrainians into a huge debt pit. That's why we can't support this incomprehensible bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u75	Shahov, National Deputy, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u76	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, please tell me when a bill will appear in the hall at all, so that the monopoly of gas monsters will be passed into the hands of the state and will remove this burden of people in our country today? Why are people paying in general for the gas system they were building today? Why is it that the skin of an ordinary person is skinned 10 times today? Eighty-four billion dollars today is the debt of the HKG. Who will repay this debt when restructuring takes place? When someone is deprived of the money, what will they say to their family and loved ones? Make yourself at home, please. Once again, I give you a welcome from Lugansk and Donetskina, where electricity costs four times as much as it costs in Kiev. As well as transporting gas through the pipes that were built by humans. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u77	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues of connection to the gas transport or gas distribution system (registration number 4578-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:08:02]] For 284 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Law on Amendments to Article 128. Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the acquisition by the Civil Prosecutor Status Guarantee Fund (Registration No. 4547). Ready? Please support and vote. [[17:08:48]] For 267 Decision taken. And the final question, registration number 4367. Even without discussion? Discussing? Two factions, including "The Servant of the People." Objection. You can't hear, I'll tell you again, your colleagues, including. Dear colleagues, the motion for consideration of Bill 4367, 4367-1 is put to the vote by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:09:40]] For 248 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, with the opportunity, I would like to begin by welcoming the employees of the banking sector with a professional holiday! May the money always be taken away and let it be a gift from life! We, as a society, as a state, have paid too high a price for the stability of the banking system that we have today, in 2015-2017 during the so-called "bankope". But three years in a row, you and I have a profitable banking system and only two banks last year are declared insolvent. We went through the first phase of stabilizing the banking system and did it for the benefit of the bank's customers, the people who keep their money in the banks' deposit accounts. Now we've moved on to the second stage. We must bring our legislation into line with the European Union's legislation, implement European norms to our legislation. This involves removing legal gaps to ensure risk management in banks, introducing capital buffers, and a new banking capital structure. We must implement Directive 2013/36 and Regulation 575 (EU). The bill also proposes to establish additional requirements for members of the board and the management of banks, to strengthen the responsibility of the board of banks, to improve the risk management system, and to empower the National Bank to demand changes in the composition of the board, to govern the bank if the current composition of such bodies does not guarantee bank stability. The changes are set to the stability of the banking system and to comply with EU legislation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u79	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The author of the alternative bill, Alexander Dubinski, is invited to the floor. Please. There is no drafter, then I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of Ivanchuk Andrija Vladimirovich to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u80	Good evening, Your Honor, presiding officer, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy on April 28, 21st, considered two bills: 4367 and 4367-1, an alternative. In order not to take too long, dear friends, I will brief you on the committee’s decision. We have made a unanimous decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis in the first reading and also to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy with the drafting of the bill in accordance with part one of article 116 to take into account all the recommendations that we have received in the first reading. So I'm asking you to support the first reading of Bill 4367. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, is that what I understand? Please sign up: two in, two in. National MP Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u82	Please vote without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u83	Thank you. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u84	The bill, just so you know, is just a comparative table of 197 pages. But of course, we support it on a basis. And we'll work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u85	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, today is actually Bank Employee's Day, and I think you're giving them or giving them a really bad gift, if you don't say it in other words. I am optimistic about the standards that are now being proposed. It's a very big bill. You probably have everyone in the e-mail of the NABU remark, a call from the professional community and individual banks about the critical issues that are in this draft law. It seems to me that you should know the basics at least if the risks you can now call publicize. It's the ability of the NBA to restrict or suspend individual banking transactions, to demand that the owner of a significant shareholding in a bank, to disqualify its shares, if there is reason to believe that the bank's actions may have a negative impact, to set the increase and value of economic standards for the bank, taking into account the size of the bank's risks, which are calculated by the NBA on the basis of its own professional judgement. This is what I call the standards that have a discretionary, regulatory influence. We will not talk about everyone: to intervene with the bank’s authorities without confirmation of the inefficiency of their activities; to unappeal the recognition of individuals or legal persons associated with the bank with transactions that may be limited to the imposition of fines on the next day; to check the bank’s free access to all the premises of the bank; and to demand that a copy of documents be made for wine outside the bank, risking the disclosure of the bank’s secret. I'd like everyone to get to know a huge text first with the threats they're going to add to the banking system. Notice what the banks are doing right now, and then we'll talk about whether these draft laws will add possibilities or reduce them even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u87	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u88	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, drafters of the 4367 bill, indicate that this law will ensure a stable and effective functioning of the entire banking system. I want to express the position of the "Paternity" team that we have the essential and the principles of reference to this bill. First of all, some of his positions are in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. For example, from now on the decisions of the National Bank of Ukraine under the bill will have a reverse effect in time, respected colleagues. Next thing. I want to draw the attention of everyone who is proposed under this bill that the state budget will be allocated to all former Nazbank workers for legal aid. Dear colleagues, why don't we move on? We will grant legal aid to all those who once worked in Naftogaz Ukraine and are being persecuted by law today. To those who worked the Crucifixions. By the way, some of the former leaders today are being persecuted by the law enforcement authorities in Poland. Dear colleagues, we believe that the committee should pay attention to these observations, and if approved in the first reading, to work on the second one so that the bill actually has a formal legal status. Otherwise, we bring the banking sphere into legal nihilism. Because of that, the "Paternity" faction is held in the vote in the first reading, and we're going to apply it to the second, so that it's a more balanced, comprehensive document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u89	Polack Anton Eduardowicz, then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u90	Dmitry Alexanderovich, Polackov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u91	Excuse me, Anton Eduardoovich Polakov. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u92	I want to emphasize again, we had a similar bill yesterday in this area with you. This is another violation, first of all, of the Constitution of Ukraine. Second of all, you're back in charge of Nazbank. You listen to what my colleagues said, because it's really what it is. And the fact that the introduction of a major project of a new type of NBA sanctions in relation to banks is a requirement for the owner of the bank to sell his shares. You know, it's when fiscals force businesses to sell to any entrepreneur in Ukraine, as well as banks. And that threatens all customers who have credit cards, credits, because one day you wake up in the morning and it turns out that you don't have credit in your bank anymore or your salary won't be paid because you're customers of all the banks, and Nazbank will have overtime and even through court you won't be able to cancel it. Please don't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m1.u93	All those who wish to speak? All of them. Then let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the organization of corporate governance in banks and other matters of the functioning of the banking system (registration No. 4367). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:20:56]] For 258. Decision taken. The next meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you all.
