ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Well, and at last good morning, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Before we start. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you all to Child Protection Day and World Parents' Day, with your permission. [[Applause]] We talk a lot, we do a lot, but everyone in their place, both in the plenary room, and outside of it, and at any other job, I'm sure they should remember who we're doing it for. We do this for the future of our nation. And part of this future today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the guest balcony. I propose to welcome them. These are our little colleagues, this is the Kyiv Children's Self-Government Organization. And I'm sure after a while, maybe a little, we'll swap places with them, they'll go down to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we'll sit on the balcony. Is there no objection? I welcome you again. I wish you all the best. And I want us to always remember why we do it. Once again, everyone with a holiday. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. As always, I remind you, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, the registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, the pro button, and using the sensory button. Are you ready to register?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u2	Yeah, it's green. Please register. [[10:06:04]] There are 202 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich. [[Applause]] I wish you success, I wish you victory, achievement, well, health first. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to give an address to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich. Boyko? Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u3	Mr. Speaker, honourable members of the people, when I consider the situation in the country, I want to return to the President's press conference after two years of his tenure. The whole point of the conference, in my opinion, is to live hard, but it's the enemy's fault that is external and internal. But if you look at what happened to the country over the last two years, you can see that it's a complete set of unfulfilled promises from the active power of the "ministers of the people." We don't have peace on Donbass, we're in a tough spot. We have no fair tariffs, we have a yoke against people, we have a shameful medical reform, we have a rising poverty. And this list can be continued. But what does the authorities do? Instead of making specific promises, we have a solid spectacle without bread and persecution of opposition, so that people do not know the truth because opposition speaks of the real state of things in the state. I think this whole speech has already been understood by people and they've given them an evaluation. I want to draw attention to the critical situation with the most painful problem in the state, the end of the war in the East. We have a whole reintegration vice-premier, we're the mother of the Minsk Group, which, in fact, is no longer known as it is, because it has managed to corrupt relations with the leadership of Brother Belarus. We have a bunch of statements, but we don't have any prisoners, we don't have any steps forward in the divorce, and we don't have any CATs. "The Opposition Platform for Life" has a clear position on bringing order and holding peace. We believe that Parliament must take a decision and appeal to the leader of the Normandy Four for an urgent meeting to stop the escalation of military tensions and intensify the political process of bringing peace to the east of the country. This is the demand of our entire Ukrainian people, this is the demand of the people, and Parliament must meet this requirement and take this decisive step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u4	Thank you. The word is given to the people. Rudik Kira, please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Last week we were convinced that we were living next door to two terrorists, Putin and Lukashenko. We know everything about the first one. About Lukashenko, we now know that he does not turn around illegally to plant airplanes and capture journalists for execution. The Voice Party calls for the immediate release of Roman Protasewich and his girlfriend, Sofia Sappego. As the Ukrainian Parliament, we must express a clear and firm position on this issue. And it's a shame that today's decision is not in order. Our position should be timely and clear, backed up by all parliamentary factions. We have to protect Ukraine from the threat of dictatorship if we don't want to wake up once in Belarus 2.0, where the dictator destroys rights and freedoms. We need to develop the institutions of Ukrainian democracy and the justice of the state. Without judicial reform, the path to democracy and justice will be blocked. If this is known to all and is supported, why is there no question of judicial reform again this week? Who has the answer to that question? Judicial reform is a key task that will ensure the real functioning of a democratic society, where all are equal before the law, where decisions are adopted fairly. Trying to sell businesses, citizens, international partners to simulate this reform is an irresponsible waste of the time that we have as parliamentarians. This is an irresponsible loss of opportunity for our country. First of all, they're economic opportunities. In the past year, Ukraine lost $870 million in foreign direct investment. And it wasn't because of COVID. This happened because there is no rule of law in Ukraine. Because all of us are simply afraid of investing in money because of the risks of losing it in an unfair way. As a parliament, we should change that. We came here to make a specific change. The Voice Party has a plan for judicial reform: to restart the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. We are for the renewal of the judicial system, which is possible only through the selection of honest and professional people. The Supreme Council has to make systemic decisions. So we insist that we finally raise the issue of judicial reform in the hall and we can support it. Only in this way will the country stop fighting for survival and move on to development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u6	The word is given to the National Deputy Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the MP's "Trust". Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u7	Dear Ukrainian youth, dear Ukrainian people, parliamentarians! Today, Ukraine celebrates the International Day of Child Protection. Children, young people are the future of our country. And Ukraine's development depends directly on the development of our young, our children. And it is up to you, dear colleagues, to create safe, necessary, necessary conditions in this country for a stable, wonderful development of our young future generation of Ukrainians. Our country’s development also depends on the development of new societies. I remind all of you that we are Marjorie MPs, who are gathered into the trust MP group, always in the districts, always in close contact with the newly created communities. And they expect Parliament to take real steps towards their development. So today, the Supreme Council can take a step towards the development of local self-government, which is to increase the share of taxes from VAT to the newly created local communities, so that their budgets can be filled, and that's exactly what we can do to help the new communities develop. The solution can also help to solve another important problem that has arisen in the newly created communities, especially in the newly created communities where most of the communities have joined together — the problem of paying wages to our teachers. It has already been confronted by several areas: Vinnicka, Poltavska, Ivano-Frankivska, Ternopilska, Lvivska. People lack tens of millions of dollars to pay teachers in rural areas. This new budget for teachers' salary subsidies from the Ministry of Education is not decentralization, it's not some cluster of schools -- it's the destruction of education in the Ukrainian village. That's why we call on the Ministry of Education to recalculate the formula for the calculation of education subsidies for the following year, and this year we will find the appropriate funds to pay our teachers a salary so as not to close schools in the villages of Ukraine, because that's unacceptable. Today we have to look after our young people, we have to look after the educators who are raising our young people, and we have to look after the development of our communities, and it is directly up to the development of a stable and prosperous Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u8	Please, National Deputy Major Olena Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Please. Ryabusha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u9	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Well, once again, I'd like to welcome everyone with the International Children's Day. You know, one of the oldest international festivals today, the decision to hold it was made in 1925 at the World Conference on Child Welfare in Geneva. After World War II in 1949, the Women’s Congress in Paris declared the struggle for peace as a guarantee of the happiness of children. International Children’s Day was first celebrated in 1950. In nine years, the United Nations adopted the Declaration of Child Rights, and in 1989 the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Ukraine on September 27, 1991, came into existence immediately after the declaration of independence. Children’s Day. Of course, it is a reason to give children a holiday. Entertainment, smiles, sweets are usually the first day of summer where there's peace, where parents don't hear gunshots, where children don't grow up early from what they've seen and heard. Children's Day is a reminder to adults about their duty to be child-guards, twice as responsible for those who can influence the environment in which our children grow. Today, small Ukrainians suffer from war, pandemics, incurable diseases, and environmental disasters. We, as members of the Supreme Council, should, without undue populism, be determined to improve existing legislation. Ukraine has a national child protection legislation system and has ratified major international conventions aimed at protecting the rights and interests of children. But time is not in place, and the legislative framework needs changes that need to be worked together. Our children need protection, not because they are weak, but because their power is reflected in the brilliant sports victories, scientific achievements, and artistic achievements that the whole world marvels at. You cannot call the weak children who paint pictures with their feet or subdue mountains in carts and write books without sight. Our children need protection because they are strong and only we adults can make the power of our children beneficial to society. So today our committee is conducting an exhibition of the work of talented children, children with disabilities. And I suggest you join in, and become the owner of the unique jobs that you've created.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u10	It's fine. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, we really talk a lot in this session room, and at the same time the total poverty of Ukrainian citizens, the debt for utilities has reached 80 billion dollars, the debt on salary amounts to about 3.5 billion dollars. The government’s tariff policy continues to work against people. There's never been a tax on electricity, which we've talked about in this room hundreds of times, and we've taken appropriate references to the Cabinet of Ministers. That's what we have now. We can predict, friends, that in the fall we will face a sharp rise in gas prices, food, and fuel. Not to mention the words of our brilliant contemporary artist John Marchuk, most of whom, I'm sure, visited his exhibition in Kiev by the age of 85. That there are people in Ukraine and there is a state. It's like water and oil, they don't mix. People and the state. And in this context, we mention that today is the Day of Child Protection, our future. At the same time, we do not see in the order of the day this week bills to support young people, to guarantee young people vocational education, decent work, affordable housing. We also don't see any bills aimed at increasing the economy, strengthening the social protection of citizens. And the proposed bill on subsistence at least only makes the situation worse. Speaking of young people, I would like to remind you that in the last sociological survey 37 percent, 37 percent of young people, Ukrainians, barely survive, the cost is only for food and necessities. A good decision today, a draft decree to honor the memory of children who were killed by the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. But these are just symbolic words. Parliament only engages in symbolism. Right, but without any further steps to protect the children and stop young people from leaving the country. We are grateful to the Parliament, which adopted our child protection bill in the first reading, and we look forward to its adoption in the second reading. Because it is unacceptable for a State to offer social assistance to children with one hand and another to take away the benefits. We're also talking about the plenary week, and yesterday I talked about it on the Conciliation Council, against those bills that the experts of the Supreme Council and the lawyers have observations about because they don't fit the Constitution of Ukraine. We see the bill in order of the day. We don't see the deterioration, the deportations, the Vistula operations, but we actually see the deterioration of the status of the Ukrainian language as a national language. We insist that the question of the deported, Operation Vistula, be placed in the agenda, Bill 2038. In condemning Russia and Belarus’s totalitarian regimes, we need to find courage and willpower, reexamine the totalitarian regime that our fellow countrymen still remember, and ease the fate of the totalitarian machine of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u12	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, faction of European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u13	Dear Ukrainians, "European Solidarity" continues to determine the chronicles of Green Age absurdity. The year’s salary debt rose 1.5 times and reached a record 3.5 billion dollars. At that time, yesterday’s anti - corruption officials were sweetly set up in oversight councils to remain silent about corruption. Record increase in tariffs: twice the price for electricity, up to 9-14 thousand per thousand cubic metres for gas. But you won't be told by the 20 advisors of the President's Office, the President's Chief of Staff. They're uncompromisingly set up to fight the North. Not with North Stream Two, but PP Two with Dusty Two, that's what they call it, at a time when Ukraine will soon lose really very serious our weights in the fight against North Stream Two. You know, Ukraine took 200 million World Bank grants to reform our higher education. At this time, the new Ostap Bender in Zelensky's face said that 7 billion Ukrainian taxpayers' money would be spent on some new "New Truscavetz" at Presidential University. We have record unemployment today. As early as yesterday, profits have become profitable, and all of this takes place in the context of the fight against the oligarchs, while the wealth of the oligarchs is growing. And about coal, a very popular topic right now. In 2020, Ukraine purchased one billion dollars of coal from the Russian Federation. And these are stolen from the occupied Donbas anthrax. When will this be investigated? And all of this, my friends, is very similar to the situation in a neighboring country, where 27 years ago an unsystemic simple boy came to power from a village in the slogans of fighting oligarchs, in the slogans of fighting corruption, and with the promise of a one-time term just to break the system. He began his violent activities 27 years ago by imprisoning all the opposition and not putting them in prison. Doesn't that remind you of anyone? In fact, today we see Ukraine being transformed step by step into a totalitarian, undemocratic, authoritarian state. And you're all talking about it when you keep quiet about corruption when you sign up for COVID "great theft," when you sign up for COVID, when you're already fighting against Ukrainian, when, today, 50,000 Ukrainians die from COVID, your self-witness sends 400 oxygen appliances to India. Let him personally from his family, within the framework of charity, correct it, the declaration permits. And we demand not to build Belarus in Ukraine, to put in order the Supreme Council's day decree, our statement regarding the sentencing of the Lukashenko regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u14	The word is given to the National Deputy Sobolje Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u15	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, prominent representatives of the media, 22 May 11,000 citizens of Ukraine, representing all the areas, all of Ukraine's populated areas, gathered in the Kyiv region to form an initiative group of 11,000 people in the 3 million signatures. And it is today that the relevant documents will be submitted to the Central Election Commission. The question of a referendum brought by an initiative group representing agrarians, the Association of Farmers, individual agricultural enterprises, from all over Ukraine is one thing: do you support the ban on selling land to anyone other than the State of Ukraine. The question is quite simple and clear: Do citizens of Ukraine support the land of the agricultural assignment that our citizens want to sell, and only the state of Ukraine has the right to buy it for the purpose of continuing to rent it to those who process it? The 3 million signatures to be collected since the submission of the documents within 90 days (3 months) should be handed over to the Central Electoral Commission. The Fatherland Party has done its utmost to support the citizens' initiative at the start of the procedure, according to the new referendum law we have approved. I think it's going to be a test, including the Central Election Commission, how much citizens' rights will be upheld or ignored. I think it's going to be a real test of whether it's an active referendum law that, according to the President, gives citizens the right to determine their own destiny, whether it's a fictional law that actually allows them to avoid in any way a referendum that can be carried out by Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, as many as 60 men were authorized in the Dnipropetrov region to collect 3 million signatures. For us today, there will be a moment of truth: the Central Election Commission supports the popular Ukrainian referendum for the support of the people of Ukraine, whether it supports adventurers who try to break this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, while we're going to the hall, there are a few announcements. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and, according to the decision of the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People" on 24 May 2021, I report that the political party "Slut of the People" was expelled from the parliamentary faction "Slut of the People" of Ukraine by Shevchenko Evgenija Volodymirovic. Another announcement. In accordance with article 60 with the prime badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of an interfractional parliamentary association "For the Development of Social Entrepreneurship". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich, was elected head of this association.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the first issue of the agenda is the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 4690-15). From the procedure? It's going without discussion. You can get a minute out of the procedure. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka. Okay, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, in all the speeches except "The Servant of the People," has traditionally sounded a very important question for all Ukrainians: raising electricity tariffs, gas tariffs. And it was Zelensky and his team that actually eliminated the subsidy system. Today, Ukrainians are unable to obtain them. We demand that today's agenda be followed by a daily bill on increasing subsidies to make them available. And we are convinced that this will be the unifying absolute bill for the session hall, which is supported by all the regions. Therefore, we appeal to you, Mr. Head, to serve the Ukrainian people, not the oligarhat, and to put it in the order of the day. The other one. It's about Belarus. Obviously, the Ukrainian Parliament cannot be. Stand by when people are being tortured in a neighbouring state today when there is no democracy. And we have to condemn it. Please place this decision in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u20	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u21	Sobolje, Fatherland. It's already become a tradition when the "Fatherland" faction on the other hand announces that we have asked more than 80 questions concerning tariff policy, social policy, which unfortunately are not reflected in those changes to the order of the day. Yes, we are grateful that four questions are included. Sadly, though, the key questions remain in this order of things. And our faction also supports the issue of Belarus by including it in the agenda. This is a question including the prestige of our Parliament's work. You know. At a time when Parliaments of all European countries, the European Parliament, made clear warnings about the possibility of applying the death map to Belarus' political opponents, the arrest of a well-known journalist, the well-known owner of an independent channel. Such a question cannot be overlooked by Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u22	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u23	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, today in the draft ruling that we are considering, there are quite a lot of violent moments that, for example, the bill on the liquidation of the Kyiv District Administrative Court. You can imagine the attack we're taking on by the President's Office and the President himself, who intervenes in the Constitutional Court, intervenes. He may allow himself to initiate such things through his deputies about the liquidation of the court, because someone just didn't like it. The letter of the law comes in second place. That's the first one. This draft decision cannot be supported. The other one. It's Children's Day. If you want to help children, and where are the bills for amending Ukraine's national budget for raising the minimum child's subsistence allowance to 6 years old, the minimum subsistence allowance for children from 6 years old or older, where the budget for children's assistance is more than 40,000 dollars, which is now, and the monthly payment of over 800 dollars? These should be practical steps that should be in order today and include consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u24	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, this decree has a project by our colleague, Lesi Vasilko, which I would like to welcome today with the birthday of her child, she's the only one. Just on Children's Day. And of course, as we have our projects here, we will vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4690-15). Ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:38:06]] For 224 Procedural decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, please. Once again, at the suggestion of the Deputy Mamka, I put to the vote a draft regulation amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 4690-15). Are you ready to support the distinguished national MP? Please support and vote. [[10:38:58]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u28	Thank you, fellow believers, and I would especially like to thank my colleague for the support he expressed in this decree. Thank you for yourself and, you see, from the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Plastic Pack Restraints Act in Ukraine (Registration No. 2051-1). The vice president of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment, Igor Sergiyovich, is invited to the floor. Thank you. Let's go to the right. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Restricting the Circumstances of Plastic Packs in Ukraine (Registration No. 2051-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:40:42]] For 297 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the bill of honoring the memory of children who died as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine (registration number 5343). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:41:22]] For 241 Decision taken. My dear colleagues, before we move on to this issue, I propose that we honor the memory of those children who died during the war in our eastern part of the country. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. The national deputy of Ukraine, Mezenceva Maria Sergiyovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u29	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, Ukrainians! We know that children come into the world for a happy and healthy life, where there should definitely be no place for violence and war. Life is designed to open up to them the ways of victory and opportunity. But first of all, we realize that in Ukraine, because we have a war with the Russian Federation, children die. The International Day of Innocent Child Victims of Aggression dates back to 1982, an initiative by the United Nations. It is also called upon to prevent and protect the rights of children. As I pointed out, the situation in the east, unfortunately, killed more than 240 innocent children in Ukraine, injured more than 500, injured more than 50, missing, their parents don't know where they are now. The decree envisions the observance of this date on June 4 at the state level of victims, innocent victims of aggression, and the memory of children who died as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression. The existence of armed conflict really complicates the way Ukrainian children develop. Some have lost their homes, some have lost their relatives, but we must fight for their rights and take preventive measures to do so. For Ukraine, this day is another opportunity to draw the attention of Parliament, Ukrainian society, and those who kill Ukrainian children. I'm sure they'll be fined accordingly. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this determination. Thank you very much, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u30	The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Kravchuk Eugenia Mikhailnovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, at their meeting on April 14, 2021, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered the draft Decree 5343. This project is proposed at the national level to honor the memory of children who died as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine on June 4. The committee supports the idea of a draft decision and recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a whole, but in the next edition of the committee. Given the fact that at least 240 children have been killed in Donetsk, Lugansk and other areas since 2014 as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression and other actions by the aggressor country against Ukraine. Although Ukraine, like most nations in the world, is making every effort to ensure that children are not discriminated against, especially in situations of crisis and armed conflict. Taking into account the decision of the UN General Assembly, which established the International Day of Childless Victims of Aggression under UN auspices and decided to celebrate it every year on June 4, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To establish in Ukraine a Day of Remembrance for children who died as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine, which marked June 4 each year. Recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, local executives and local authorities to develop and approve plans to honor children at the national and local levels of memory who have died as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. Follow-up to this Order is to be placed on the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy. This decree takes effect from the day it was adopted. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u32	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm sure you're all comfortable sitting in these chairs right now in this light room. And you're going to argue and discuss important bills, and you think that you're doing huge good for this country, for all of its population. Sometimes it is, but these experiences, these discussions you're having in this room, are absolutely meager, absolutely nothing, compared to the experiences and thoughts of a young man, a child who hears the sound of bullets, who hears hails of hail bursts with his ears, bursts of shells. That's terrible. Perhaps none of you can imagine. And thousands of Ukrainian children in the east of our country in this terrible war with an aggressor feel it every day, every week, every month, every year, and many of them, unfortunately, have gone forever. Perhaps there is nothing more tragic than a child’s death, death by the cynical and cruel hand of an aggressor. So today I urge all of us to support this resolve together and honor the memory of the innocent children in the fight against the aggressor in eastern Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u34	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I will certainly support this decision, I expect each and every one of you to support it. I just want to remind you once again that every child's life is important to us, no matter where he lives, whether it's in Donbas, or in ORDLO. Every child is our child, our Ukrainian child, and it's a nightmare that children have been dying for seven years. I think we have to do everything we can to stop the war and bring the children home, bring the children back, bring the adults back to the country, one big modern country, a country that will be a country for each of them. I'll support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u36	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, MP for the Future. Irina Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u37	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The Future Group, of course, supports this decision, and we think we need to talk about honoring the memory of innocent children in this terrible war, the Third Millennium War. But at the same time, the Future Group thinks that it's important to raise questions about child protection and not just June 1st, but in general we need to talk about child protection -- those in the East. We insist that the decree, which certainly draws attention to the memory of these children, should actually contain the second part of what we should do for those children who now live there, learn and are in danger every day, as our colleague, every time and every second said. What should we do about it? First, care should be taken for the physical health of children, for the welfare of children, and for the moral health of children. And that's why we insist that on Friday at the "government hour" when the Minister of Social Policy reports, the next time we raise questions about protection, comprehensive protection, multifaceted, broad-based children who are now in the East. So honoring memory is part of the problem, but comprehensive protection is the second part, and it is our duty to these children. The Group "For the Future" is voting in favour of the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u39	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Of course, the number of children killed by war is much higher, and we don't even know the exact number of children who died first of all from mines from gunfire. Recall how a five - year - old boy died a month ago from a mine in occupied territory, and Russian propaganda under the abominable death was simply trying to set up another provocation on Ukrainian borders. The problem of child victims of a military conflict is much broader in general. And actually, we have to talk to you today about the obligation of a collective suit on behalf of the Ukrainian State against the Russian Federation, an aggressor country, where all the names and all the circumstances of the children killed by the Russian aggressor should be accurately identified. On that day it is also important to mention living children, the Kremlin’s political prisoners. And to explain to the families of political prisoners why, in two years, the majority have been blocking the Law on the Status of Prisoners and paying them back. We've adopted this bill in the previous parliament in the first reading, and it's now just blocked. I'm addressing the deputies here right now, and we need to adopt this law. The other one. Not just memory, but responsibility and punishment. In fact, let us mention Daniel Didik, who was killed in a peaceful Harkov, a 15 - year - old child during a peaceful rally. Did you know that Mr. Green Killer handed over to the Russian Federation without punishment, without a court sentence, without just taking them away so that even those who were arrested by the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities would not be punished for killing children? There can't be that. They are murderers, they have to be named, they have to be extradited from the Russian Federation and punished. Because only memory is not enough, there must be punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u41	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u42	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this draft decree, which refers to honouring the memory of innocently murdered children by the use of robbery and Russian bullets. And, of course, when we look east, at what's going on there, the draft decree says that more than 240 children died during Russian aggression. I think this figure is approximate, it can't be exact. But the main problem today is not just to honor those who are no longer there, but to think about those living who are, in fact, in Russian captivity. They ended up in a concentration camp, they don't have any future, because there's no work there, there's a completely destroyed industry, there's lawlessness, and that's what Russia did. And, of course, as a Ukrainian state, we must take care to create the most favourable conditions for those children who want to get out of there. So that they can learn in Ukraine’s controlled territory, so that they can benefit from studying in Ukraine’s higher educational institutions, in Ukrainian schools, and in order to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u43	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! "The Opposition Platform for Life," our deputies introduced a bill, a corresponding draft decree on measures aimed at honoring the memory of children who have died and enhancing the social protection of such children. Unfortunately, this motion for a ruling has not been considered by a profile committee, and today it is not in the order of the day. Yes, children suffer from war. But it is more important to see how the state helps them to survive. Because not only do children in Donbas suffer from war today. Children suffer from poverty, poverty, sickness, lack of protection from their loved ones, and the practice of recent years have shown that the authorities have failed to recognize this and provide real help to their children. That's why "The Opposition Platform - Life" thinks that's a similar approach, solely the setting of a date, cynical. We demand real help for every child who has suffered from war and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u45	Thank you. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u46	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Of course, we will support and we are one of the coauthors of the decision. But, you know, when I was preparing for that performance, she was coming to you with a coma in her throat. Because it's hard to imagine the feeling of a mother who's being sent to her son's body without her head, because it's like she's in forensics, and in five months, she's only getting a chance to bury him. And this is the real story in 2014 of Stephen Chubadenka, a football player, a Ukrainian, a Kramatorian. But it's even harder to listen to the cynical lie of the Harkow city authority that tells us that we need advice to name a school called Danil Didik. Dear colleagues from the Kharkiv City Council, power, c.o. Secretary-General. Heads of the city! Have a conscience, stop being cynical Russian scum, and finally name a school called Daniel Didik. Mr. President, Mr. Avakov, it's in your honor and on your conscience that this school will be in Kharkiv if Kharkiv can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u47	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the bill on honouring the memory of children who died as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine (registration No. 5343). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:58:55]] For 308. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. By factions, please show us: "Serviary of the People" – 208, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fathership" – 20, "Party for the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 16, "Trust" – 15, non-fractional – 9. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Who will act? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, in this House of Commons there is a good tradition: before the introduction of each new phase of the Language Act, some deputies register the draft law on its extension. This was the case with education last summer, with consumer relations in winter, so is now with Bill 5554. This Law 5554 proposes that the indefinite term, as it were, be suspended until the quarantine is completed, which is unknown when it is completed, a norm that says that the demonstration of all films and shows, whether in cinemas or on television, is to be carried out exclusively in the national language. This anti-Ukrainian norm is being introduced under the influence of those producers who are the largest producers of the aggressor country, the Russian Federation, and want to capture Ukrainian television and cinematographer without translation. This rule actually deprives a huge number of representatives of the Ukrainian film industry. Because of the involvement of studios and actors and hundreds of other creative workers before the production of a Ukrainian-language film translation and sound system, these people survive quarantine. This rule throws them out on the street. This rule was no surprise to anyone, because we have deferred the entry into force of this standard for 2 years in order for those who produce the product to prepare for it. By the way, the quarantine rate was used when public office competitions were cancelled, when government purchases were facilitated, when salaries were lifted. All of these standards were adopted well before the New Year last year and continue to work. Moreover, this rule, what they want to do now, Mr. Head, is in direct contravention of the Rules, 93 articles of the Rules gives 30 days to committees to decide whether a project should be included in the agenda. The 96th article makes it clear that the issue of the inclusion of a bill in the agenda of the day session is being considered by the Supreme Council after the conclusion of the Main Committee has been adopted. There was no committee meeting in direct violation of the Rules. The anti - Ukrainian forces, speculating before the aggressor, want to destroy the Ukrainian Language Law again. We can't do that! Because our language is not just a word, it's not just a humanitarian policy. This is our main protection against the aggressor. It's the protection of Kiev, Lviv, Kharkiv, Odessa. Let us not let the Law of Speech be destroyed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, two questions about the inclusion of them in the agenda of the session and the shortening of the deadlines. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bill registration number 5589.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u50	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act "On the State Budget of Ukraine on." No discussion on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on the provision of extended neonatal screening in Ukraine (Registration No. 5589). [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! You know, when you vote 17 times, don't tell me about the Rules! [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:05:16]] For 310 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut in half and prepare for the first reading and introduction of alternative bills, Bill No. 5589. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:05:50]] For-286 For 289. I'll bet on it. For 286. I'm sorry. Decision taken. I would like to place a motion for the inclusion of Bill 5554 in the agenda. Please support and vote. [[The voices from the hall. Shame! Shame! Shame!]] [[11:06:21]] For 204
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u51	The decision is not taken. 204. And, unlike you, I'm not betting on any other, third, fifteenth, twenty-third. Thank you. I didn't notice anyone. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on the appointment of the Supreme Council representatives to a commission to hold a competition for the appointment of the Director of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine for the submission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy (registration number 5461). It is suggested that we consider this question. Sorry, 62. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:07:23]] For 239. Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, you and I have voted on a bill that has already become the law signed by the President on the Bureau of Economic Security. This is one of the fundamental reforms required of us by the business that was required of us by the public, and you and I stopped the mess, we stopped the abuses that are being committed today by the tax police, the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service and the Ukrainian Economic Security Service units and we created the only body that would be responsible for Ukraine's economic security and, in fact, would not be a nightmare for business. In accordance with article 15 of the above - mentioned law, the committee carried out the work, and we identified two representatives of the committee at an open meeting to the committee for the appointment of the director of the BEB. What kind of representatives are they? Rubanenko Ludmila. It's a famous person in the field of auditing, 40 years of accounting and auditing. This is a person who goes into the top 25 most influential accountants in Ukraine. He's a real member of the European Confederation of Tax Consultants, a well-deserved lawyer. And it was filed by the Tax Consultants' Association. The second is Chevchenko Tetjana. It was filed by the National Association of Ukrainian Lawyers, and it has 20 years of legal training. When these two individuals were identified, we were guided by such logic, and the baby combines two functions or two kinds of knowledge. The first is knowledge in tax law and accounting. And that's what Mrs. Rubanenko has. The second is criminal proceedings and criminal law. And Mrs. Shevchenko Galina has this knowledge. In view of the foregoing, we have identified these individuals and we invite the Supreme Council to support our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support the candidatures supported by our committee, because they are indeed those chosen independently. We are now trying to form a commission so that it can really help select an independent, qualified head of the Bureau of Economic Security. We're the last people who haven't applied for this commission yet. I'm going to remind you what's formed by the introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council and the RNBO. And in order for this commission to work well and for the new head of the Bureau of Economic Security to be able to take office by the end of this year, preferably even in early autumn, we need to form a commission. And then we have the expectation that both our international partners and the entire Ukrainian society will support the elimination of the State Fiscal Service, and finally the creation of a new independent analytical body to investigate economic crimes. Thank you. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u55	The word is given to the National MP, Speedhod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u56	Anna Speedhod, 93rd District, Kyivshina. Dear colleagues, what choice can we even talk about if there were 22 candidates and they weren't even invited to a committee meeting? So what is the selection, the selection of certain "ministers of the people" on the committee or the faction or the office of the President? What choice are we talking about? It would seem, indeed, a fine initiative to have representatives of various political influences in the governing body. But please tell me, if the person who is to go to this competitive commission is to have high moral qualities and an irreprehensible business reputation, as can be said of those people whom we have been called, if Mrs. Rubanenko has reported in Russian and when colleagues have asked her to go to Ukraine, she has not. So, what country do we live in, and what moral values do we talk to you about? I also have a lot of questions about this office that was created. We have, you know, a point like this: we're the ones that are wearing clothes that are being destroyed and we're creating new bodies that are going to put more pressure on business, and we're going to put more pressure on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Instead of creating normal conditions and normal laws for their development, we simply destroy them. So I didn't understand the logic at all: they changed one to the other, the same workers. If you don't know, the tax police have been nightmares to this day about small businesses and middle-sized businessmen. So first, we need to look into law enforcement, not law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u57	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u59	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u60	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People! "The Opposition Platform for Life", National MP Mamka. I want to point out that change must always be. But, God forbid, live all the time in change. But the people of Ukraine are willing to accept if qualitative, open professional changes exist in law enforcement. At present, the baby can be called Baby, anything else, but it can be changed according to the new law, but the functions and powers so far remain undetermined. There is no bill that essentially needs to be considered and empowered in the hall. For the time being, the law is about creating a new body. Notice, a new one with old functions, and no new ones. Let's run the commission, let's run. Can the commission and the members of the commission be held accountable for the choice of inadequacy, for example? It's not there. Experts who have failed to show both the day of work in reforming or the creation of new bodies suggest that we vote for the time being. It's still necessary to look more at qualified professionals, professionals who can not only prove in theory, but also in practice prove what they've done and apply practical experience, then it'll be true. And for the time being, we haven't seen the people who introduced this bill and the candidates who said that wool is very respectable, but deserved, but "good guy" is just not a profession. We will not support these initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u61	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u62	Please give the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u63	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u64	Unfortunately, the creation of the baby came from the very beginning without any special understanding. I stress this because it's been four months since the adoption of the law, and two months later, the body has to work. A little later, you will learn what and what the situation is. And here's a list of the selections of the Supreme Council's representatives to the Commission for a competition to take office as Director of the Bureau of Economic Security. Here at the very beginning were some of the people's deputies from the "Serial of the People" faction, and they were being promoted by public organizations. So the public organizations were not particularly involved in the details that the majority of the people had addressed, the ones that were included in the list, and who would be comfortable with them, of course, would go to the members of the competition commission. Although it has been a formalism from the very beginning, it is an apathy of professional associations. Here's an example of a competition commission that was written about yesterday to take up the position of head of the SAP, an example of the coolness of the competition. And it's the case or the case, and then the betrayal of professional and transparent selection consumes the whole society. You said you were different. It's someone else who believes these unprincipled promises, who else believes it? So, when it comes to candidates, there was absolutely no representative represented here to discuss with each other, to represent a point of view, to understand what the Economic Security Bureau would do and who would lead it. There is no way to vote for these candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u65	Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich is a motive. After that, Shahov, we move on to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I will not stand by the candidates, they have been taken by the authorities, let them vote for them, but I want the principle. We're creating the Economic Security Bureau, which I sincerely voted for and supported. In order for her to take over the functions of BSI, the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the functions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and, yes, the functions of the tax police. And what the Cabinet of Ministers is doing right now, when, by breaking the law, they're subjugated by the BAB, not by the Cabinet of Ministers, as we passed in the law, but by the Ministry of Finance, it's bad. When we have a tax officer claiming he wants to lead this body and when the European Business Association, it turns out today that you can't let this happen because you promised a new body, it's bad. That's why I call primarily on MPs from the authorities to press the Cabinet of Ministers to really reform them, not another campaign for which we'll be ashamed of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, of course, the trust MPs voted for all anti-corruption bodies, and we're still working in parliament, we're voting for the economic security office. But there must be transparency, purity, responsibility everywhere. Today, if we can accept or not at this level, please tell OTG Markivska Lugansk region is being pressured by a local council member from the Party "Our Land" "ministers of the people" so that a woman displaced cannot work in the agricultural technology, imagine. And we're talking about the baby today. What transparency can it be that the head of the military and civilian administration has little to do with killing people, burning the Lugansk region, also pressing and taking all positions into the displaced? Who will be responsible? In general, in this state, will they be held accountable or not? Note this, Markovské OTG, deputy from "Our Land", woman emigrating. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u69	Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, get ready to vote. Ready? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on the appointment of the representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold a competition for the appointment of the Director of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine for the submission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy (Registration No. 5462). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:14]] For 242 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a competition for the appointment of the Director of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine for the submission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement (registration number 5494). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:21:55]] For 238. Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Decree on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to serve as the Director of the Bureau of Economic Security. We have just voted in favour of two representatives from the committee of our colleagues, and a lawman has been delegated by the Committee on Law Enforcement. On May 12, 2021, the committee held a special meeting, an open meeting, where I considered who to delegate. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the inclusion of a representative of the public organization Volontery Movement "Communication Meta" Ushakova Alexija Alexandrovich. You've got all the material on him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u71	Needed Discussion? Yeah? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Pippa Natalie Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u72	Osadchuk Andri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u73	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker, we've created a baby to stop the nightmare of business by law enforcement. It was clear that it is not possible to live like this anymore, and we will never build an economy and business in this country if we leave everything as it is. Now the baby is created, but it's only made on paper, we voted for this law, we have to create a competition commission, and it's going to make this body, like we thought it would, or not. Article 15 of the law clearly defines the requirements for a member of a competitive commission. It must be a person who has an irreprehensible business reputation, a high professional moral quality, it's clear that it must be a person who is known in an industry that is once again somehow known. It has happened that the Committee of Law is proposing to the Supreme Council Hall as such a major of the militia, who was released from office in the Odessa Militia, where he served as a senior officer, but turned out to be an unnecessary system that had been unemployed for a year. Only in February of this year did he drop out of the Odessa city’s employment center and appear to be currently engaged in legal activities. His experience on competitive committees was that, as he said on the committee, he once conducted an examination. My friends, that's how we don't have to do reform, that's how we can "shock" not business anymore, but "shock" the baby before it's created. It's totally unacceptable. That's why the Voice faction will vote against it. Similarly, we urge you not to embarrass yourself and announce the next selection, and to seek a better candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u75	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u76	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Fatherland won't support this draft decision, and I want to explain why. Look, it's about a competition for an extremely important position as Director of the newly created Authority of the Bureau of Economic Security. It's an organ that has to investigate all criminal matters in the economic sphere and make sure that all powers are in the same body. How is a competitive commission formed? It's all propaganda. Three representatives from the RNBO (read from the President), three representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers (read from the President) and three representatives from the Supreme Council. But not from factions, but from committees. Who has a majority in all committees and parliament? One Party of Servants of the People. There will be no representative of the opposition in the competitive commission to take office. Nine out of nine are representatives of the same party. I think it's full of propaganda, and I think this competition is going to be completely understandable and projected from the first minute. Now let's take a look at the representative we're being offered. You don't know him as well as we do not know him, but he represents a movement called Ushakov, the last name, represents a movement called "the common goal." In Italian, read, "The Goat of Nostra." I mean, from Goat Nostra, we're going to choose a representative that no one knows who this person is. So I think we really have to go completely differently to form such competitive commissions, where opposition representatives have to have their voice in order to control, in order to watch how this competition is going through and in order for the director to be elected, to really meet all the criteria and to fight crime, not the opposition, and not to pursue political beliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u77	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Regrettably, there are many deputies here who do not realize that they are creating such a funky body. And nobody's ever felt or seen it before, reading the law, that it's so framed, that everything you're talking about, about risk-oriented approaches to work, about other ways that the pressure on business is not going to happen. Please do not waste yourself or your brains on all Ukrainian citizens. Because you're completely wrong, even thinking about it right now. As for the creation of this organ. You realize that the members of the competition committee need to understand the work of the law enforcement system. It's a new law enforcement agency. What questions can they ask the future director? I've already heard that he's got an impeccable reputation. Sorry, one flawless reputation for a director of such an organ is not enough. There must be a worker with experience, with a high understanding of how we can implement in Ukrainian legislation the European model of conduct and operational-search activities and follow-up actions based on a risk-oriented approach. This is a completely new system of operation for the entire law enforcement system. In fact, it's very difficult to implement even in the National Police, where very experienced workers work. We know that this body will have all of the things that no one needs, the difficult things that are in the State Fiscal Service. This body can't work well and it can't do what we've been tasking ourselves with: taking out the pressure on business. The pressure on business will continue because you haven't even determined the subjectivity of this body, you haven't made it the only body to fight economic crime. So there's nothing to wait for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u79	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u80	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, with respect for each other, I understand the level and the intelligence and experience of my colleagues, but I don't really understand when a specific, fairly, let's say, focused question we're looking at on the surface of a global, big project. I remember the discussions that were at the time when we discussed the creation of such a law enforcement body in general. When we talked about the principles on which he would work, the structure, the schedule, the office, some duties, there was a deep discussion. Tell me, there has already been a fact – what we've been talking about has been created. Now we have to go through the final stage of this is to take away the leader qualitatively. And today we speak only of representatives recommended by the Supreme Council to a competitive commission. Clearly, once again, every political group and faction will be proposing some of its own candidature, believing that others have some flaws, and this is an endless discussion. So I think this is where we have to get out of the position that our colleagues in the profile committees have shown. Our committee of law enforcement has been determined by voting, and today we recommend the nomination that is now being made. Yes, it is not perfect, it is true. But this is a committee decision. And that's why now the hall has to either support it or determine another procedure. However, this question needs to be addressed. The Bureau of Economic Security should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u81	You do, don't you? I see, Speedhog, Shufrich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. After that, the speedboat Anna Constantinena. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, our faction will not support the draft order, this bill 5494. We believe that the principle of transparency is violated. Today I completely disagree with my colleagues who have already said that, unfortunately, instead of predicting transparency when choosing an organ that will actually control the activities of an economic security authority, we can create an authority that will persecute the opposition. Because when the authority appoints a controlling authority in relation to itself, it raises concerns that the authorities themselves will flee from control and will steal from the authorities. That's why we're absolutely against it. We demand transparency when we consider this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u83	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u84	Many colleagues here have talked about how many reforms are taking place in Ukraine. So, all that's going on in Ukraine right now is a tup-pup-pup-pup-pup-pup-pup-pup-pup-pup-pup-pup. These are our reforms. That is why we have the consequences we have. You know, I don't understand. If that's what we want. They've already created the Economic Security Bureau, so let's just call it the "Office of the President's Names." He'll assign the President's office there to the man he wants. And we're not going to have to worry about all this circus performance inexplicably for whom and for what. We will not vote in favour of the decree. And instead of being a nightmare to the new business body, please think about the real reforms and the really important bills that will help develop business in Ukraine, make a normal investment climate and involve investors in the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u85	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of a draft Decision on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a competition for the appointment of the Director of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine for the submission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection (registration No. 5494). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:35:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Act of Ukraine on the Development of Aeronautical Industry on the Support of Aircraft Building Industry to continue granting to Ukrainian airlines the transitional period for the transfer to domestic aircraft. It's a second reading. Is anyone insisting on the papers? Jujanina, two minutes instead of the right. And let's go to the vote. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, when you and I adopted this draft law on the first reading, we were very concerned about whether we have any program in Ukraine to support our aircraft construction. As I was preparing for my second reading, I found such an order from the Cabinet of Ministers from 1412 to 11.11.2020. This is the approval of the concept of a state-of-the-art science and technology programme for the development of the aviation industry for 10 years. That's how they described it, and they figured that for it to happen, it takes as much money as possible to put into this area, especially in the first 10 years of development. And the scenario is this, if you put 1 billion dollars a year, it's not going to stimulate development, which is going to lead to a decline in the sector. The base option is 2 billion a year. That's what they said, but it turns out that at the committee meeting, I raised this question because in accordance with this decision, I've made three amendments to the state budget to anticipate these costs for the development of aircraft construction. Unfortunately, it turns out that this document is not full of money, so there is absolutely no way to plan it for this year or even to commit it for the coming year because the manager does not claim it. I thank the members of the committee who have agreed to make a joint amendment to the 8th, which will still oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to provide funding from the state budget for the development of the aviation industry necessary for the restoration of the full-scale serial production of civilian aircraft in Ukraine. So I think that's the first step, and that's what we can do later.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u87	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Development of Planebuilding Industry on the Support of the Plane Building Industry (Registration No. 5301). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:39:26]] For 292 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts dealing with individual issues of bankruptcy for the period of implementation of measures aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of COPID-19 (registration number 4220). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:40:08]] For 252 Decision taken. The Deputy Justice Minister, Colomier Valery Rudolphovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u88	Thank you very much, fellow national MPs. Today, I have the honour to present to you the bill of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, which aims to provide additional compensatory measures for bankruptcy proceedings during, in fact, quarantine. In fact, a few changes are proposed by the President. Which is exactly what I'm going to tell you right now. First of all, it's suggested that we clarify how the creditor groups and the videoconference surveys are actually going to take place. In particular, we're predicting what's actually going to happen for the ECP. It is further suggested that the terms and the nature of the responsibilities of the arbitrator should be improved, since the President is actually proposing that the arbitrator should be released from solely disciplinary responsibility. There are also reasons for the extension of certain periods, namely, that they will be extended solely by the court and for the concern of one of the participants. Also, the procedure for filing an application for bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings by cancelling the moratorium on the opening of bankruptcy cases by the debtors of legal persons. Why is this important? First of all, the mechanism that sets up this moratorium now runs counter to article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Similarly, it is not based on social necessity, since the bankruptcy procedures themselves during quarantine did not increase even until the moratorium was in effect. One second. The ban on insolvency proceedings against the borrower violates the creditor’s rights because, in fact, the debt is increasing and the person cannot recover the funds. Similarly, the abolition of the moratorium is consistent with the principles set out by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which has repeatedly noted that the moratorium is a temporary measure exclusively. And if he's not justified and he's already met his basic goals, he has to be canceled. Thank you. That's why I'm asking you to support our bill. Presidential Bill, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Thank you, Valeria Rudolphovna. The word is given as a co-rapporteur to the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Alexia Vasilovich Movcana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u90	The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on March 3, 2021, in the format of the video conference, reviewed the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the resolution of individual bankruptcy procedures for the period of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of COPID-19 (registration No. 4220), submitted by the President of Ukraine. The draft law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy and the Ukrainian Law on the amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures for the Prevention of Bankruptcy Abuses for the period of action aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of COPID-19. In its conclusion of October 22, 2020, the main scientific and expert office made comments on the bill. The Budget Committee, in its conclusion of 18 November 2020, notes that the bill will not have a direct impact on the budget. If the law is enacted, it can take effect according to legislation. As a result of the discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, decided to introduce a draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the settlement of individual issues of bankruptcy procedures for the period of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of COPID-19, 4220, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommending that it be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Taking into account the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council on the elimination of some disagreements and the consideration of the comments made and proposals made to the bill, the Committee approved the decision to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the proposal to announce in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules of the Ukraine, during the consideration of the bill at the plenary meeting on the need for proposals and amendments for corrections, clarifications and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is there a need? Please sign up: two for, two against, then. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Taras Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u93	Taras Tarasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u94	Congratulations, fellows! I welcome the adoption of this law, in fact, we should have voted it long ago because throughout the moratorium that was adopted by the previous law, we have limited access by creditors to breaching the bankruptcy case. We should not forget that bankruptcy is one component of the economic development of the state and makes us more responsible for our economic activity. So far, the bill clearly continues the positive trend that has been adopted by our Supreme Council, namely the withdrawal of moratoriums. We've already taken out the currency lenders' moratorium, and we're going to be taking down the moratoriums that came about as a result of the worrisome situation. So we've got a lot of moratoriums ahead of us, 14 moratoriums, but I think we're also going to work out a map to all of us to remove any restrictions on economic activity in our country and to make business go free. The bill also introduces basic provisions for the execution and conduct of the creditors' assemblies, the creditors' committee, in electronic form. It's also an element of dijitalization that's important to us as to the state that's on these dijitalization rays. So we have to develop all spheres, and bankruptcy cannot be limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u95	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Pipi Natalia Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u96	Jaroslav's gun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u97	Jaroslav Ruššin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Taking into account that quarantines continue, additional compensatory mechanisms are needed to ensure the conduct of bankruptcy cases. The bill renews the possibility of opening up the bankruptcy proceedings of the debtors of legal persons on the basis of creditors’ claims to the borrower arising from March 12, 2020. But we have to note, and we hope that this will be corrected for the second reading, and that depends on how we vote, our vote will depend on what the bill provides for a real opportunity to confirm a person for a member of a committee of creditors who does not have the ECP in order to avoid the risk of registering in the future. Please pay attention to this, we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u99	The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u100	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" will certainly support this step, which will improve the state of affairs for individual subjects and legal persons in Ukraine. However, taking this opportunity and considering that there is a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine or of the Ministry of Economy, I would like to remind and emphasize that we need not legislation to go bankrupt, but legislation to stimulate, to stimulate the national economy, to modernize all spheres of the country's vitality, not just macroeconomic stability, but rapid economic growth, to advance economic development. Why am I talking about this? Because even if we took a 4 percent drop in GDP last year, we're all projected to get up to three percent this year. So the pace of national economic recovery doesn't even shift us to 2020, 2019. First. One second. The steps taken by today’s authorities lead to foreign policy, the so-called foreign policy of individual neighbouring countries, leading to the loss of markets. When we lose markets, we lose exports, we lose domestic industrial production, we lose jobs, we have debt on wages goes up, it's already 3.6 billion dollars. On the other hand, you also don't allow the economy of Ukraine to develop in the internal consumer market, because by raising the price of gas, you're washing the cost of the internal consumer market, for the population, the production of goods and services within the country is decreasing the tax base and so on. So the fundamental economic and macroeconomic monetary policy is contrary to economic laws and common sense. I repeat, we can support the Bankruptcy Act, but we don't have to prove it by economic policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is another performance, and after that, we will vote, so please. There's gonna be two more shows, okay? I'm going to ask you to invite the people's deputies to the hall. I give the floor to national deputy Taruti Sergey Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u102	Taruta, the Fatherland faction. Deputies! I want some attention so you can hear what this law is about. A year ago, we adopted a package of anti-crisis laws aimed at improving the lives of Ukrainians and improving business. For two months, the president reviewed it and signed it. Now the point is that at the request of the Justice Ministry, which lobbies, unfortunately, not business, but lobbying the governing. The leaders of bankruptcy. And so this is about forgetting about the pandemic today, forgetting about business and creating conditions for the business that survives today, creating conditions for permanent bankruptcy. I have great attention, listen to the business, this law is inappropriate today. We passed the right law a year ago that while there are anticrisis restrictions while there are pandemic restrictions, we cannot open bankruptcy procedures, we need to help business. And it is Law 3322, which was adopted a year ago, that it is intended that after limited measures regarding the pandemic 90 days later, we remove restrictions. Today, as long as we have limitations, we can't pass this law, because the "Paternity" party will vote against it. And yet I want to urge all MPs not to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u103	Thank you. We'll have three more shows in one minute. Please, Stepna Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction. I can see it, I can see it. And someone else raised their hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u104	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! You know, today we have an objective reality about real life and the future. We're living in a period of pandemic, COVID, processes in the country at the moment are not simple. At the same time, the bill and legislative initiatives propose to adjust the order of the creditors' meetings in videoconferencing and polling. We're talking about standardizing the procedures for holding creditors' assemblies, we're talking about the procedure for confirming a person's credentials and credentials. The other one. We're talking in the bill and we're clarifying the question of the responsibilities of the arbitrator. At the same time, the responsibilities of the arbitrator are not understood because he is effectively relieved of responsibility for failure to do so. But there is the first, the second reading, and the faction of "European Solidarity" supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u105	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Please, Anton Eduardoovich Polakov. And then there's Shahov, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, it's very strange to hear from a representative of the overlorded faction of "ministers of the people," that entrepreneurs have to take more responsibility for their economic activities. I also want to say that you have more responsibility for your pre-election program, in which you promised in business conditions: at the legislative level, we guarantee the continuity of the applicable tax conditions for small businesses, individuals. And you failed that promise right away in the first month of your cadence. Let's deal with the real problems of entrepreneurship, not just how they're going to go bankrupt. Why did we get 8,000 dollars out of 2 million entrepreneurs? Why did the loans promised by the President and the "servants" faction get only 17,000 entrepreneurs out of 2 million? You didn't ask that question? What is the support of small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u107	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u108	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, the doctor first diagnoses and then treats. And we have doctors in Kabmin, who first cut ten of the skins of entrepreneurs, they put the worst, the biggest electricity tariff for Donbas without solving business issues, they go bankrupt. They're putting gas in transit for the whole population, small, medium, big business by completely killing, and also for the people who are now living below the poverty line. Please tell me, when will stimulation be like in Europe, like in Asia? When is it going to stimulate small, medium, big business from the state, like the whole world during the pandemic? The economic crisis is coming, it's coming. Today, let the authorities finish all the business and be a raw asset. They'll come and pick up anything they can take. Let's put all the enterprises back on the takeover. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. Look at the small, medium-sized business and help them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u109	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the settlement of individual bankruptcy procedures for the period of implementation of measures aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of COPID-19 (registration No. 4220). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:42]] For 314 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u110	Please invite Ukrainian national deputies to the hall. Let us turn to the next question. We need to decide on a simplified procedure. Please. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (registration number 4409) It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. I would like to vote on the proposal to review the short procedure for the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (registration number 4409) Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:33:25]] For-182 Decision taken. The Deputy Justice Minister, Colomier Valery Rudolphovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u111	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, which we are actually making a number of technical changes to the current Code of Bankruptcy. What does that mean? In fact, in over a year of work, we have seen that there are actually technical inaccuracies in the code. Moreover, it was the Ministry of Justice that saw, in the drafting of the legal regulations, that there were some shortcomings that needed to be rectified. That's why, on the basis of a working group on bankruptcy that was formed by the Ministry of Justice, (the Steakholders involved are the courts, scientists, arbitrators, national deputies, other practices) we have just drafted and passed a bill to which we are making these changes. What is meant, actually, by technical inaccuracies. For example, we banally introduce terms such as "conflict of interest" is replaced by the term "real and potential conflict of interest." So we're actually just pushing the code to existing legislation. For example, we're replacing the word "borrower" instead of "bankurd." So again, we're going to introduce technical moments. In addition, it's with those technical moments that we're unlocking, for example, "transcord bankruptcy." Since it is precisely because of the way in which the code is established, we cannot apply it. In fact, once again, by cancelling certain standards, we're going to introduce and then we're going to be applying trans-border bankruptcy. That's why I'm asking you to support me. Because it's really quite technical. And the rest of the suggestions made by the right people on the committee of profile, I'm sure we'll work together again with the colleagues on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u112	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Aleksija Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on March 3, 2021, in the format of the video conference, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy (No. 4409 from November 20, 2020), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose and purpose of the draft law is to address technical differences and shortcomings, settle conflicting issues, and reconcile certain provisions of the code with one another. In its conclusion of February 8, 2021, the main scientific and expert office made comments on the bill. The Budget Committee, in its conclusion of February 17, 2021, notes that the bill will not have a direct impact on the budget. If the law is enacted, it may take effect within the time limit set by the author of the bill. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Economic Development Committee, decided to draft the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (Registration No. 4409) for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend that the first reading should be based on it. Taking into account the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the elimination of some disagreements and the consideration of the comments made and proposals made to the bill, the Committee approved the decision to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a proposal to declare, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, during the consideration of the bill in plenary session, on the need for proposals and amendments to correct the clarifications, the elimination of errors and contradictions in the text of Bill 4409, other structural parts of the bill and other legislative acts that were not subject to review in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Sure. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u116	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u117	Honourable Ruslane Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, although Minust spoke and conducted a great deal of work at the head of the Ministry of Justice as a whole on improving the contents of the bankruptcy code, the most plausible position we have discussed on the faction, and today I would like to propose three steps. First. The fact that the new automated system, designed and implemented by Minniest, to which donor funds will be used, has become more than just another system can be found as part of a large, only proper system. To do this, we need to think about integrating the amount of information we need from existing systems, including the attention of the GNEU. We're talking about a single court information and telecommunications system, an electronic trading system that's used to sell bankruptcy property. The other one. Equally important is the question of the clarity of the approach to state-owned enterprises or households with a major state package. There's no clear criteria as to whether it's bankruptcy, whether it's privatization. And the third position. That the transfer of property to a bankrupt legal person to the territorial community is a very questionable norm, which does not at all protect the rights of creditors, to which I have drawn attention to the committee meeting. But at the same time, when we talk about the "European Solidarity" faction, we support the first reading of the bill. Please refer to the Ministry of Justice between the first and second readings of these warnings and the comments that GNEU and I have made in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u118	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Eugene Vadimovich Bragara, the "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Taras Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u120	Taras Tarasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u121	Comrades, good afternoon! I also urge everyone to support this bill because the labour force on bankruptcy reform has actually been working on it for over 8 months. It was a completely open process, and even after its introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, discussions continued on its improvement. So the working group that was created by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is now actually taking those objections into account by the Chief Executive. And for the moment, we will clearly apply the relevant regulations in order for the bill to be, fully reflect the logic of bankruptcy procedures and stimulate the development of the economic situation in Ukraine. To colleagues who have criticized bankruptcy, which has led to the bankruptcy of many businesses, I would like to point out that most state-owned enterprises were already in bankruptcy by 2019. And they didn't just go bankrupt because of the moratorium. As for the responsible attitude of business towards its activities, I only support this idea that business should be responsible for its economy and adequately pay revenues, taxes on the state budget. If this doesn't happen, this business is going bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u122	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u123	Please pass the word to the Engineer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u124	A gun, please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we believe that this bill is just not worthy of adoption in the first reading and for this very reason. He needs substantial work to be done. The norm, which indicates that the property discovered after the closure of a case involving bankruptcy of a private legal person is passed on to the property of a territorial community that has no direct bearing on the founders of such a legal person, is contrary to the principle of legal certainty. It does not comply with article 13 of the Constitution, which provides for the equality of all subjects before the law. Moreover, the banking community notes that the bill makes the existing legal situation worse by banks, lenders in relation to debtors, the mechanisms for delaying bankruptcy procedures are being returned, as the repayment of funds to creditors is increasing and the mechanisms for the implementation of bankruptcy assets are being put into circulation at no cost, without taking into account the wishes of creditors. Please return this law for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u126	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u127	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please give the floor to National Deputy Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u128	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, let's be clear about what this law is about. This is the law that the three oligarchs that are now defined by all of your categories, namely: Pinchuku, Colomoysky, Ahmetov, create a metal fund. If I remember correctly, you promised a few million jobs there. And this law will shut down businesses with accelerated bankruptcy because everything will now be under control in a single institution, in Minsk. And by whom he has already fallen, everyone knows. And that's going to mean that people are actually going to be dispossessed. You don't support the same business, and today you're making it possible to turn it into a metal scrap metal base. I understand Mittal needs a metal scraper today that Pinchuku needs a metal scrape. This is understandable, but not at the expense of companies that can work in any way. So today we are drawing your attention to the following. Do you need any budget income? You said the rents were too low. Please raise interest on everything because it belongs to the people of Ukraine. If someone in the people of Ukraine takes it away, he has to pay for it. You didn't get enough of the rent, so you decided to kill the little ones to make something big to eat. That's why we're absolutely against it, and we've certainly supported the previous bill because it promotes businesses during COVID. And now we're proud, you're proud to have opened three centers for mass vaccination. There must be 300 in the country. And that's why we're now taking one of the first places in the current COVID mortality. Think of those who give people a job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u130	Thank you. All of them. Lubenets, Sobolev and Shahov. Sergey Vladislavovich, then Lubinets, then Shahov, we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u131	Good afternoon! Sobolje, Fatherland. In general, what's going on in the session room with the previous bill, where we decided that the crisis is over and now we can start the bankruptcy process, well, I think everyone who voted in favour of the previous Bankruptcy Act will be responsible for this in a total economic crisis. This law goes even further. So those who lobbied the first law now have their ears sticking out straight. It turns out that now the arbitrator needs not 5 percent of the property sold, but 10. Well, you see, five of them are short, but they sell everything for nothing. And there are dozens of such fleas found in this bill. Our faction will not vote for Ukraine’s total economy’s bankruptcy and the sale of Ukrainian property at no cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u132	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u133	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The MP's Party for the Future will vote and support the bill in the first reading. And we believe that the provisions of the bill that provide for the harmonization of the Code with the bankruptcy procedures between each other and the other laws deserve support. I think all the people's deputies in the room need to understand, if we now have a few laws that don't agree with each other, and sometimes even conflict with each other, then it makes absolutely sense that the Cabinet of Ministers is passing the prescribed bill, and the people's deputies are voting for it. I don't understand how someone here can lobby someone if they're essentially legal terms that start working with each other. But we're paying attention to the drafters of the bill that, first of all, the GNEU has identified a number of flaws, but experts say that we can take them away from the second reading. And from the point of view of the system that's going to be running.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u134	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u135	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, secondly, what kind of bankruptcy will the authorities of small and medium and large business today lead to? Why is there no business aid today? Why is NCREPT today twisting its hands, taking out the hands of entrepreneurs with the crazed tariffs that are in Donbas, three times as expensive as they are in Kiev? What people live in Lugansk and Donetsk today, like Kiev, please say. Although Kiev is not as sweet as it is. Secondly, please tell me when all the "accommodated" enterprises that have been destroyed and cut into scrap metal, flooded mines and today are starving people, buried parents and children are raising grandmothers. Please tell us, to what extent will people suffer today? When they check the Lyssodium, the Mechstelium, the RTIs in Lysichansk, who were destroyed, raped all the businesses, please tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u136	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading according to Part One of Article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the Code of Bankruptcy (Registration No. 4409). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:51:05]] For 256 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Credit Associations Act (registration number 5125, 5125-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:51:35.]] For 242 Decision taken. The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, ell Anatoliyevna, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes, both from the authors, and from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u137	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on March 18, 2021, reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine on credit unions (registration number 5125) (since 22.02.2021), introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine and others, and on specific issues of credit unions (registration number 5125-1) (since 09.03.2021), introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine Timoshenko and others. Bill No. 5125 proposes a conceptual update of the current Ukrainian Credit Associations Act with the aim of consolidating new approaches to the regulation of the credit unions market and the activities of credit unions. That is, first of all, expanding the list of services that credit unions will be able to provide to their members. Secondly, improving the procedure for licensing the activities of the credit union. Third. Improving the credit management system as well as the requirements for the structure of the credit union’s capital. Improving public oversight by the National Bank, as well as improving the procedure for the exit of credit from the market. In addition, the bill proposes to amend a number of Ukrainian legislative acts that correspond to the proposed bill. The purpose of Bill 5125-1 is to provide a legislative definition of the state's rehabilitation measures, i.e. the restoration of the payment capacity of credit unions, which in the period 2010-2019 came within the limits of bankruptcy or data that was unlawfully excluded from the register of financial institutions without the will of the same credit unions, or that are now within the limits of payability, as well as the organization of the process of liquidation of credit unions, whose liabilities to investors have been transferred to a renewed partnership. So bill of registration number 5125-1 does not fully regulate the market of credit unions and their activities. The bill is proposed to extend only to credit unions, directors, and members of credit unions who are excluded from the State Register of Financial Institutions and who do not comply with their obligations to their members. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Credit Association Act (registration number 5125), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies and others, to adopt it as a basis. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy to work out the prescribed bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the settlement of the problem of the restoration of the activities of credit unions excluded from the register of financial institutions. Thank you. I'm counting on backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u138	Thank you. People’s MP Zimbaluk Mikhailovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u139	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable People's Deputies! Julia Timoshenko and the group of authors propose an alternative bill number 5125-1. Project 5125, which is currently under consideration, pushes investors away not only from the legislative field but in all cases beyond social and economic life. The alternative bill is aimed at solving at at least 560 credit unions destroyed and eliminated in 2010-2019, unlawfully excluded from the register of financial institutions, which has become the main method of violating the state's legal rights, freedoms and interests of members of credit unions. The basic bill does not provide for compensation for the material damage caused to investors by destroyed credit unions. It does not provide for the restoration of dozens of credit unions as legal persons. And our alternative includes the possibility of restoring the debt of such loans in part of unrealized liabilities. That is to restore the rights that have been violated. Even though the funds are not paid to citizens directly from the time of the declaration and the recognition of such requirements, they will receive all the rights of investors under such new commitments. The alternative bill also provides preconditions for halting the reduction of credit unions as legal persons and the restoration of several tens of credit unions in the market, which will be more reliable. In addition, the alternative bill, unlike the basic bill, will ensure that the principle of equality of members is respected, a simplified procedure for holding general meetings in the event of a financial crisis. We suggest that we do not ignore the experience of developed countries and turn our faces back to credit card companies. Please support the alternative bill of Timoshenko and members of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u140	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u141	Please give Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u142	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u143	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, the Law on Credit Relations has been in place for over 20 years. Clearly, the issue needs to be settled, and the bill continues to restore standards and meet the requirements of modern times. In particular, when it comes to the positive aspects of the bill, there is an increase in the level of financial services for remote areas, cities and villages. We're going to support this bill in the first reading, but we're going to propose a whole series of rights. Because, as the GNEU points out, there are many inconsistencies in the bill. But at the same time, I would like to point out that the financial sector will continue to develop when overall economic development is appropriate. And we insist that we put the bills in the session room first and consider what are called to help solve the problems of entrepreneurs in times of economic crisis, in times of crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, as well as bills that are called upon to contribute to the creation of new jobs. In particular, we have repeatedly insisted that our bill, which solves the problems of entrepreneurs and helps them in times of crisis, be considered both in the committee and in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u144	Bragar Eugene Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u145	A very active, very serious problem in our society is the misuse of credit unions, which is caused by the lack of regulation of current legislation. The Bill 5125 deals with many issues of legislation, Ukraine's Credit Association Act, and it also improves the procedure of activity, the main feature of which is the increase in statutory capital. This bill will help to normalize the activities of credit unions. I strongly urge all of you to support it in order for credit unions to operate according to civilized standards of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u146	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u147	I beg your pardon, Mr. Head, to pass on to Juliana Nina Petrovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u148	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u149	Respectable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, mutual credit, and financial services at the expense of the combined monetary contributions of members of the credit union are the foundation for the creation of credit unions that have been active since the mid - 19th century. Almost 20 years ago, at the end of 2001, the Credit Associations Act was passed, and the position of which needs to be updated. But Project 5125 does not comprehensively address this problem, it creates additional risks to the development of credit unions. Yes, setting up for all credit companies without any differentiation actually at the level of banks strict requirements for the quality of corporate governance, capital, supervision of activities will make it impossible for them to create and operate, for example, even in rural areas. The plurality of enforcement rules for the adoption by the National Bank of Ukraine of relevant legislation does not allow the overall regulatory impact of the project to be assessed and the law to be implemented depending on the regulator. According to the GNEU, the project duplicates the position and terminology of many other legislative acts that are not focused on setting up features for regulating the activities of credit unions. And almost all of his articles need substantial technical and legal work. Once again, the Supreme Council is forced to consider raw underworked projects that change completely to second reading. As I pointed out last time, the faction of the European Solidarity political party will not support underworked projects, so it will continue to vote in favour of the first-reading loan partnership project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u150	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Is there anyone who's going to speak out of motive?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u151	Please pass the word to Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u152	Batenko. Bondar? Bondar Victor Vasilovich. After that, two more speeches with motives, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u153	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, respected colleagues, certainly, the issue of credit unions — one of the painful and important to all Ukrainians — many countries have survived the era of breaking up these credit unions. And now that we're reading this bill, we certainly expected it to be very hard to "screw the groves," so there wouldn't be any financial speculation, so there wouldn't be anything that people are just fooling around, making money out of them, "turning." And unfortunately, we've seen that this bill is just a set of more financial, banking terms, terminology that are undiscovered even by content. They confuse just the majority of people, citizens, and confuse even experienced lawyers. Because besides legal education, you have to have a special economic education to understand what it says. And everything else in this bill is proposed to regulate by law. And it's passed on to both Natzbank and the Cabinet of Ministers and many other authorities that seem to have to verify the activities of these credit unions. That's where I'm going with this. That the bill itself is necessary. But in the form and format in which it's made, it's not effective, it's not practical. And he doesn't essentially solve people's issues or credit unions. It's not clear who it's made for or what it's made for. That's why we propose, our MP group, to abstain from voting for this bill. Bring him back to the committee. And allow the authors to bring it into normal, divine form. So that he can really solve people's issues. So that he can really help people solve their financial and credit issues. And so that credit unions can work in the legal field, but including in very strict and limited conditions. So there's no chance of tampering, to make money on another man's misery, on another man's mountain. That's why we won't be supporting right now. And we suggest we send it for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u154	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u155	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we will not vote in favour of this bill. Because we think it's settled. If we really want to take care of our citizens' interests now, let's first find an opportunity to pay them back, attention, the $40 billion that was stolen from our predecessors. And 560 billion dollars were frozen in the 14-15 years of our citizens' contributions. Four hundred million were returned, but they were frozen at heading eight, and they were returning at heading 27. That's already mean. So now that we're actually encouraging people to continue filling out different credit unions, let's first think about how they can return what the state already has, the state has stolen from them, selling assets of bankrupt banks with 99% actually discounted. That's preposterous. Thank you for your attention. And people have to be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u156	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u157	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, when I was elected in the 16th year, walking through the courtyards and talking to people, many people complained about the same financial structures that robbed people. Today, we must put on a watchful alert from the State so that this will not happen again. In the first reading, we can support this bill, but with many amendments that we will introduce from the "Trust" group when we vote in the second reading. In this case, we need to watch closely how people today are being dragged into trade unions or MMMs that can rob people in this way, and not let the apherists do it today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u158	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u159	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, an alternative bill under number 5125-1 of Yulia Timoshenko and a group of deputies, apart from the one I have heard from the Supreme Council's rostrum, I propose that a mechanism be put in place to restore the rights of Ukrainian citizens living in occupied territories and in the annexed Crimea. I emphasize that such a mechanism will be an additional argument for these citizens in the process of reintegrating Donbas. We believe that with the support of an alternative bill, we will give and restore justice to those tens of millions of people who have lost their money in lost credit unions. Please support the alternative bill number 5125-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u160	Did everyone want to come out? I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the bill's draft registration number 5125. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, as set out in part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Law on Credit Relations (Registration No. 5125). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:09:50]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on support for the development of domestic drug use (registration number 4187). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:10:27]] For 244 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We have already discussed in this room Bill 4187 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on support for the development of domestic industries and drug use. And you know that the main goal of bringing it to Parliament is to create conditions for the development of drug use in Ukraine. At the beginning of February, this bill, because of your comments to a number of his positions, was sent for re-reading, and now the committee's second time he's in the room. As promised by my colleagues, most of the comments made by national deputies, public authorities, and industry associations were taken into account in the work of the project. We held numerous working sessions and constructive discussions. The NAMC and the anticorruption committee, as well as the vast majority of GNEU’s comments, are included in the work. As a result, today we have an amicable conclusion from NAZK, we have no comments on the project from the Ministry of Profiles, and the bill itself has been unanimously recommended by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use for adoption as a basis. With regard to the new comments of the GNEU and the authorities of the State, which are also a well - worked project, they are already being carefully worked out, and the right ones will certainly be taken into account. There are also point comments from business, some of which we have already discussed on the committee, which we are also working on in the formulation of the second reading. I can speak with full responsibility, and in that, I think, I'm supported by the national MPs who were actively involved in the process, that the project really got better. We've cleared up the issues and taken into account the proposals that will improve the legislative regulation of the sector and which I am very grateful for. I've narrowly outlined the major changes that have been made to the improvement of the drug use regulations. The position on the interactive map of the use of the drama and geology of Ukraine has been developed. There are clear requirements for documents to obtain special permits for auction results. Financial and economic calculations of the initial cost of granting special permits have been developed. Excludes the rules for deferring the cost of a winning auction permit. A modernized approach to disposing of the right to use public companies to prevent abuse. Excluded amendments to the code for "joint licenses." The pay for the continuation of special permits is excluded, which is currently at the legal level. Part of environmental protection issues is excluded by changes to the Nadra Code regarding the possibility of not carrying out ODS on damaged amber areas that are subject to active criticism. These are the positions that have been made by the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the EU and excluded. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, to which there were also many observations. In order to warn you about possible comments, I will note that a detailed edition, like the previous one, is proposed to cancel the existing opaque permit mechanism for useful fossils of local importance that is currently taking place outside the auction and foresees the approval of the acquisition of a special permit by local government authorities. We suggest that the auction area be auctioned on the basis of law and without further agreement. Please support the bill in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National MP, Polack Vladislav Mikolaiovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Watsaku Hennadiya Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u164	Please pass the word to Watzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u165	Gennady Wasak, 16th constituency, Trust Group. Business is looking forward to simplifications in economic activity, and we are obliged to help develop the country’s economy. The existing procedure for making use of noodles is complex and creates additional burdens. The route from initiating the auction to starting the actual use of the Nadr area may take several years. This is due to shortcomings in existing administrative processes. This bill provides for a simplification of the procedure for obtaining permits for the use of drama, especially in the implementation of the Presidential programme "Great Building". Thus, the adoption of the bill will create conditions for the development of the sector as a whole, as well as help to remove the shortages of useful fossils needed for road construction. "Trust" supports the bill and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u166	It's a good word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u167	Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u168	Good afternoon! Dmitri Kostuk Žitomirščina. Please give the floor to a true environmentalist, Alexander Marikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u169	Please, Alexander Marikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u170	Thank you, Dmitri. And happy birthday, Dmitri! Dear colleagues, today we are looking at a bill -- it's a real reform in drug abuse. What do we have now? Sleeping licenses, illegal mining, inefficient use of naphtha in Ukraine, when we need investment, we can't bring them into our country. What do we want to do with this bill? A transparent and accessible system and the public, and investors, reducing the influence of the state on the industry and solving the ongoing problems of the industries that have accumulated for many years. What do we propose? The country’s potential for anyone who wanted to join the drug use site could easily be found on the site where he would like to join the competition, so that he could track down everything that was going on. And all in all, through transparent tools, through effective reform, we can succeed. We now have this bill supported by the Ministry, and we understand that without NAZC, we also have NAZK's support, and the Anti-Corruption Committee supports it, all the important bodies that are supposed to support this bill are supporting it. So, colleagues, let's unite now and vote for the second environmental bill today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u171	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u172	Thank you. "European solidarity," consistent with environmental protection issues, will support this bill in its first reading. But we have a lot of serious comments that we're going to make right now. For example, the rule of granting citizens the right to part of the State's income from a salary is absolutely declarant, and this rule cannot be fulfilled. There's no such thing as state income. Instead, there are budget revenues, some of which the bill does not provide for. The new procedure for obtaining permits is wrong, and in many cases decisions are taken by public authorities without clear grounds for consent or refusal. The bill provides for only natural persons and does not provide for legal persons at all. The procedure for the sale of rights granted by a special authorisation is not regulated, it is unclear in which order and in what order changes will be made to the permit for the sale of rights, who is responsible, and which infringements are committed after the sale of rights. The auction permit is not sufficient reason for the development of the nadr, since without an agreement on the terms and conditions of use of the nadram it is invalid. There are no clear reasons, there are procedures for modifying the permit. The new grounds for revocation are blurry and allow a broad explanation of the reasons why the user loses his rights to use the drama. In doing so, the bill allows these grounds to be extended by other laws. The bill suggests that you completely give up when it comes to "joint licenses," not working with them. In particular, time limits are taken away, and users are obliged to take up work in selected areas. Even so, he regulates the issue with special media licenses, offers new procedures, shortens the list of documents, and actually simplifies the situation for business. So we're going to vote yes, but we're going to make amendments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u173	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u174	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague, Annie Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u175	Anna Speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u176	The parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill in the first reading, because creating a transparent, simple and understandable system for the use of nadrama, reducing over-state influence on the field, increasing competition and legalizing relations in the field of the use of nadram really needs Ukraine. And we are glad that there are such legislative initiatives where many of our colleagues are co-authors. There are also a number of comments to this bill, and we will apply for second reading. For example, it raises the question and there is a discussion proposal for a bill to increase the duration of short-term use from 5 to 20 years. It's very strange to see that 20 years is a short term in our lifetime. The other one. This is the abolition of mining drainage, which can have a negative impact on the environment and on the rights of others. Exclusion from the legislative acts of the name of the document which gives evidence of the right to use the nadrama. You can't let that happen either. There is also a question of excluding the local level of local mining of beneficial fossils and peat, which can lead to unwanted changes in the environment and increase environmental risks. Also, the offer is to allow the sale, use, or otherwise alienate of rights granted by a special permit for the use of nagrass. This is unacceptable because it can result in arbitrary rights and can have a negative impact on the effectiveness of mining. But in the first reading, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u177	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. After that, Coltunovich and Ironborn. Then we go to the vote. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Regrettably, what colleagues have said about the second reading being able to correct a lot of important comments is that I want to disappoint my colleagues a little bit because these remarks apply to the rules that prohibit 116 articles of the Rules. That is, what will now be voted on in the first reading will go exactly like this for the second reading. Unfortunately, the drafters ignored scientific expertise, namely, deregulation and liberalisation, leading essentially to the loss of state control over drug use, and that's very bad. The other one. The area of the occupied land under the adjacent area rule may be unlimited if this rule is passed. Do you have any idea what could be created in the use of land in Ukraine? And third, that's the main thing. Foreigners and foreign legal persons acquire a similar right to use nadrama as well as Ukrainian citizens. In fact, friends who are the object of the property of the Ukrainian people will be so accurately used by foreigners. Well, we never do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u179	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, considering that just a minute of time is a very short moment of priority, why this law has already been repeated. Now on the replay of the first reading and why it should be rejected. Many of you have chosen regions, majors. See the table below for rereading. Article 10 “Competitions of Rural, Rural, Urban and District Councils”, what standard is excluded? Conciliation, adhering to the purpose of geological study, development, and so forth. You are contrary to the basic principle of decentralization. It's the authority of the local government, the people who live there. Why do you deprive them of it? We used to have this experience when we wanted to get the solar gas from Shell and Chevron in the 12th or 13th year, Frequent technology, drinking water pollution, and didn't exactly give local councils -- Lvivska, Ivano-Frankivska, Kharkivska, Donetsk. So I urge you not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u181	Thank you. Let's go. The railroad, and we go to the vote. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the Voice Party has always supported initiatives aimed at simplifying the work with the state to make business transparent in terms of the state. This bill is the same. It's about to translate a lot of things into an electronic format. For which I thank both the committee and the developers, and Roman Opimah, who also cares for this bill. Yes, there is, of course, a note to him. We've all received letters from business and associations, but they all agree that on the first reading we have to support this bill, and on the second reading we have to work out. So I urge us to work and, of course, to support this fine initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u183	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to support the development of domestic drug use (registration No. 4187). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:27:37]] For 292 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles of Regional Policy (Registration No. 5323). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:28:25]] For 241 Decision taken. Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories, Ivan Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u184	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill was drafted by the government on time. The essence, if briefly, of the bill is on community planning, because the successful implementation of decentralization reform in Ukraine has actually created the previously unprecedented financial and administrative opportunities for local authorities to plan and implement projects, initiatives, to increase the potential of each community, each region. The new system of administration is a very important step in shaping and implementing an updated regional policy. The draft law provides for a comprehensive improvement of mechanisms for the implementation of State regional policy, changes in legal, organizational, financial and other mechanisms for the implementation of projects in the regions. In particular, the bill is aimed at solving a few key problems that I would like to highlight. Problem one. Today, there is virtually no single strategic planning system in Ukraine, and the strategic documents of the basic level communities do not harmonize. The bill therefore proposes to run a three-level strategic planning system — at state level, at regional level, and at the level of each community. The second problem is that there are significant disparities in the development of regions. The bill therefore proposes the development of regional programmes and the support of areas with the same socio-economic indicators. In particular, rural areas, urban agglomerations, Azov, the Black Sea, and so forth. The bill also provides for the creation of a single information system for monitoring the development of communities in such a way that every citizen, every citizen of his or her community, can see how a community is developing, what its infrastructure is, how funding is done, how support is provided. This is an extremely important bill in the context of decentralization reform. So please, honourable national deputies, support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Rublov Vejacheslav Volodymyrovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u186	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on State Authorities, Local Self - Government, Regional Policy, and Urbanization considered the bill on the principles of national regional policy. The Committee suggests recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part three of article 93, paragraph 1, part one of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles of Regional Policy should be incorporated into the agenda of the fifth session and that the results of the first reading should be adopted as a basis. Item 2. To take into account, when preparing the draft for second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, proposals and amendments for corrections, clarifications, deletions of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Colleagues, the bill came up with comments and proposals from the All-U.S. Associations: Associations of Ukrainian Cities, Ukrainian Association of Regional and District Councils, Association of United Territorial Communities, All-Ukrainian Association of Communities, Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the regional development agency of parts of the Ukrainian regions, which were incorporated by the committee during the preparation of the project for second reading. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u187	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u188	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u189	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u190	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Remember, there was a Party of Regions? They also had the name "regions," they talked about regions. But they did everything they could to ensure that the regions were squabbled between the regions and that the regions would never develop. And so that they may develop as feuds of these regions. Ukraine is in great need of regional policy. Ukraine is very much in need of areas with a well-known potential for development through natural resources through access to other areas to balance areas and regions with one another. That's why this policy is absolutely necessary. And this bill partially solves this issue. Of course, we will be working on the second reading. But we need to talk more about the complexity and the complexity not only at the regional level, but the complexity at the community level. And here I want to say that while we're giving communities the task of strategically developing and strategically planning, there's a huge risk. There's a risk of making it formal. There's a risk of just putting it as a requirement. And what do the communities get in the middle of the budget year? They're going to get extra pressure on the budget. And we've already seen an attempt to remove the excise. We've seen that cities of regional importance once had 75 percent of PFCs, now have 60 percent of PFCs and much more stress. We can see the transfer of property by adopting the law four months after the election. And communities in shock, they don't know what to do. We see that old age has taken away the opportunity to choose people, this right has been taken away. So, honourable colleagues, when we think about balanced regional development, we can't forget about communities, their financial capacity. And that's what we need to talk about more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u191	Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u192	Good afternoon! I ask you to pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u193	Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u194	Good afternoon, colleagues. See, this bill is really about the foundation and foundation of regional policy. In fact, the government has already taken the first step this year by adopting the State Regional Strategy by 2027. Now you have to adapt to this framework directly to each community's strategy. We understand very well that we cannot develop strategically urban agglomerations, for example, or high-rise areas, directly of John-Frankivsky or any other area. Therefore, the key roles in this bill are, firstly, the existence and subordination of a community strategy. Here we can discuss how much strategy each community should have, or only in a community that is large by population. I think the Ministry and I will be able to improve this position. Similarly, this bill is called upon to resuscitate regional development agencies, because it is not news for all, especially majorists, that they are not the tool that allows communities to develop and invest. So the bill is fundamental, conceptual, correct and, above all, it's about the development of regions, about the development of the state and about the development of every Ukrainian community that has to provide quality services to our citizens. That's why I'm going to be very concise. Asking him to support it as a basis. And you and I will correct it before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u195	Bacunec Pavel Andrivovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u196	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, in our country, there is really no single strategic development course, especially at a time when we have new communities. Often there is a new leadership within the community that does not always know how to strategically build the development of this or another territory within the newly created community. It is therefore clear that this bill requires that we resuscitate, give new breathing to the regional development agency, which will help guide the new communities, the local self-government authorities to create a single strategy for the development of the community, which will probably help to improve the lives of our fellow citizens in the territories. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u197	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u198	Alexei Honcharenko, European Solidarity." Dear friends, regional policy is not about the government district, and it's very important. Because we see and hear from the active authorities, from President Zelensky, we see first and foremost action on this territory. Friends, regional policy is about our regions. And the most important area for us today is Donbas. I only got back from Donbas this morning. Yesterday he worked all day, and we opened a new Gončarenko Center in Kostunica, which is very important, it's already the third, on Donbasa. It's in Lyman, Kramatski. And I want to tell you, there's a tremendous demand for everything in Ukrainian, there's a tremendous desire for Ukraine to be more there. But, unfortunately, Ukraine is very few there today. As a result, today we're hearing, "Donbas, that's right, even the controlled part, it's a pro-Russian region." That's not true! And people asked me to say from the Supreme Council rostrum that there are a lot of absolutely patriotic people. But these people, unfortunately, don't feel our support with you -- power, parliament, the President; there are more opportunities for development, there are more opportunities for them than banal things: learning Ukrainian language, learning Ukrainian history, knowing about their country, having opportunities for development there. It's very important, it's our job to do this with you. And so, my friends, I'm going to the Ministry, to the Cabinet of Ministers, to Parliament, to the President, let's work together to develop our Donbas. It's not a pro-Russian region, unfortunately, it's a largely deserted region, we have to fix it by going to the children, to the adults, changing the situation for the better. And then we'll see that Donbas is actually the patriotic region of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u199	Now it's the Coltunovich. Three more speeches with a motive. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, it's also very brief. If you want to understand this law empty or not, open it up, look at the forecast of the results, and they're not really there. We all know what the regional differentiation is, it's pretty high. If we, for example, had an average salary of more than 20,000 in Kiev, the Hersonian region had barely a tenth. So it's twice as big. The same is true of tariff policy. If we had a system bill, we would see a piece of a gross regional product. We'd see the share of exports, imports in every region. We'd see which tariffs are being proposed, more precisely their alignment, because we know that there's also, for example, tariff heat, which is twice as much in individual cities as there is in the capital. Although the income I've made for you is less in the regions. Industrial production, employment, population income, etc. These options need to be processed and shown to the second reading that this is not an empty document that can be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u201	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u202	Sobolje, Fatherland. The bill's authors, can you answer the question? Why has your draft law disappeared from reference to the need for strategic development plans in line with the Council of Europe and the European Union's legal and regulatory acts? Is that how you want to change the Constitution, where is Ukraine's clearly defined European strategy? The second question. Please tell me, do you change the Constitution by cleaning up a line like the circuits? So to finance district administrations, you have money. And you don't have money to finance areas and interdisciplinary programs. Well, say it honestly, then. Make changes to the Constitution, remove the notion of "regions" in the Constitution. And you're trying to change that through what's called strategic bills. Our faction will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u203	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u204	Dear drafters of the bill, the State Regional Policy is not just the Law on the Principles of State Regional Policy. This is also the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Economic and Social Development Programmes, which is also the Law on State Target Programmes. And you don't see any change in these key bills. As your colleague Sobolev rightly said, you propose to amend the preamble provided for in the Constitution by withdrawing your obligation to comply with the rules of the Council of Europe and the European Union. Is that a time limit? You suggest from five to eight to increase the number of state software documents that need to be agreed upon. Is that what you think decentralization is? And finally, you're going to offer to agree on everything that they're going to do in the regions in terms of their vision and development of their region with the Minregonbud. That's what you think decentralization is. Colleagues, as long as we don't call these beautiful bills beautiful words, they won't be like that until they're there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u205	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Regional Policy (Registration No. 5323). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:45:01]] For 247 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine with regard to the implementation of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation (registration number 5246). Is there someone you're insisting on? Can we vote? I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in the second reading and. What are you distracted from? Your work? Why don't we get to the vote? Three minutes, and we're voting, okay? That's a good idea. Please turn on Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich's microphone for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u206	Dear national MPs, the quality bill, in fact, the opposition constructively always helps for common sense, truth, power and most when they listen to it all. So I want to say about the second reading of this bill. People’s deputies, in fact, accepted in the first reading, between the first and the second, everyone tried to get the national MPs, including the majority, to submit their amendments, but the committee didn’t count at all. This is your attitude toward the law and the bills and to yourself. As far as the bill is concerned. In fact, if you compare the case system that is proposed by this bill, it can be beautiful, only it duplicates the GDR that exists. It is called the system and refers to the organs of pretrial investigation, the pretrial investigation. And here we have a judicial branch of power, and notice, the VACS, which will participate. When you open this system, which has been presented to both members of our committee, and compare it to the only register of trial investigations, one in a row. Is this a duplication of functions? No, it's not. They say it's a new system. And how will they work, what will be the basic system, and what will be the additional system? If the court takes part in the work, does the system participate in electronic documents, data registrations, and what articles and changes are regulated? And I'll tell you that this bill does not modify some of the legislative acts, articles 38, 216 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the NABA Act and all the other normative acts. Will it work? It's good for someone. It is said that a system is made for the money of international partners, but note that it duplicates the functions of an existing system. But you can buy a program for one dollar, but it will cost the state millions for taxpayers. Are we helping or are we hurting? The answer is obvious: We are crippled. Who would benefit from that? And it is convenient for those leaders of the state to confuse this law - enforcement system, which is already sitting, more loyally, laid down by those leaders who are politicians. My idea, after all, is to work it out, to fix it, to clean it up, to make it quality, and still to apply it faithfully in the work of law enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u207	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich, for the constructive position of opposition. We can go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code for the implementation of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation (Registration No. 5246). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:49:52]] For 276 Decision taken. Next question of the agenda. The Zavnovich is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues, please remove Law 4545 in connection with further consultations on the committee and other committees that are relevant to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u209	I understand that the proposal came today not to consider bill registration number 4545. Right? Is anyone going to deny it? [[B in m in s a l in]] What, the vote? Who? Two factions. I bet. I can't break the law, dear colleagues. The two factions insist that this issue be considered. I now put to the vote Mr. Zaveznevitch's proposal not to consider bill number 4545 today. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:51:32]] For 260 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine regarding the renaming of the Social Fund. Let's do it later. What's the procedure? As far as the bill is concerned? Let's go through this and get back to the procedure. Draft legislation amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the renaming of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation in the field of social protection for persons with disabilities" with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I'll put him to the vote. There's another procedure, there's a speech and a question. The Deputy Justice Minister, Colomier Valery Rudolphovna, is invited to attend. 5 minutes, 15 minutes, a question to the rapporteur, and up to 5 minutes, a speech to the committee. Then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u210	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council has indeed passed this bill. At the same time, on February 18, the President of Ukraine returned with his proposals. I'm not really going to take up a lot of time because the offer is actually very simple. The date of entry into force is January 1st, 21st. I think everyone in this room understands perfectly that according to the Constitution, the law cannot take effect, to regulate some relationship that actually arose after its adoption. In this connection, the President of Ukraine proposes section III, paragraph 1, of the End of the Law: this law takes effect from the day of its publication. This is consistent with both the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court's decision and the general theory of law. Thank you. I'll thank you for asking if they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u211	Please sign up for the interview. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, we are now considering a change: instead of January 1, 2021, we are changing the law into a law that comes into force after it is published. My question is, what are we wasting our time for? Let's vote it out, I think it's a really technical change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u213	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u214	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, I fully support this position, because it is indeed a technical change in accordance with the current Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u215	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u216	Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u217	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u218	Alexei Hotcharenko. Please tell me, how many of these technical things are there, this is a re-examination of the President's proposals? There are completely technical questions that are being asked. The Supreme Council is now wasting time on what? And that these endless names, which the active authorities were endlessly engaged in, when one ministry was created, then it was disbanded. Some kind of infinite engine we had. And once again, we're renaming something, and we're looking at it, and we have the President's corresponding proposals. How about we finally do some specific work, not endless renamings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u219	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, at this point in time, this change doesn't apply to renaming. The President made absolutely logical and legitimate use of his initiative and opportunity in accordance with the law, regulation and Constitution of Ukraine to amend the law to meet the highest regulation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u220	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u222	Thanks for the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u223	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u224	Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich, your honor, you know, I have such a question for Minister Valeria Rudolphovna. Dear Mrs. Valeria, do you not think that the best means of social protection for the unprotected population in Ukraine today would not only be in Parliament to consider this bill, which "European Solidarity" will of course support, but also to consider a bill that has been tabled by the opposition to raise and increase the amount of money allocated in the 2021 budget for subsidies and to protect the population through subsidies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u225	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, this question is not in the Department of Justice's office. And that's why I think that the question of putting those or other bills before the Committee and the Supreme Council is not a question of executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u226	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u227	Dear Chairman, please pass the word to the Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u228	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u229	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! It's just a joke when the law was passed on January 27, 21st, and it has been in force since January 1st. Do you ever get any professional skills there or not? And who's going to be responsible for the fairy tales you're cooking, vote, and then we're going to be wasting our time. At the same time, people with limited resources today receive little money from the State, no support, and no help. And instead of developing a really effective mechanism to support people with limited capabilities, we're here to look at the worthless bills. Therefore, dear colleagues, we appeal to you not to have a circus in the Council but to make the right decision. Thank you. And punish those who do these things by subverting you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u230	Thank you for asking. And that's what these changes actually are for technical rights, because they can actually be technical errors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u231	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u232	It's actually a technical decision that we just have to make, and we can't disagree here. But since we have this procedure, I would like to address you as the representative and the ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers on the Day, in fact, the protection of children. Recently, a very positive event occurred when the parents of the House of Svičinski of Odessa raised a huge amount to save their child from spinal muscular atrophy. But we have over 200 children with such a disease who have every chance of staying sick. A huge request: please refer to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Minister of Profiles, the truth is, it's for the Ministry of Social Policy and Health, but it's your responsibility to protect society, and it's your responsibility to jointly develop a program for children like that in other countries to have a chance at a full life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Jurczyn. It's really an important question. And what I'm going to say is that today, on Children's Rights Day, the Cabinet of Ministers isn't a little bit in that direction, but I'm going to point out is that a bill has just been passed that applies to child justice. So the government is really working towards protecting the rights of the child, and we're going to keep doing this in every direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u234	The word is given to National Deputy Kostenek Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, let's start to vote on these necessary changes and move on in the daytime, because this is a technical stretch, we're just wasting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u236	Grand Chief Mikhailo Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u237	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u238	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u239	Madam Deputy Minister, I wanted to thank you first of all for actively fighting for the rights of Ukrainian children. In particular, using today's June 1st to protect children's rights. And you know about the situation with the illegal transfer of a German citizen to Germany of a Ukrainian boy, a Ukrainian citizen. And this is the first time that the Germans are not putting up claims against Ukraine for such things, namely, Ukraine will be fighting for the rights of the child and for the rights of its mother to return an illegal child to Ukraine. Please tell us at what stage this situation is now and how active the Ministry of Justice can continue to make sure that this issue is resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u240	Thank you for asking. In fact, we've actually sent literally, if I'm not mistaken, a request last week, in accordance with our instructions, to the law, to the German Ministry of Justice. We're actively communicating with them now. And I want to say that actually the issue of international kidnapping is really very important. As far as I know, there will be an appropriate bill on the Committee of Law tomorrow, and I can be wrong, including on these issues. And I want to say that the Ministry of Justice is going to present its initiative in a similar way soon, which is actually going to be related to how children are exported abroad. On the one hand, it'll simplify this process. But on the other hand, it won't be possible to kidnap children in this way so that they can't actually go back to Ukraine. So thank you. In fact, we are actively working in this direction. And specifically in this case, as in others.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u241	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u242	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u243	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u244	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, for speaking out. I'd like to pay attention, first of all, to the hall that we won't and our faction won't support the President's changes. Not because they are inappropriate, but because a serious mistake has been made. About what my colleague Natalia Královska said when they voted on the law in January, which takes effect on January 1. It makes sense. But I'm sorry, it's already "plentus full" when the papers are introduced into the hall -- this time. The other one. If the President is so concerned with the social protection of the disabled that the fund has decided to take over, why are they not raising aid for the disabled? Do you have any idea what size it's going to be? Because today, for people who have lost their jobs, the figure is 1 thousand 769 dollars. It's equal to the minimum pension. So from this point of view, it's a ridiculous cost. How will they be viewed, in which way? Once upon a time, we have come up with such an important topic regarding the support of disabled people in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u245	Thank you, Mr. Coltunovich. I'm really sorry that you won't support this bill. Because, as I understand it, parliamentarians, including the right to defend the Constitution of Ukraine. It's just a project that protects and supports the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u246	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u247	Thank you. Please tell me, before the bill is passed, the date and standard for the introduction of the legislative act you are initiating are calculated. As soon as you do. In what way did you expect this to happen, that you submitted a document that was in advance, which was largely adopted in the area, and now you're wasting Parliament's time to make the changes you're proposing again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u248	Thank you for asking. In fact, it is now suggested that this law takes effect from the day following its publication, which is a purely technical change that is called upon, in fact, for the law to correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and, in particular, to issues related to the publication and application of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u249	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u250	I propose a vote. The Voice faction will be in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u251	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u252	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u253	Thank you, Mr. Head. He just opened the base body of the document, an explanatory note, an impact on the budget, other indicators. And most importantly, adoption of an act will not affect socio-economic development and other moments. Why change the name of the fund if they don't have any resource base or budget base, they don't have any increase, what we talked about in the previous question of social standards. In what sense and when will those with disabilities receive that worthy help? I'll repeat, what's the number, what's the prognosis, maybe there's some extra benefit? What is the point of renaming the Disabled People’s Fund, insurance for disabled persons, in addition to pure language? Because for us, first and foremost, our electorate has an interesting socio-economic effect, an economic effect on the implementation of an initiative. We're waiting for the government position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u254	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, the question of renaming is really a question that involves standardizing the work of an organ, and including this bill has also provided for changes to be made in order for other legal acts to comply with this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u255	Thank you. Please have a seat. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend. Then we go to the vote. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u256	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council adopted a bill on January 27th, and the President proposes section III, paragraph 1, of the Act "The Final Position" as follows: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." The committee at its meeting on March 1st decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it support the President’s proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u257	Invite the national deputies to the hall. There's one president's proposal taken into account by the committee. Now it's going to be confirmed and then there's going to be a vote in favour of the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I'm betting on President number one's vote, it was taken into account by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:09:58]] For 304 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Law on Change in Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Renamement of the Fund for Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities and on Terminology in the Field of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (since 18.02.2021) (Registration No. 3964). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:10:51]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Schulak's out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u258	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I have an offer. I ask you to change the turn of the debate and now consider Bill 5009, which is about simplifying the integration of electricity networks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u259	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Is there no objection? None. Or if it's necessary. Can we just vote? I'll bet you a vote. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the integration of electricity networks (registration No. 5009). Please support and vote. [[14:11:58]] For 314 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I was visited by representatives of several MP factions and groups asking for a second review of the bill (registration number 3821). It's a bill amending the Ukrainian Post Office Act. No discussion. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. And it's offered as a basis and as a whole. There is also no objection. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act (Registration No. 3821). Please support and vote. [[14:12:53]] For 305 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending the Ukrainian Post Office Act registration number 38. Do you mind? I am voting on the proposal to cut in half and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3821). Please support and vote. [[14:13:41]] For 266 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Now, wait. "Prevention of corruption" on the organization of individual protection issues of detection, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 3450). Needed to Be Discussed? With questions? The Deputy Justice Minister, Colomier Valery Rudolphovna, is invited to attend. In five minutes – a speech, then within 15 minutes – questions from Ukrainian national deputies, then the committee and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u260	Thank you very much. Honourable national MPs, according to the President's proposals, which were made in March months before the bill was passed, could not be signed for a number of reasons. As regards the harmonization of terminology and the absence of a detailed order of operation in the law of the Single Discovery Portal, the purpose and purpose of the detection process, the amount of data to be entered into it, the data protection order, the cases, the grounds and the circle of persons to whom the data is made available, the responsibility for the illegal use or disclosure of the data. So the President is actually proposing to reconcile the positions of paragraphs 21 and 23 of the first article 1 and part of the first article 53. 1 to each other. Similarly, the position of part three of the prime article 53 needs to be reconciled. the law on the operation of the Single Discovery Portal. In particular, in connection with this Supreme Council Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy at its meeting held on 30 March this year, paragraphs 21 and 23 of the first part of article 1 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act are proposed to be made in accordance with the President's proposals. It is also part one and third of article 53. 1 The Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act is also proposed to be drafted and consistent with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. In addition, regarding the requirements for reports of potential corruption or corruption - related offences. According to the President's proposals, the second part of article 53 needs to be reconciled with a paragraph of the second part of the law, which is virtually nullified in the current Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, which states that corruption is possible. Moreover, the stated provisions of the law do not provide a clear understanding of the criteria by which certain facts can be determined as to how well known. This will inevitably result in the uneven application of the relevant provisions of the law in practice, as well as the creation of a basis for abuse by authorized persons of the relevant subjects during the prior examination and evaluation of information reported by the revealors on the possible facts of corruption or corruption-related offences. In connection with this, a decision on a new edition of part two of article 53 of the law, which is actually in response to the President’s proposal, was also approved by the committee. And about changing the payout's terms. Similarly, according to the President’s proposals, part two of article 53 of the Code of Criminal Procedure needs to be reconciled with article 130 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code on the amendment of the condition of payment of the payout. The law actually changes the terms of the payout, unlike the actual order of payment of the payout, depending on the State’s revenue, value, and other property or money, which is in fact the value of such property. This will result in competition with the relevant provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act and the Criminal Procedure Code, and logically this will lead to different application in practice. This testifies to the failure of the regulatory mechanism and does not, in fact, correspond to the 8th article of the Constitution of the rule of law and poses appropriate risks to the discoverers themselves. In connection with this Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Anticorruption Policy, it is suggested that the changes to part two of article 53 be excluded. 7 The Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act is proposed by law, according to which the amount of remuneration is 10 per cent of the monetary size of the subject of corruption or the corresponding amount of damage to the State from such crime. Thank you for your attention. And I ask your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u261	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will there be questions for Valeria Rudolphovna? Then I'd like you to sign up for those who have questions. The word is given to National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u262	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u263	Geo Bagratovich Leros, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u264	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We have a lot of bodies, like the D.B.R., the N.A.K., the Attorney General's Office, and I have an offer to the Deputy Minister of Justice to create another body that will control the perpetrators of corruption, which will be called B.E., the brothers of Germany. So this will help in the further more balanced control of all corruption exhibitors who will talk about corruption in the President's environment, in the context of other branches of government. That's why I have this proposition for you: how do we secure this so that the brothers of Germany get a permanent legal status of their activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u265	Thank you so much for the question and the offer. In fact, I want to say that the Ministry of Justice is doing the same thing to expose corruption, so it's probably inappropriate to create an organ. I would like to point out that according to our lawyers and lawyers who cooperate with us in the free legal aid system, they provide free legal aid to the perpetrators of corruption, and thanks in particular to you, thank you, because it is in your calling that you have supported the relevant bill, which has provided such an opportunity for the perpetrators of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u266	Thank you, Valeria Rudolphovna. The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Ustinovy Alexandri Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u267	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u268	The word is given to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u269	Well, my friends, I see we have another 15 minutes, and I'm going to remind you how the corrupt system of the German brothers works under Zelensky's cover. Sadly, in this country, it is normal for the brothers of Germany to be the principal corrupters in the country. The whole country already sees these people pillaging our country with impunity, and without competition, they're assigning their people as assistants. So I hope that the corruption detection system will work, and Mr. Jermak and Green will not be able to resist this system. Thank you. I hope they'll give me some more questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u270	Thank you for asking. In fact, the system of corruption discoverers is about to start working even better, because it's been working all the time and thanks to the changes that you have today, which I'm very much asking you all to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u271	Thank you, Valeria Rudolphovna. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Road of Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u272	Mikola Road, 162 constituency, Sumstina. I support the legislative initiatives, and I appeal to you as a representative of Minsk with the appeal of voters who have asked me to speed up the quality work of the corruption detection institute in general. Therefore, success and inspiration are what I propose to support all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u273	Thank you very much. Today, when you make that decision, you will do what your electorate asks of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u274	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u275	Please pass the word to Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u276	Please, Deputy Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u277	Well, I'm not going to speak with political slogans, I'm going to try to come up with a few questions. Well, first of all, the Finder's Institute. It's not new, it's already working. I don't understand why the author says it's going to work. Before you speak, you lacked some of the reforms you need to show the results. Why? First. When does the Institute come into operation or does it work, the detection institute? The other one. The term of criminal investigation is 2 months. This fight against corruption, anything else, can be extended to one year. For more than a year now, the Law on Revealers has been in force. Please state the results. And you, from the rostrum here, told the people's deputies in good faith that you'd analyzed the uneven application of the law. Please tell me where to read it, what you've analyzed, and why, what's not working? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u278	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, I want to point out that to the actual result of the work of the detection institute, we can judge, in fact, from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, exactly how many exhibitors are asking us for free legal aid, because we are not law enforcement, logically that we can only provide legal aid. And I want to point out that it's actually very bad, but these are isolated cases. What does this talk about? Which is what this institution needs to develop, and we need more time to make legal representations, to tell people how these organs can actually be addressed in order for this institution to become the most widely distributed. But that's perfectly logical, because it really doesn't work that long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u279	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Leros Geo Bagratovich, who is non-fractional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u280	Dear friends, I want to remind you how the corruption detection system in Ukraine works. On March 29, 2020, I published video recordings where my brother, the head of the U.S. President’s office, was selling government offices under the cover of his brother. A day after Mr. Jermak’s influence, four criminal cases were opened against me. And here's how the corruption detection system works. So I advise all who will expose corruption in the future to think 500 times before pointing to anyone. Because from the first case, he's the one who's going to be exposed to criminal cases. But unfortunately, it will only take place under the presidency of Zelenski for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u281	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, you show by your statement that you are not actually satisfied with the work of this institution. And I want to point out that it is the bill that I have today that I have the honour to report to the President of Ukraine for the development and improvement of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u282	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u283	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u284	Please, Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u285	This time I'll have a question for the reporter. One day you need to protect the perpetrators of corruption, because at the legislative level, unfortunately, it is not possible. As long as there's a German OPG that affects law enforcement that affects all branches of government, we're not going to get a decent operation of this law. So my question to you is, how exactly are you going to protect the perpetrators of corruption from such cases, when it is Mr. Jermak's OPG, the President's secretaries, that will influence the perpetrators of corruption to remain silent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u286	Thank you for asking. I would like to reiterate that in the country of Ukraine there is a State-guaranteed right to legal aid. It is the Ministry of Justice, in charge of this structure, that provides legal aid and support in all necessary matters relating both to criminal matters and, perhaps, to distortions of the rights of discipliners in the conduct of, for example, dismissal or perhaps some administrative pressure. That's what we're doing. So from your point of view, and including through the bill you've adopted, the law already, we can do it on behalf of the state at the moment on account of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u287	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u288	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the national MP, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u289	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u290	I always listen very carefully to the reporter’s answer, but out of three questions, I did not get an answer. But, in fact, we are already starting as Ukrainian citizens to get used to such answers from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. What I'm trying to say is that the detection institute works or doesn't work, is it or isn't it? These standards exist. So please, at the end of the day, when your colleagues in power were telling the people in this rostrum that once the detection institute went ahead, all the corrupts would be exposed, all of them would get 10 percent of what they forgot to say. There are also some in this room as exhibitors, and the law protects them, and the reforms are sufficient, and the protection is also. But did the discoverer receive any funds from the criminal conduct? We still have to do the work, not make the changes to the non-acting organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u291	Thank you for asking. In fact, in one of my answers, I pointed out that this is really not the institution that we are currently introducing and implementing. It's an active institution. And I want to point out that these are the inaccuracies that we are currently considering with the President's proposals regarding registering, paying, are the very things that will ensure the better development of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u292	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Lebanese Angelica of Victoria, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u293	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Kabachenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u294	Please, Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u295	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction, Secretary of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy. From practical experience, I can responsibly say that it is not working at this point in time. In 2019 we voted in favour of this bill and we are making a fourth change to it today. So this is the fourth time we've reviewed the bill, which is the Ukrainian Offender Act. Why are we looking at it? Because the basic definition of discoverers in this bill does not meet any of the world's standards. I now have in my hands the Directive of the European Parliament of 23 October 2019, which sets out very clearly what a finder is. The discoverer is a person who works in a public body, in a company or in a private structure, or is a person of the system. What you've just written in the bill is not a whistleblower at all, it's rather a rat. And so my question is very simple. Why don't you want to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with European legislation in part of detection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u296	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, the question of harmonising Ukrainian legislation with European legislation was much of the work of the Ministry of Justice in its own time. And maybe it's actually appropriate for you to notice. But I would like to point out that, at this stage, we are considering the President's proposals for a bill that he returned in connection with the fact that he could not sign it because of certain inadequacies to the laws in force and to the Constitution. And that's why I'm actually asking for this moment to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u297	Thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat. The chairman of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Radina Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u298	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy reviewed the President's proposals for the February 4th bill and suggested that the President's proposals be accepted. I note that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also proposes to accept the President's proposals. But before I stop in the position of the President, my colleague, I want to remind you of what this bill was about from the beginning. This bill was supposed to allow for the creation of an additional information and telecommunications tool, namely, the only register of detectors that would actually report the discoverers, and that would make all the other bodies work. For the time being, the law requires all organs, hundreds of bodies, to create their own separate channels, to spend money on them, to use different approaches. This bill was about saving government funds, creating one portal through which everyone would work, and which would provide a unified approach to protecting detection. Colleagues, the President's proposals for this bill are summarized as follows. First: to clearly anticipate the purpose and purpose of processing detection data in this portal, to resolve the issues of data availability and access to this data. The committee agreed with this proposal, and it suggests that it be supported. Second, colleagues, the President pointed out that it is necessary to ensure that a valid rule of law, a rule of law that is still in force today, namely, to give whistleblowers the opportunity to report possible offences, the offences that are planned, not to turn the whistleblowers' reports into a fight against the fireblowers themselves. To this end, exclude the proposed formulation law, which obliges the discoverer to report only facts that are well - known. The committee agreed with the president’s proposal. Come on, colleagues. The president pointed out that the issue of payoff should be unified in the Anti-Corruption Act and in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. The committee agreed to this proposal and ruled out the law of innovation for reports of payouts. At the same time, the committee agrees that this concept can be reviewed. But this must be done by a separate Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code. And finally, the president pointed out that the law should have a uniform approach to defining, actually, the channels of exposure. The committee agreed with this proposal and proposes that, in summary, colleagues take into account the President’s proposals and take these proposals into account to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u299	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Now we're going to put to the vote four amendments that are counted by the committee. Then we vote for the law as a whole. I'm betting on the vote number one of the President of Ukraine, proposal number one of the President of Ukraine. She was counted by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:37:19]] For 290 Offer number two. Considered by the committee. Please support and vote. [[14:37:38]] For 293 Decision taken. President 3's proposal. It is also considered by the committee. Please support and vote. [[14:37:56]] For 293 Decision taken. And offer number four. I was also counted by the committee. [[14:38:16]] For 292 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the Prevention of Corruption on the Organization of Certain Protection Issues of Disclosure, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (from 03.03. 2021) (registration number 3450) Please support and vote. [[14:38:55]] For 281 Decision taken. The procedure is by David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u300	Please give the floor to Lady Bullach, the author of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u301	David Georgiyovich, you approached me, there's no word here, it's not the factions. Turn on the microphone, please, Arachami. Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u302	Thank you for your attention. I understand that everyone loves it when I talk. 4358 We have a bill that is very important today on Child Protection Day, which is about protecting the health of the population from the harmful effects of tobacco. Many of the norms that are actually now allowing for banning the advertising of harmful tobacco products among children’s audiences and young people. So I would like to raise this bill, support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u303	Change the schedule, yes, the agenda issues did you mean? There's no objection, can we? Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the proposal by David Georgiyovich Arahamaia to consider the bill of registration now number 4358. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:40:50]] For 294 Decision taken. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the protection of the health of the population against the harmful effects of tobacco (re-reading) (Registration No. 4358). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:41:29]] For 339 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Act on Materials and Objects that Contact Food (Registration No. 4568). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:42:19]] For 251 Is Discussment Needed? Yeah. Please welcome the national deputy of Ukraine, Mezenceva Maria Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u304	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, thank you very much. Today we have a day of European integration, a day of health, an International Children’s Day, and in general, a beautiful day. Friends, today we are voting on the first reading of the historic bill. I'm showing a little bit here in the rostrum with what it's related to. This is due to the fact that you and I drink coffee or take food to work or to the office each day. This whole package must be safe. In 30 years, there has been no such law in Ukraine — the safety of the food package. Today, all the profiling committees supported him. It deals on a complex basis with the safety of various materials and objects that are in contact with the food package. It regulates all the Euro-Integration requirements aimed at implementing Chapter 4, Health and phytosanitary measures, of Chapter IV, Trade and Trade-related Issues, and directly affects the Association Agreement with the European Union. But, friends, this is primarily about health. Part of the food producers are already in compliance with these conditions. We need everyone to do this. Because there are toxic chemicals that come not only to us, but already to humans who are adults, but also to babies. Thus, the adoption of this law will contribute to the production, circulation and use of safe food products in Ukraine, the cessation of production and the cessation of imports, and the removal from circulation of hazardous materials, as well as the reduction of the risk of a negative impact on your health, on the health of all Ukrainians. I thank the European Commission, the Eco-Committee, the agro committee, and also Mr. Głushchenka of the Ministry of Profiles. Colleagues, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u305	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u306	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture and Land Policy at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Materials and Objects that Contact Foods (Registration No. 4568). This bill is called upon to harmonise Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation on food safety. We all know that the composition of the product is important for the food, but its packaging is equally important. Because it is necessary to protect the product in transport, storage, and implementation, as well as as as a medium of information about the product and its manufacturer, and in order not to harm the consumer’s health, the package must be safe and quality. Today, there is no legislative regulation on the matter of materials and objects that are in contact with food. The adoption of the bill will have a positive effect on consumer health, since it regulates the production and circulation of safe materials and products for direct or indirect contact with food products in Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's decision and to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u307	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u308	Please tell Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u309	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u310	Dear Maria Sergiyevna, I think she's presented us with why we need this bill. The Voice faction fully supports it. It's really a Euro-Integration Bill, it's really been developed for a long time not only in our great parliament, but also in the Ministry of Economics and Trade, and in the agricultural sphere, when it was. So, of course, we'll support him. And last of all, colleagues, you know, very rarely do we have laws that send a position on a single page that only says that they support them, they ask you to accept it as quickly as possible. So, of course, this bill has to be adopted today, and hopefully even by a constitutional majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u311	My love, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u312	Congratulations, fellows! Yes, Mary presented the bill very well. It is about the health of Ukrainians, a very Euro-integration law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u313	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u314	Please give it to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u315	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u316	Mr President, honourable colleagues, this bill brings our legislation, European Union legislation on measures that apply to materials and objects that contact food, and we introduce the European Parliament and Council rules into national legislation. This issue is now partially settled in Ukraine, but not really taken into account for the time being a large number of requirements that contain European legislation. The draft law establishes a series of requirements for materials and objects that contact food products, such as labelling requirements, declaration of conformity and requirements for the monitoring of materials and such items. We also standardize the position of manufacturing practices in the production of materials and objects that are in contact with food products and the state control and responsibility of market operators. "European Solidarity" necessarily supports and urges the entire House to unite and support this bill. But only in the first reading, because certain adjustments to the second must be made. For example, since the aim of the bill is to implement national legislation with the provisions of EU acts, for example, instead of the procedure for the national registration of substances and processes used in the production of materials and objects that deal with food products, it is appropriate to provide for a procedure, an assessment of the safety and establishment of lists of such objects, which will at the same time meet the requirements of EU Regulation No 1935/2004. That is why, colleagues, we unite, we vote in favour of this dutiful bill. Thank you, authors. Thank you, committee. Thank you to all who have been involved in his work. But for the second reading, let's make it almost perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u317	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u318	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to your colleague after the faction of Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u319	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u320	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we can go into history as a parliament that will eventually end the issue of quality and safety of production. Today, we clearly understand that the health of the nation and the health of everyone depends primarily on ecology and quality food. And food, as well as its packaging as symbiosis today, is a vital part of health, well, of course, quality and safety. My colleagues, to our great conviction, we need to adopt an appropriate law that introduces circulation, branding, and it completely regulates the substances that are going to happen, let's say, make up a package. Today we don't even have colleagues in Ukraine, a lab that can tell us whether it's quality, for example, that film that's wrapped in cheese in our store. We need to understand clearly what products are in contact today, what substance is in contact with the products we use. It's a Euro-Integration Law, there are at least three regulations of the European Union and the Association Agreement that we signed. Colleagues, let's support this bill in the first reading. Let us thank the authors. I know that this author is passing laws that are appropriate for baby food and also for packing directly, which contact children's milk and baby mixes. So let us support and move in the direction of health, primarily the health of everyone and the health of the nation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u321	Thank you. Motive is the Royal. After that, Ruddick, let's move on to. A kiss? Three minutes, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u322	Dear colleagues, you're listening and you're doing wonders. Well, instead of supporting our national producer today to support our economy today, and you, you know, dance everything: that's European integration, that's European law. Well, let's face it, well, it's a purely lobbyist bill that's clearly going to stand up for a license for one company, it's just a monopoly on the packaging market. Well, let's be honest with each other somehow, not covering up all our cause areas with a strategy of moving to Europe. Our job today is to protect our Ukrainian manufacturer. And that's why we're not voting for this lobbyist bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u323	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u324	Dear colleagues, to say that I am shocked by what I have just heard from the rostrum is nothing to say. Of course, it's a necessary bill, and you'll see it now by pressing the green buttons. I'm sure there'll be an absolute majority of them in this room. The only thing I'd like to point out to you is that the strange situation, when a bill is needed, is that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is finding a huge number of observations. Well, it's obvious that the product is as important as the package that covers it, because it's transportation, it's storage, it's implementation. What else can I say? We vote yes, in general, and we forget about this problem for many years. Our consumer will also use this quality safe package that God will provide, preserve his life and health. The MP's Party for the Future is urging a colleague to vote in favour, definitely.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u325	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u326	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, today is really the day of ecology in this House of Parliament. And I'm also glad to be a member of the environmental committee. You and I have adopted a law on the circulation of plastic packets of restrictions, and you and I have adopted a law on drug use. Now, on the first reading, we're going to adopt a bill on actually quality, improvement of the food package. I think this will also be important for the health of our nation, especially for the health of our young people. Because if young people have better nutrition in a better package, the future of our Ukrainian nation will be better and healthier. Thank you, everyone. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-01-m0.u327	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Materials and Objects that Contact Food (register No. 4568). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:56:19]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Bill 4564 can we vote without discussion? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of draft Law registration number 4564. Please support and vote. [[14:56:54]] For 315 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. And another question is the bill's registration number 3901. It's a second reading. I don't know, nobody insists on the papers, do I? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act (Registration No. 3901). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:57:45]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
