ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good day, distinguished representatives of the media, the clergy, representatives of diplomatic missions! I invite you to the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. Welcome to the President. [[Applause]] [[Broadcasting video recording of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine]] It is the honor of the soldiers to bring the Constitution of Ukraine to the Assembly Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everybody, please get up. [[Ukraine’s Spiritual Anthem "Praying for Ukraine"]] Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the following are taking part: President of Ukraine Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski; National Deputies of Ukraine on the ninth and previous appeals; Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on previous appeals; Presidents of Ukraine Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko, Peter Alexiyovitch Prashenko; Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; Chiefs of the Judicial Branch of the Council of National Security and Defence; Judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine; Chief Justice of the Supreme Court; Presences of the Supreme Council elected by the Supreme Council; Appoints and agrees to take office; Secretaries of the Council of the Council of National Security and Defence; Heads of the Regional Councils of the Supreme Court; President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National MPs, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine I declare open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u2	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, representatives of the government, the Office of the President, the diplomatic corps, your blessings, Your Honorary Judges, Your Honorary Journalists, Guests of the Communion Meeting! Dear citizens of Ukraine! A quarter of a century ago on this very day, this very hall was born with a very important symbol, a symbol of our history, our independence, and our state. And I sincerely welcome all of us with this great special double holiday, with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the 25th anniversary of its adoption. [[Applause]] You know, on such a unique sign date, I really wanted to say something not only, but something important to do. To do something more than typical anniversary stamps and coins with the inscription "Ukrainian Constitution 25." Before I arrived here, I traditionally placed flowers, just as I did every year, in the monument to Philip Orlik, the German of the Zaporozky Army and the author of the famous 1710 Constitution, which is called the first written Constitution of Europe. The vast majority of us know about it, have heard, read, or have studied. And at the same time, the vast majority of us have never seen her experience, seen part of her history, or inheritance. Moreover, in 311 years the Constitution of Philip the Eagle had never been home, in the Fatherland. And it's wrong, it's unfair, and it needs to be fixed. About this way you can briefly describe a dialogue that we have been conducting for several months with the authorities of Sweden in the National Archives, which is preserved by the Constitution of Philip Orlik. And today we can finally share very good news. First. The National Archives of Sweden gave Ukraine three copies of the Constitution of Philip Orlik. One is already displayed in the lobby of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the morning. The second one will be in the President's Office. The third is in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, after it has been updated and restarted. And the second news. By the 30th anniversary of our independence, for the first time in 311 years, Ukraine will have the original of the Constitution of Philip Orlik. [[Applause]] Along with Bulava, Philip Orlik and John Mazepa will be able to see all of them willingly in the Council of Sofia. [[Applause]] The canvas of our history has a thousand years and so many missing pieces of puzzles. We return these parts to the Ukrainians, we return Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] From this high rostrum, I want to thank our Swiss partners once again. In the last month, taking into account Euro-2020, Sweden has already shown for the second time that it is our great friend. And we believe that tomorrow she will show us how much she loves Ukraine. [[Applause]] In fact, I was joking, I wish everyone success tomorrow, and let the stronger win. But who's stronger than you and I know? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! 25 years ago, there was a really historic event, and its significance is so huge that even a light puff in the estimates looks appropriate, I think, and organic. The adoption of the Constitution is called the last chord in the symphony of state-building, the Bible of legal orders for all Ukrainians, the legal shield and the armor for human rights and freedoms, and the citizen, the country's visiting card and the nation, which answers the question of who we are, where we come from, what we want, how we want to live and where we want to go. But I think the best assessment of the Constitution is given by the Constitution itself. The first word that starts with her first article, "Ukraine," and that's all said. Her second article begins with the word sovereignty. And the third is the word "man". And that's even more said. Yes, you know, compared to the age - old constitutions of many nations, our Basic Law is very young or even young. But the things I said above, and the assessment of the international community, which called our Constitution really one of the most democratic, its humane concentration (a third of the articles on rights and freedoms of man and citizen) -- all of this tells us that our really young Constitution, at the same time, is mature and wise. And that's perfectly logical, because 25 years is just a new period in which the tradition of the constitutional process of Ukraine precedes. More than a thousand years of Russian Truth, 367 years of March article by Bogdan Hmelnick, more than a century of the Constitution of the United Nations. And the Constitution of Philip Orlik, mentioned today. Our duty is to multiply these important traditions, protecting the modern Constitution, knowing how difficult it has been to adopt it. Today, I would like to thank the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the second call, which, in spite of the political opposition, 15 different drafts of the Constitution, 6 thousand amendments before the second reading and a continuous session of more than 24 hours have found strength and have achieved unity in order to adopt the long-awaited Constitution of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Applause]] To finally understand its meaning, just for a moment, let's imagine that in 96 this wouldn't happen. And we still live with you under the Soviet Constitution, called the Ukrainian RSR, we have conditional freedom of speech, thought, movement, religion, political choice, private property rights, business opportunities and many more. Dear citizens, on June 28, 96, the birth of the Constitution of Ukraine marked a number of other very important things. The Ukrainian language was given the status of a single national language, and the bracelet was the status of our national currency. [[Applause]] At the highest legislative level, state symbols were anchored: the blue and yellow flag, the trident and the hymn: Ukraine has not yet died. [[Applause]] And all these years, there's only one question that's not closed: the only state symbol that's explicitly foreseen by the Constitution of Ukraine that still doesn't exist is the Great Herb of Ukraine. During these years, there have indeed been many different contests, arguments, quarrels, different thoughts, different visions. It's okay, it's democracy. And I think that in the 30th year of Independence and the 25th year of our Constitution, we should finally put a dot on this. [[Applause]] Therefore, in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft bill on the Great State Herb of Ukraine, and I define it as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And he will report on the bill during his plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. [[Applause]] And I want to thank all the deputies. I know, of many parties, factions all involved in this process, it's very important, and it's also very important for systemic work and great work, and thank you once again to MPs for the second call. And finally, I want to address the Ukrainian national MPs, the government officials and all of our important civil servants, regardless of rank, regardless of status. After the first words of the three articles of our Constitution that you have heard about, the following articles of the Basic Law begin with the following words: State, earth, social life, rights and freedoms, citizens, children, environmental security, legal order, protection of the country, state language and symbols, voting rights, national will. And very far after that, almost in the end, the words are mentioned for the first time: "The President of Ukraine, the National Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers." The Constitution clearly defines priorities, all that much higher than all of us, our interests and our ambitions, all that we have to protect and provide, all that we have to serve, most of it today. Perhaps you have remembered not all but three main things — Ukraine, sovereignty, man. With the celebration of all of us, with the Day of the Constitution of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to welcome you all to the festival! Twenty-five years ago, these walls had a historic event without exaggeration. It's not just an important component of Ukrainian government, it's actually divided our history by before and after. "There's a Constitution!" – that was the first words spoken in this room after the adoption of the Basic Law of our country. Just one sentence that had a colossal effect on the life of a multimillion - dollar nation. The approval of the Basic Law has made our independence legitimate in the eyes of the whole world. We have made clear what our country stands for and what our nation is fighting for, which principles are at the heart of it. The adoption of the Constitution was the culmination of a long process. This led to years of hard work around the clock by dozens of experts who gradually created one of Europe’s best constitutions. The way to getting the basic law was unforgivable, sometimes we can even speak thorny. It was six years of preparation, more than 2,000 proposals and almost an age of uninterrupted heated debate in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And all this was done just to see the Omrian on the board: 315 for it, the decision was made. Without the joint efforts of the Supreme Council of the Second Council, President Kuchma and Ukrainian society, all of this would not have happened. And it only convinces us that when we have consensus, we can fight together and succeed in behalf of our nation. When we delve into the endless determination of relationships and the unconstructive struggle of political positions, we lose our time to develop a state. The adoption of the Constitution has been a concrete exercise of the right of our people to self-determination, expression of their will to develop and strengthen a democratic and legal state. The document established the legal foundations of the country, its sovereignty and territorial integrity, the fundamental rights and freedoms of a Ukrainian citizen. Today, 25 years later, we can firmly say, in our Constitution, the rights that we have fought as a nation for many years, the values that we cherish as a Ukrainian society. The approval of the Basic Law was the final conclusion of our long - standing national creation. History testifies that the constitutional traditions of Ukraine have been taken since 1710, when the first but very important act — the Constitution of Philip Orlik, a document in which ideas of distribution of power and principles for building a country were established. The Universities of the Central Council of the United Nations and the Constitution of the United Nations, as well as the Constitutional Acts of the United Nations, were important achievements in the development of Ukrainian statehood. All of them merely reaffirm the desire of the people of Ukraine to live in a free, sovereign and legal state. Above all, it is a powerful demonstration of political will for the government process that has always accompanied the Ukrainian nation. The jubilee of the Constitution is also a good opportunity to rethink the role of the Ukrainian Parliament. From the coin of declaration of independence, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been, is and remains, the site of the search for balance and the achievement of compromise, the compromise on matters of vital political decisions in our country. In times of serious challenges facing Ukraine at various times, it was Parliament that played a key role in promoting the interests of the state and society. The Supreme Council of Ukraine responded quickly and always took an exclusive position in the interests of Ukrainian society and people. And that's always the way it's supposed to be. However, it would be wrong to say that the constitutional process ended with the adoption of the Basic Law. It lasts as long as there is a state and a society develops. Since the adoption of the Constitution, several amendments have been made to its text. This process is taking place today in the walls of the Supreme Council as well. The modern stage of constitutional modernization of Ukraine is characterized by the deepening of the rule of law, the improvement of the existing system of government, and the development of local self-government and the territorial system. In 2019 our strategic aspirations and aspirations for the European Union and NATO were made very important changes to the Constitution. In the context of annexation and occupation of a part of the territory of Ukraine, it is an overwhelming task to extend the Basic Law to the entire territory of our country, to ensure its integrity and integrity within existing internationally recognized borders, to deepen the constitutional guarantees of the territorial system of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The development of local self - government is also an integral part of the constitutional modernization of Ukraine. The decentralization reform has not yet been completed. In order to bring it to a logical conclusion and to fully implement it, we will need to make changes to the Constitution. It will not be a simple process, but a historical process, but it will allow local authorities to gain both more authority and more responsibility for the development of their regions. At the same time, everyone should remember that changes to the Constitution should be as balanced, careful and thoughtful as possible, because any, even a small mistake can lead to global consequences, sometimes catastrophic. The issue of improving and modernizing the Constitution remains before Parliament, but all of this will depend solely on our work with you. Parliament itself is a model of Ukrainian society that represents and represents our diverse country. And if we want the rapid development of the state, we have here, in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a desire for political consensus. And not only do you want to do it, but you also want to do it. Moreover, in this calling, we have repeatedly demonstrated our ability to unite around important things for the State, putting aside political slogans and policies in general. But I'd like to finish my speech on another one. The adoption of the Constitution 25 years ago gave us a road map towards the democratic development of the state. The basic Law granted and upheld our rights and freedoms. At the same time, we should not forget our constitutional obligations; they are also enshrined in the Constitution of our State. Their very respect for the Constitution will be the greatest expression of respect, for this principle is starting to work out for each of us, because the law is one for all. If we do not adhere to these values, it will no longer be Ukraine, more faithfully, it will no longer be Ukraine. Because our earth is inseparable from freedom. Democracy, the rule of law and humanity. So let the Constitution always serve as a guide for the Ukrainian authorities to work for the interests of the country for the Ukrainian people, its future and our state -- sovereign, independent and independent. With a holiday! With Constitution Day!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u5	The second president of Ukraine, co-chair of the Constitutional Commission for the preparation of the Constitution of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u6	I haven't been here in a while. Dear Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the National Deputies, the Holy Fathers! I'm really particularly pleased to see in this Hall of Deputies the second vocation, which, despite all the political difficulties, has adopted the Constitution, the silver Jubilee of which we celebrate with you today. Thank you. [[Applause]] For today is indeed a festival for us, a festival, a memorable day. For more than 10 years, I've been addressing this room as President, but I've never seen a real parliamentary majority before me, the more the majority of us today are willing to work, work together, and the more important thing is to take responsibility. It was not possible to imagine that at that time. The last time I spoke from this rostrum was 16 years ago, on December 8, 2004, you know what question, by the way, is the constitutional question. True, the performance was not solemn, but more dramatic. For young deputies, and such a vast majority in this room, a quarter of a century is a story. Our Constitution really already has a history. And, as it turns out, there are parallel memories in history. I'll stop at a certain point. It has often been heard that the Constitution can and should have been adopted much earlier. It's hard not to agree with that. But it turned out that Ukraine closed the constitutional parade among the post - Soviet republics, closing. When I became President, I did my best to adopt the new Constitution as soon as possible, because the Soviet Constitution, although being drafted, could not help to build a sovereign, legal, social and market state. Even during the fifth year of independence, discussions with such important issues as language, flag, coat of arms were extremely acute. Parliament was then very polarized and not only politically but also ideologically, so the Constitution became a powerful example of compromise. Its acceptance was highly appreciated in Ukrainian society and in the international community. Even the scrupulous Venice Commission recognized it as one of the most perfect in Europe. From today's point of view, from a 25-year-old distance, I can firmly state that the 96-year Constitution has become an engine for overcoming crisis and reform. First, the constitutional treaty, and then the Constitution itself, made it possible to create an effective vertical of executive power, which provided a solution to the deep crisis and later to a high economic growth. At that time, some politicians called it the supremacy of power. But the success of the crisis and the growth of the economy today is linked to the improvement in the efficiency of executive power. I would like to stress in particular the importance of the President's mandate to issue legislative decrees on economic issues for three years. I have signed over 400 decrees with one goal: to solve economic problems quickly and effectively. The timing confirmed this was timely and effective decisions. Some 90 percent of the decrees were later transformed into laws. Such authorizations were needed primarily during the transition period from the old system to the new one. At the beginning of my second chamber, it was possible to shift powers and responsibilities towards parliament, until the change of the presidential-parliamentary model to the parliamentary-presidential model. This was followed by the introduction of polytreforms and changes to the Constitution, which were finally adopted in December 2004. I never considered the Constitution an ideal for all time in 96. It had gaps. Take at least one. On a constitutional night, the rights of the people as the sole source of authority were brought to the advisory body of the vote. Meanwhile, the legislative priority of the results of the national referendums is an important principle of democracy. That is why the issue of the April 2000 referendum, 20 years later, remains a topic of political and social debate. Unfortunately, in 2004, not all the political forces and the MPs supported my proposals, but I give them what they deserve. It was they who defended the polytreform in 2010 against the constitutional rematch of Yanukovic. And later, in February 14, the Constitution of 2004 played a positive role in solving the political crisis and restoring constitutional justice. I'm not saying this to make someone laugh, but to commend myself, on the contrary, I would like to warn against unthinkable conjunctural demarches in relation to the Constitution with severe social and political consequences. The events of the last 16 years only added confidence that the responsibility of the parliamentary majority for the formation and operation of the government should be absolute priority. Parliament, together with the government, must be part of a team of a ship called Ukraine. Finally, the most important thing is to uphold the Constitution. We have much more problems in this queen than her imperfections. It is enough to mention how from the submission of a group of regional deputies, the Constitutional Court voted in favour of repealing the political and constitutional changes. This has indeed taken place contrary to the Constitution itself, which provides for the possibility of modifying its text only by means of a constitutional majority vote. But the Constitutional Court itself is sub-constitutional, not super-constitutional. Respectable Society! The silver Jubilee of the Constitution gives us today a reason not only for memories but also for a view of the future. A quarter of a century of constitutional creation has taught us many important lessons. I want to emphasize one of them. The Constitution must protect society and citizens. But there are times when society and citizens have to protect the Constitution. We need to keep this in mind. This does not mean that the Constitution should be untouchable. It needs to develop, to improve. It can and needs to be changed in time. But this must be done exclusively in the interests of the Ukrainian people. And I want there to always be a solid monolithic majority in this room, but not party, but state. That there should be unanimity when it comes to protecting the national interests of Ukraine, the vital needs of our people and our Constitution. Welcome back to the festival! I sincerely wish the Ukrainian people and all of us constitutional wisdom, constitutional rights, and, of course, constitutional obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u7	The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the second and fifth convocations, co-chair of the Constitutional Commission on the preparation of the Constitution of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u8	Dear President! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, the participants in the meetings! Dear compatriots! I warmly welcome you to today's day and the day of the Constitution! Congratulations both from myself and from the members of the Association of former deputies who have entrusted me with the task of addressing you. And though they were, in fact, the heroic past parliament forgot to mention that they were the creators of the state, but they had every right to do so. I think this inadequacy will be rectified. The Constitution is the heart of the state's legal system. And of course everyone should know it, starting with the President and finishing up as a schoolboy. She also needs to be taught in school, to be included in those who understand the law and the constitutional standards, and to go to school and explain how to honor the Basic Law, how to observe it, and what it entails for society. This means having appropriate textbooks, documents that can be referred to by both the teacher and the one who comes to the meetings with the young, and so on. Now, I'm joining an association of former MPs and I'm looking at this big film called "The History of Parliamentarianism in Ukraine." I've never seen such an expensive book published with us, and obviously it's the same content as it is, it's a really interesting document. I read that there was a second vocation when the Constitution was approved. And there I learned that on June 19th, Parliament's work on the Constitution was blocked, and the Council of Regions at the President, and the PNB asked Leonid Danilovich to issue a decree to hold a referendum. I know it wasn't like that. I am taking up the transcript, 120 pages of June 19, where the discussion on the procedure for consideration in the second reading of the draft Constitution was carried over to the second day so that committees and factions would consider the procedures that were discussed, and on Friday, a productive work on the text of the Constitution began. Before the referendum was passed on. I'll tell you what. Whether 49 articles of the Constitution were considered in full before the referendum was announced, almost one third of the entire document. I'm not in the pretense of Leonid Danilovich in this case. The thing is, he and all of us, and most of the deputies of that call, are the outposts of the administrative system. They understood that in front of there was a lump, someone said the hetman was and so on, forgetting that the system of power that we had before and, in fact, almost today, was still in place by Khan Bati. So we need to change it. And the Declaration of State Sovereignty approved how to change. And this declaration was the basis of a popular referendum in the 91st year. Therefore, when we speak of the Constitution, we must bear in mind that its standards are protected by the will of the entire people, by the true referendum, and with the same responsibility we must treat this document. So, I hope that the trailer I mentioned will be corrected, but that there was an editorial college headed by a famous academic, a historian, in this room, so I hope that he too reads what was signed and needs to be corrected because people need to be told the truth. What is the position of the Constitution in a democratic state? This is how we see the formula for democracy, because the democratic state is the first article of the Basic Law. So the formula of democracy is the people, the Constitution, the authorities. If such a triad is and is at the heart of the Constitution, approved by the people, then the authorities will have the honour of having before the Constitution and will do as enshrined in the Constitution, and it is necessary to ensure an appropriate system of authority. How are we today? The people, the authorities, and then the Constitution, which can be changed, which can be replaced, processed and so on. Open up, at the last scientific and practical conference, we looked at the new text of the updated Constitution, and somehow I thought that the biggest changes to the Constitution had been made in the section "President." Why is this being done? I know that no European President cares as much about the change in the Constitution as it has done in us. Why? Because we're all out of this administrative system, where we need someone to tell us how to do it and everything else. Either way, it's good for the state or it's not good for society -- not that. We have to ensure democracy really. And democracy will be when everyone -- everyone on the spot -- becomes a citizen and is responsible for their political decisions. If he doesn't expect someone to tell him from the TV screen or say that he's beautiful or beautiful, and that's something he promised good, and this Greek woman brought home 50 bracelets or something. And he will take responsibility for whom he chooses, for he will live on whether his family will live on whoever is in power today at the local level, on a higher, medium level, in the Supreme Council, or who will be president. It's fundamentally important. This means a change of power. I'm from the time and the adoption of the Constitution, and then I scream about it for how many years, and it's supposed to be. It's like I'm saying something wrong with society that needs to be done by the state. And look, this is an organized government in Scandinavian countries. There everyone answers, he understands he's a citizen, either in France or in Poland or something. Why we do not see that authority today. More loyally, the authorities are alienated from the people. That's a fact. If we don't believe it, it's here that we can talk, and today it's as if in a complementary tone that we want to talk about, because really a holiday, everyone understands well, at least those who are here. Are these discussions that have been going on and on and on, or are they affecting people? Do they see a positive effect on themselves? I sometimes remember this brief phrase of the great poet Tamara Severnuk: "And we, as we are plagued by the sea, speak, speak, and do not burn our souls with shame, as the dead look upon us." And from the first one, the second one, there are no more MPs. They made sure that the State was good, prosperous, and successful. Why isn't that? I answer that question because there is a constant violation of the Constitution. And it has to be acknowledged. [[Applause]] This needs to be corrected. We want to go to Europe. What Europe doesn't want is another matter, but we want to go to Europe. Let us do the same system of power as in Europe. Let's make self-governance real, not sketchy, funky. What self-government can be like when today in my village, four villages enter one, as it were. But not in the congregation, for we have a great congregation, O Lord. And the appointed mayor, who was never in my village, doesn't know people or their problems, and doesn't want to know them because he's assigned. And the point is that he must, the people on the ground, the public authority must be chosen by the people. And from the way it works, how the fiscal and tax systems are formed, people will know that they are responsible for their welfare. And they will not flee from Ukraine, as we observe today. It is a great tribulation and woe, what haunts people today, it is true. We can't survive, we have social problems, we have a social state under the Constitution of Ukraine, and people can't survive today because of the bulk of responsibility, the bulk of their debt in advance, given more than their ability. It's not normal, it needs to be corrected. Or let's take it. We're constantly being pushed out of Europe especially, and from the United States, you have corruption, fight corruption. And we've already created the organs that look at this. I'm talking to Vladimir Alexanderovich. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, think, look, the environment of corruption, the organizers of corruption are the very structures of the state. [[Applause]] And to overcome them, the President can today, along with the law enforcement authorities, if they are responsible, as they say in this case, in six months, bring order. And the country will change completely, otherwise people will look at power at all, it won't be a stranger to them as it is today. It's too bad to talk about it. But a wise man once said that when celebrating a festival, attention should be paid to correcting faults. Here, I think these flaws are, you can fix them. I have made many references to this subject. There's a draft amendment to a valid constitution, which is now seven years old, it's published, it's submitted to the previous parliament for consideration, it's not read there, because it's hard to read, in principle. And he foresees the changes that will bring about Ukraine, which will enable it to strengthen its relationship with the authorities. And that will be the democratic link that society needs today if we want Ukraine to be successful. And in closing, the request. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, I've forgotten this signal. In conclusion, I ask everyone in attendance an important question. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished MPs of today's vocation, Ukrainian land cannot be transformed into goods, it will be the end for Ukraine, have it in mind. [[Applause]] With a feast of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u9	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u10	Dear Mr. President of Ukraine! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen of the Presidents of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! 25 years ago, on June 28, 1996, the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted in this room. This became one of the events that forever changed Ukraine, began the new history of our nation, and the Constitution became the basis on which we began to build our own democratic and sovereign Ukraine. Of course, there were many difficulties on this journey. We have a weapon in our hands to protect independence, sovereignty, our territorial integrity, to create an entirely new economic and social policy, to defend democratic principles and the principles of our state. Unfortunately, challenges and threats continue to confront us today, but the fundamental principles defined by the Constitution of Ukraine help us to maintain the irreversible course of an independent sovereign democratic European state. Man, his life and health, his honor and dignity, his integrity, his security are recognized in Ukraine as the highest value. It is up to all of us to have the role and strength of those words. Each of us today is responsible for what Ukraine will be like in the future. The very responsibility for the ancestors and future generations of Ukrainians is a unifying factor for all of us, as is the confidence that Ukraine will be a prosperous and happy state of peace. I sincerely welcome Ukraine and the Ukrainians to the Day of the Constitution. May God protect all of us, our nation. Thank you. With a holiday! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u11	Heroic glory! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this is a formal meeting, but the rules are still in effect. The People's Second Appeal of Ukraine, a member of the Constitutional Commission, is invited to the floor by the head of the Working Group for the preparation of the second chapter of the Constitution, "The Rights, Freedoms and Duties of Man and Citizen", a doctor of legal science, Professor Vladimir Grigorovich Butkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u12	Dear Mr. President of Ukraine! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National MPs of all calls, distinguished present at a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I took this book that was given to me today, and it says "The Jubilee Edition," and I looked at two words "The Jubilee" and "The Holy One." I mean, it's not always been that way in history. This Jubilee began, and all the European nations lent it to the ancient Jews. So they had a Jubilee for the people. And for the ruler it was a time when he could report to the people. And he must tell the people what he did during his reign. In this situation, where there were ancient Jews, they were fine. Because the ruler simply could not fail to fulfill their obligation to everyone to restore the freedom they had before his rule, and he could not repay them. Unfortunately, it's not what Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich was talking about, the land and the property. So it passed, and it was a festival for some, and for others it was an audition. Until Pope Paul II declared it a festival in 1470, he repents of his sins, and if you do not repent of your sins, that is how it will be. He also set 25 years, as we celebrate today, and so did we. Today we are celebrating, not reporting to the people, and not restoring his right to him. But I'll try to get back to the elements of the report. When we were working on a draft of the Constitution of Ukraine, which I had to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take it into consideration, we had seven tasks to solve. Develop the legal positions of the Constitution at the level of world standards. To ensure that these provisions of the Constitution correspond as much as possible to traditions and customs that have historically been established in Ukrainian law. In all constitutional situations, the task of upholding the rule of law is out of the question. The Constitution should clearly and clearly establish the basic principles of the peoples of the world. The Constitution must determine the fundamental rights and freedoms of a person in Ukraine. The task of the Constitution should not be conflict, but an authoritative definition of the main branches of authority only to them of their own legal status. The Constitution of an independent Ukraine is designed to improve the territorial organization of the people. After each of these tasks, they developed their own, quite difficult, problems. For example, it was easier for us to develop legal positions at the level of world standards, but we have stumbled upon the problem of maximizing the relevance of the new Constitution to the historical traditions and customs of Ukrainian law. The thing is, we didn't even have experts and consultants on these issues. What is read in our colleges as a history of Ukrainian law is not so, is a general history with a chronological list of the names of Ukrainian legal acts and the year of their adoption, sometimes of individual quotations from them. Our history of law has its thousand - year tradition and still lives in the nation, which means it cannot be ignored. Even the same Jubilee was celebrated differently than in the West. Here the main action took place in Wiche, which was called by loud bells. We had a pretty tough regulation of listening to the prince's report, but more democratic standards for the people. Russian chronicles refer to about ten locations of such Viche and much more than in the Western analogies of the solution to the report. If the prince was telling the people the truth, they usually made peace with him, and if he was lying, there were several options: they could have expelled Viche, they could have discussed his case without him, they often deprived him of his belongings, replaced him with another prince, or given the prince or his fighter to the enemy. The declaration of the rule of law was very urgent to us. But the problem is that even our experienced lawyers understood it as the rule of law. It was often the sin of law-abiding practitioners, who cared little about the quality of the law, which was the key to applying it. In fact, the task was also complicated by the circulation in the country of hundreds of thousands of legal acts with the complete confusion of objects and objects of legal regulation between them. Starting with the law and completing international obligations that relied on Ukraine as a party to international treaties, we had more than 250,000 such acts. Our system itself has been stagnant. This was not just about proclaiming the rule of law, but about creating normal conditions for upholding that principle in legislation. In the law systems developed by the rule of law, 70-75 per cent of the permit, 15-20 per cent of the commitment rate, 5-10 per cent of the ban. Ukrainian law was then in the stagnation stage. More than 80 percent were bans, or obligations, and only 20 percent were allowed. In response to this constant campaign of protest, rallying, demonstrations, playgrounds, and so forth. But despite all of this, I think we've managed to fix the basic legal framework in the state. More could have been done if those responsible for upholding the Constitution themselves were conscientiously following it. I would like to conclude by saying that in recent times our media have unfortunately been overcrowded by accusations of violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. The opposition accuses the President and the majority, the last is opposition, and everyone curses oligarchs and corruption together, and the last one, like that cat, eats and eats. Journalists quickly twist their necks, making bets on one another, and on the other. And all of this together does not promote peace in society, does not unite us around our Constitution, does not replace peaceful reasonableness with emotional irritation and screaming. This does not contribute to the establishment of a Constitution that we have not yet learned to read and understand correctly. We run through it as water meters run through the water. We have casual thinking, and it is a cancer for the Basic Law of the State. We cannot understand that the Constitution is a complex document of systematic regulations. We mix the text with the article, the article with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u15	Thank you. The Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Ludmila Leontievna Denisova, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the presidents, national deputies, distinguished guests! It is an honor for me to address you today. Human life as the highest value, freedom and democracy, national unity and the rule of law have been the foundation of the Constitution of Ukraine. The establishment and security of human rights and freedoms was proclaimed a major responsibility of the State. This was confirmed by the establishment of the Institute of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. The Ukrainian Parliament has created a strong and independent model of parliamentary control to protect rights, ensure their observance, promote renewal, using an effective mechanism to influence the formation and implementation of public policy. The Ombudsman has become a mediator between Parliament and a human being to protect rights from violations by anyone. The authorised person shall be entitled to be examined in accordance with the Constitution and the criticism of any act of law and shall be brought before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine accordingly. The Basic Law made us equal in rights, upheld the principle of respect for the dignity and value of the human personality. People, regardless of any natural signs, have the right to live in peace and to preserve their individuality. The Constitution requires equal treatment of one another. Because tolerance is not only an important principle, but also a prerequisite for the socio-economic development of the country. The Constitution obliges the authorities to develop and ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and to combat intolerance by establishing and implementing fair and impartial legislation. The constitutional right of a person to address or personally to the authorities of the State, local self - government to obtain information allows for the realization of the right to health, education, social security and other rights. The right to information is particularly important under quarantine conditions. 35 percent of citizens who have applied for an authorized violation of the right. State authorities and local governments are obliged to ensure the realization of this constitutional right. In caring for decent living conditions, the State must ensure adequate social protection and well - being for everyone. Nearly a third of reports of violations of social and economic rights to receive social and pension benefits, health care, and the payment of work show that the Constitution does not fully provide the guarantee. The preparation of the draft State Budget Act requires a thorough approach to ensuring the implementation of data on constitutional safeguards and, above all, the most vulnerable population groups. We're tracking a significant increase in the number of messages authorized to violate citizens' rights. In 2019 it was 34,000, in 2020 it was over 48.5,000, now it is over 27,000. This confirms both the increase in the level of trust in the institution, since we have renewed the rights of 92 percent of applicants and the denial of human rights by authorities and other entities. This trend is disturbing. Article 65 of the Constitution obliges citizens to protect the homeland, its independence, and its territorial integrity. And at present, this constitutional obligation is more relevant than ever. The armed aggression of the Russian Federation and the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, have caused much of Donbas to disrupt Ukraine’s territorial integrity and affect its independence. Ukrainian military personnel honorably carry out their duties by risking their lives every day. In seven years, thousands of our defenders were killed, and we owe each of those who have fallen for our Fatherland. Regrettably, the State cannot guarantee today the observance of constitutional rights and freedoms in occupied territories. Our compatriots are forced to survive by the laws of the natural selection of the aggressor state, which eradicates not only Ukrainian but also human dignity. 405 Ukrainian citizens, 44 of whom are soldiers and 30 women, are in concentration camps and catastrophes of the Russian Federation and in occupied areas. We know everyone’s name. The invader has taken away their right to freedom, personal integrity, and legal protection. He is unable to deprive our fellow countrymen of freedom of thought and belief, the hope of returning to Ukraine. In line with the Government's highest priority in establishing peace, restoring Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, it is our joint responsibility to ensure that Ukraine acts for every human being in the territory of our country. 25 years ago, with the adoption of the Basic Law, a course was chosen to build a strong progressive democracy in Ukraine, where the right of every citizen is guaranteed and protected. I am confident that thanks to the productive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the active political position of the President of Ukraine, and the proper exercise of all the authorities of our duties, we will be able to restore peace to Ukraine, ensure a decent life and welfare for every citizen. And then the day will come, one day over all the cities of my own Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk regions will be raised by the flag of Ukraine. With the world of the Constitution you! Thank you very much to all who have participated in her creation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-28-m0.u17	Heroim Slava! Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that after the end of the ceremony, I invite everyone to a general photo on the steps before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now for the 25th anniversary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine closed.
