ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u1	Good day again, dear fellows! Please prepare to register, take your seats. In connection with the requirement of 153 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The list of issues of the above-mentioned extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is given to you. Please prepare to register. I remind you, as always, that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left and using the sensor button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:01:36]] There are 166 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, there have been two motions for a break with a replacement for the performance, but this will be a joint speech. Do I get it right? Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u2	Members of the TSC are requested to approach the rostrum. I'm asking you to put the video on the screens. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, we all welcome you! For some years, since 2017, children with disabilities have been genocided in Ukraine. The interim commission of inquiry into child rights violations in Prikarpatha confirmed this once again. We, the national MPs, are representatives of almost every political force in Parliament, members of the TSC, inform you of the results of the visit. The Ivano-Frankiv region is a leader in Ukraine after the abolition of special and sanitary schools, which are taking place to implement the deinstitutionalization strategy. Consider: In just the last two years, six special and two sanatorium schools have been closed in Prikarpata, most of which are located in remote mountain areas. What about the children who were taught there, the local officials were no longer interested. The following commission found that some of the children were forced to go further away from home, even in other areas where, fortunately, special schools are not yet closed. Some learn at home individually, which does not contribute to the specialization of children with disabilities. Officials do not notice that the number of children with special educational needs in the area is increasing each year, which is not covered at all by school age. The same situation with schools was true of Zakarpatta. In Ivano-Frankishka, we faced a shocking incident when the students of a special school for blind people did not get permission to stay at the facility all day long. The distance from home — more than 70 kilometers, visual disturbances and other chronic diseases — is, in their opinion, no argument, all simply required to attend school next to home. How can a blind child learn in a general school? We reiterate our call to the representatives of the cosmopolitans and the government to cancel the 586 Ordinance, to abuse children with disabilities and their parents enough, forcing them to go through a complicated and demeaning procedure to obtain a permit to enter a 24-hour facility. It is only children with disabilities who need to go through this difficult demeaning procedure, and other children do not need it. Mr. Reformers, perhaps it's time to leave children with disabilities in special schools and pay attention to the public schools of boarding schools where, according to recent events, violent violations of children's rights are taking place? It is in these institutions — the survival of the Soviet era and the actual places of deprivation — that children are living and learning as they need to be. They need deinstitutionalization. These are children from low-income families, orphans and children who are deprived of parental care. As our TSC has shown, 228 institutions have 58,000 children, the vast majority of whom — 42 thousand — are constantly living. This figure is one half of the total number of children in institutions, while special education institutions have children who have families and who are the easiest to deinstitutionalize, simply send them home without being able to receive an education. It is far more difficult to deal with the problems of orphans and the poverty of children in the community, and children with disabilities can be struck again in life. I stress again, children in special schools in the vast majority don't need deinstitutionalization, because they're not institutionalized there, and they're being trained there. The experience of other countries in the world shows that inclusion is developing in parallel — that is, special schools are becoming centers around which an inclusive environment is formed, and disabled people have the ability to obtain various social services. But in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, special schools are closing down, and instead they are opening up to a new type of facility -- a center of social support for children and families -- and in fact a shelter for children under difficult living conditions, which has absorbed the worst practices of places of non-freedom. Before that, you could have seen this establishment. Moreover, at the same time as the establishment of this facility, a shell with a reference to this deinstitutionalization strategy has decided to eliminate this modern centre of social support for children and families of the Warm House in the Valley, because there is no money and there is no need to save, and the bad institution has left it. The fate of the children was no longer a concern, and there we found the overwhelming fact of the divorce of the brothers who lived in the Warm House. So one of them just in the middle of the school year was transferred to another boarding school tens of miles away, and with him six other orphans, it's like freeing places for other children. Thanks to the work of the TSC, the children were able to return. I want to thank the head of the government, who has fulfilled his promise and brought to the fore the draft decision to cancel the decision to exterminate the Warm House. This decision is supported by a standing commission, and now the word behind the troupe deputies. It should be noted that the reform of institutions is taking place in conditions of turbulence that have resulted in decentralization in territorial communities. Some of them did not even create children’s services, and those who created them did not make it to the state. Because of the coordination of their work, the Ministry of Health has failed to develop a standard position for the service of children in the field of tergroms, without dividing the levels of authority between them and the RDA in the newly created areas. We call on the officials of Minnesota and other regions to take a close look at the conclusions of the TSC and the consequences of the visit to the Attitude and avoid making mistakes. Remember that every decision you make is the fate of a child, and children with disabilities, orphans and deprived of parental care is not the way to save a district budget. We've only been able to reveal these gruesome facts in two months of our TSC activity, and that's just the beginning. We can only guess what's going on around the country as a whole. We keep working. Dear fellow MPs, I urge you not to stay away from the problems of children with special educational needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please invite the national MPs, get ready for work. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Use of Urgent Measures to Ensure Proper Prevention, Diagnostics, and Treatment of Sick Children for Diabetes (registration No. 4042). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:09:30.]] For 253 Decision taken. No discussion? I bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussing? Three factions. No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u4	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. First of all, I thank all the deputies present in the Hall, the Fatherland factions, the Euro-Solidarity factions, the PRTR factions and the Trust MPs, also those few deputies from the "Serve of the People" and "The Voice" who signed their signatures for this extraordinary meeting. Briefly on this bill. It refers to children with diabetes. Now there are about 10,000 of them all over the country. And if we don't properly diagnose and treat these children, then, as a result, we can get non-functional people with disabilities that the state will sustain for life at its own expense. State and taxpayers. But we can treat them on time, provide them, and receive full - time Ukrainian citizens who will work, pay taxes, make families, and be grateful to our State for caring for them. Now these kids are being treated with an outdated test strip system. And then these test crumbs produce two instead of the necessary 10 or 15 per day. And just so you know, it's 10 to 15 per square inch of skin, cut the skin for each child, it's 300 per month. And if you add insulin injections, it's 500 lacerations of the skin. It's just that none of you can even imagine that this is happening to children. There are more modern methods: pumps, programs, and so on. And it's not worth billions of dollars, it's going to cost these 10,000 children 50-70 million a year. We have made all of these suggestions in this decision and ask all the deputies who are concerned. Ten thousand families and parents will be grateful to each one of you who will vote for this simple and understandable one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u5	The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u6	The Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee on National Health, Medical Care and Medical Insurance at its meeting on November 4, reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Use of Urgent Measures to Ensure Proper Prevention, Diagnostics, and Treatment of Sick Children for Sugar Diabetes. According to the draft ruling, the committee determines that the issue raised by the authors of the legislative initiative is relevant. In support of the overall need for a draft decision, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a revision of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of the draft regulation, which is proposed to finance the measures determined by the regulation on the medical subsidy account for the relevant budget period. In fact, the medical subsidy was cancelled on April 1, 2020, in connection with the termination of article 103-4 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Today, regions receive subsidies according to Government Decree No. 250, which, among other things, provides insulin for diabetics. These measures are planned to be financed in this way by July 1, 2021. The cost of the NHRI’s reimbursement of such drugs is still the result. In view of the above, this paragraph should be put in a different format, since it is not the mechanism itself that is important, namely, the full financing of the security. Therefore, changes are needed in the draft decision that will enable it to be implemented in practice. The Committee proposes that paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of the draft decision be amended as follows: “Financing of preventive measures, diagnostics and treatment of children with diabetes in full proportion to the need”. Please support the committee's proposal and accept the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u7	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u8	I'd like to give Polakov a message.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, once again, thank you very much to all the colleagues on the Medical Committee who supported this bill. And I would like to support it in the hall, because really all of the measures that I've been talking about, and also about ensuring the proper functioning of the prevention system, including screening, health care, security, etc. -- everything that it says needs to be done. I want to say that there were some funding calls during the committee. We've adopted a lot of bills in this room without any financial justification. Billions of dollars were not earmarked for such needs, not for children, but for children with diabetes. I ask everyone to vote in favour of this bill so that we can really resolve this issue. And parents who go to every national MP, especially to majors who come to their districts. There are a whole group of parents with diabetes, and they will be grateful to every MP who is voting for this initiative today. Thank you all, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u10	National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u11	Good afternoon! Mr. Chairman, may I have a word with Jana Zinkevich? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u12	It's Zinkevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u13	Thank you. We will support this bill and we urge everyone to do so. It is extremely important and will allow the prevention of children to avoid diabetes for timely detection. So every year, in the prevention test, there will also be further research on the detection of diabetes in children. Of course, there will also be changes and updates to child diabetes treatment protocols. We also need to understand that in addition to this, children and their families need to be fully provided in time and in full terms, both with sugar measures and with specialized diagnostic strips. So the law is important. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u14	Thank you. The word is given to the people's deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u15	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u16	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u17	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we certainly support this bill today, there is nothing to argue about, and I hope that there will be much more than 300 votes. But, dear fellows, I would like to draw your attention to the following question, which, frankly, made me a little confused and very angry by the great-age MP. On Thursday, the health minister, Mr. Stepanov, stated that he was short 6.5 billion dollars for the purchase of vaccines. Have we already purchased 30 million vaccines and need an additional 10-20 million, not enough money? Today, if I am not mistaken, about 1 million vaccines, along with Covishield and Sinovac, have arrived in Ukraine. And the COVAX Pfizers are almost out of February, and they're probably going somewhere this week. Well, how can you plan the budget of the Ministry of Health during the COVID period, attention when there is no vaccine money after the first quarter? What are they doing now? They now want to review and redistribute the budget of the Ministry of Health within the budget in agreement with the budget committee. Well, are we weak enough to find $6.5 billion in dollars if we don't have enough money to vote for the budget? Today, Ukraine’s budget, along with guarantees of 1.5 billion dollars, is about higher than the budget of the Ministry of Health and the entire health system. There's Bill 5354, three days he's been open to signing. Let's get 6.5 billion dollars out of the Ukrautodora and give them up to buy a vaccine. And those who voted in favour of this budget should know that this is their responsibility, that there is no money to buy vaccines now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u18	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Puziyczuk Andri Viktorovich, faction of the political party "European."The Fatherland," I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u19	Please give the word to a colleague after the faction of Kabachenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u20	Vladimir Kabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u21	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. To be honest, colleagues, we had to make this decision automatically. I find it hard to imagine what we can discuss right now, considering the urgency of this decision. Just one digit, we have a lot of things ahead of us today, just one digit to convince everyone, and I'm sure you're already convinced so that we can still give the absolute majority of the votes for this decision. Diabetes is a top-10 cause of death worldwide, and this rate has increased by 70 percent in recent years. And knowing all this statistics, knowing all these figures, there are no standards in Ukraine today for the treatment of diabetic children and adults. So this decision answers a very simple question: How do we find out in advance how to warn children and adults about diabetes? Let's do what we have to do, let's support this decision by an absolute majority of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u22	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Stefanishini, the faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, this is a fine decision to help children with diabetes, but it will remain on paper when there is no money for it. And today this money (pay attention!) Taken from children with diabetes, children with oncology to buy Pfizer vaccines. I have a document -- it's a government decree that they're going to vote tomorrow, and then they're going to send it to the budget committee, where 6.5 billion dollars are taken away from the patients who are being treated today in the Health Guarantees Program. It's the only program that's underfunded by 50 percent. And today, these children, including our government, especially the health minister Stepanov, who invented all of this, take the sum of 6.5 billion dollars for the purchase of vaccines. Here, colleagues offered to find money in the budget. So, please, let's try and find the vaccine money not in the children's pockets that they buy test strips and drugs at government expense, but from the roads, from the President's Office, from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and from others.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u24	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Larissa Mikolayevna. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, Larissa Bilozer, Deputy Group "Trust." The previous reporter doesn't forget that the State Procurement Department last year has shut down the purchases for oncology, for young children, you know, hundreds of millions of dollars. This too needs to be taken into account. And those funds just weren't taken. I'd like to add something. That these children are 9,000 500 for all of Ukraine up to 17 years old, they are. 95 percent of them, if they get sick, need this treatment forever. And the thing is, for today's OTG. territorial communities, they don't have most of them, they don't have the ability to finance the same tapes, Libre, the pumps. I'm not talking about pumps that are very valuable. Therefore, it is clearly necessary to support this decision in order to be able to develop programs and finance protocols, standards and tools, and products for treatment from government funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting for a proposal to adopt as a basis and for the whole of the draft Ordinance on the Use of Urgent Measures to Ensure Proper Prevention, Diagnostics, and Treatment of Sick Children for Sugar Diabetes. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:25:11]] For 326 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question of the agenda. This is the draft Ordinance on the Use of Urgent Measures for the Return of the Income Tax on Electricity for the Population in the First 100 kilowatt-hours (Registration No. 4590). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[16:26:06]] For 299 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:26:31]] For 272 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anton Eduardoovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u27	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you how it started. Kabmin, the whole government we voted, took an oath here, sworn to work for the people of Ukraine, not for the interests of the individual oligarchs. And what happened after that? By their command, they abolish the order of the predecessors, the previous unworthy government, which set this tax on the first 100 kilowatts for the population. You can't imagine, but the majors, of course, imagine how many people in Chernigovina have applied to me, in other areas where we've been going, about this tax rate. We have half the population of Ukraine outside of poverty, and beyond survival, we have an even greater part of that half. And these people count every penny. Even when they try to buy one fruit, Mandarins, bananas, and Grandma at the festival, and she doesn't know where to get another 70 bracelets to make up for that payment. And by this determination we're not as clear as in this decree that we adopted then, Mr. Arahamaia, but we're really asking the government to return these 100 first kilowatts to the premium of 90 kips. I ask everyone, I know that it has been given to the "slaves of the people" not to vote in favour of this decree, but I ask you all to really remember who you are working for -- really, for the people of Ukraine, not for the Kabmin or the Office of the President -- and to support this simple and clear decision that is not declarative, but really active. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u28	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Energy and Housing, Herus Andry Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u29	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, chairman! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Energy and Housing Services at its meeting on 13 April reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the use of emergency measures aimed at returning the population tax for electricity in the first 100 kilowatt-hours (registration number 4590). During the discussion of the draft regulation, the Committee concluded that the content of the proposed provisions was embodied in the text adopted on 28 January 2021 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures aimed at social protection in connection with the increase in prices (tariff) for residential services, which included the establishment of separate electricity tariffs for the population over a period of up to 100 kilowatt-hours per month, and the amount consumed up to 3,000 kilowatt-hours for buildings equipped with electricity. As a result of the committee's deliberations, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the use of urgent measures aimed at returning the electricity tax to the population for the first 100 kilowatt-hours (No. 4590) was not supported by members of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services. In view of what the draft decree proposes to reject. I reiterate that on January 28, we had already voted by Parliament on an appropriate draft decree, where the authors were national deputies from various factions and various parliamentary groups. And the decisions that are now, they often duplicate the decision taken. So I don't think there's any point in us accepting that we've already been approved in Parliament on January 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u30	Thank you. Please sign two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u31	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Colleagues, no one's secret, that the electricity tax, especially in the first 100 kilowatt-hours, was used by the least protected sections of Ukrainian society, especially residents of military towns, which are also largely in Lviv. Who lives in military towns? It is, of course, that the families and families of our protectors, the military pensioners, are generally pensioners, and it is they who, while living there, usually paid the first rate of up to 100 kilowatts less. Yet it has happened that since the new year they have been forced to pay almost twice the price for electricity consumption. It's unacceptable. So today we're talking to the government, and we recommend that we make immediate changes to fixed electricity prices for consumers and set the 90-pound tariff per kilowatt-hour when you consume up to 100 kilowatts. The adoption of such a decision, respected colleagues, will allow both the reduction of electricity prices for the most needy families and families in each of the areas of our country, and will probably remove this strain, which is in society because of excessive tariffs. So we urge you today to support this decision and recommend that the government make immediate changes and reduce electricity tariffs for our population. And we thank our colleagues and colleagues in Lviv, such as Taras Batenko, for making such fine decisions. I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u32	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u33	Dear Ukrainians, two years ago Zelensky promised the end of the poverty era. This time I did not lie because the period of poverty began. Zelensky promised the pensioners that they would have free electricity, free gas. On the other hand, the payments doubled. That's why they love the "servants" on all airs to tell what kind of country they have left. And then there was the country where the tax rate was, as colleagues correctly pointed out, 90 kips up to 100 kilowatts per hour, and the top winners were pensioners and the most vulnerable groups of the population. And so, at least in 2018-2019, we had enough funding for subsidies to the most vulnerable groups. In the first place, the team doubled the electricity tariffs, and the second half reduced the subsidies. And in fact, as a constructive opposition trying to reach out to the ignorant, how to run the country, we proposed a plan as early as January, the initiator Peter Poroshenko, Bill 4617. But it's not in the agenda that we've asked the government to return to the tax tariffs, to impose a ban on the import of Russian electricity, which has returned the "servants," including the heads of the committees here, the aggressor country. We called on the government to take practical steps to bring together the EU and Ukraine’s electricity networks. Similarly, make sure that the fraction of nuclear power is not less than 55 percent of the total quantity and that the Ukrainian audit service is commissioned to conduct audits. And what's more, yesterday's profit companies, including Oblenergo, Centrenerego, and today's is a waste of money, but today they're working for oligarchs, for servants, not for the people. We're in favour of this decision, but we're asking the government, too, to return 7 billion dollars to the grant in order to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u34	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u35	Thank you. Mr. Head, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this draft decree. But let's face it, the head of the committee correctly said that we had already voted in order to assign and turn to the Cabinet for the return of the tax rate. Are we back? Of course not. Why? Because the Prime Minister is representing a financial and industrial group that today is interested in not having this tax rate in order to get completely different profits, this time. It's another important moment. And why we're just talking about the tax on electricity, let's remember what else we raised. And they raised the price of gas, 6.99 Cabin tells us, and in fact we have 9,000, 138 dollars per thousand cubic meters. Let's think about the cold water supply when in Kiev from the 21st of December to the 27th of July, the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Market Regulation raised the tariff on cold water supply. Let's think about the tariff on natural gas delivery, which also caused an increase in the base price for gas. And let's also talk about what was raised tariffs on thermal energy production, which had an impact on the final fuel tariff for the population. All of these complex things have led to what we've already talked about with you today, that we have 82.1 billion dollars -- debt for utilities -- total record. But last and foremost, we're going to Kabmin. Will he accept these suggestions? I don't think so. Moreover, this Kabmin does not stand for the interests of Ukrainian citizens. This is the Kabmin, I'll remind you, who, after the local elections, has returned and cancelled the ten minimum wage for members of the supervisory board. It's an anti-national Kabmin, and he has to be retired. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u36	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u37	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, our parliamentary group, the Party for the Future, has launched today's introductory session. For six months we've been talking about that we're with you today, with the people's servants, and we've been playing cards with the shulers sitting in this roosters, in this bed, and they're the highest guilds, because only this government and the previous government can manipulate people and tariffs. Sorry, a year ago they promised that tariffs would be reviewed and that the entire population would receive new payments that would be much cheaper than before. We were told that the price of gas was too high and so forth. And you and I know it's true. I spoke and spoke on several occasions from this rostrum, from all the TV channels that today there is a conspiracy in Ukraine. We're trying to sell the most expensive electricity as a great good, green electricity, and at the time they're losing our nuclear power, they're essentially putting it into an agreement for the oligarchs, into an agreement for the oligaric groups. Today we are selling tariffs that are more expensive than in Europe. I invite members of the government to go out and walk around every city, every area, and walk on the driveways of the houses. There are packs of payments that people don’t even take into their hands today. I’ve been walking in many of these cities lately, and I’ve been on the road. You take a stack of bills, and there's a debt of 8,000 dollars, 12, 15. People no longer take those payments into their hands because they have nothing to pay. Nearly 100 billion dollars of municipal debt. What does this talk about? On the mindless energy policy, on the fact that the government has today played a role in the agreement to the oligarchs and continues with the same schemes that have existed for the last 10 years: gas revenues, middle-service earnings, electricity and everything. The noise is destroyed, and nothing is done for the population. Keep this resolve in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u38	All those who wish to speak? Sobolev, Sobolev, for reasons, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u39	Sobolje, Fatherland. I'm not going to this hall, this Presidium, I'm going to the citizens. What has been the result of the 347 votes passed by the Supreme Council in January? Open your credit cards. Have you changed anything? Are these 100 kilowatts worth of booze? No, it's not. See what happens to the price of gas. See what happens to prices of heat, hot water, and other tariffs. Has anything changed? What changes did the statutes once make? Who will be responsible for the fulfillment of this decree? I think that without the adoption of the key decisions on the transfer of Ukrainian gas to Ukrainian citizens and others, we will never get out of this gap. We vote in favour of this decision, but it doesn't change anything at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u40	Thank you. Ready to vote? Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for a basic and whole draft Ordinance on the use of urgent measures aimed at returning the electricity tax to the population in the first 100 kilowatt-hours (registration number 4590). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:42:21]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the application to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to cancel the unjustified increase in energy costs and introduce a moratorium of 1 year on the increase in energy tariffs (registration number 4609). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[16:43:10]] For 268. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:43:31]] For the 250. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u41	Colleagues, our parliamentary group "For the Future" as the initiator of the convening of an extraordinary session with representatives of other factions and groups who are saddened by this vote, which has just taken place with respect to the first 100 kilowatts of use for Ukrainian citizens. I think that Ukrainian citizens have closely monitored this vote and will look into the results of the vote, who are among the people in this session room. Let's take politics and think about people, after all. For those of you who can take this policy. To your attention, colleagues, the Supreme Council's decision to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to cancel the unjustified increase in energy costs and introduce a moratorium of 1 year on energy tariffs. We have to go back, colleagues, to the question of the restoration of energy tariffs that were in force at the end of 2020, because it has been 2.5 months since the session hall, we have supported the government's appeal to review the questionable decisions of the government and all the government authorities to raise from January 1st the value of everyone without the exception of energy carriers. Unfortunately, though, it has to be acknowledged that by authority this appeal of the Supreme Council has in fact been ignored, it has remained on paper. We do not consider it a major achievement and a step towards meeting the citizens of Ukraine with the introduction of a reduction in natural gas prices, after which the price of gas for the population has been even higher than the cost of buying it last summer, and more than the cost of producing its own Ukrainian gas. As a result of these decisions of power, the socio-economic situation of Ukrainian citizens has deteriorated significantly, much more in the time of the Lokdown. We don't empathize with our citizens, my friends. So let's support today's appeal not only to our MPs for the future, but also to the 153 people's deputies who today are in pain for Ukrainian citizens. Support, and let the people see who is in this sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u42	The head of the Committee on Energy and Housing, Herus Andry Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u43	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! To avoid taking too much time, I will immediately move on to the decision that has been made. Decision No. 4609 was not supported by members of the committee, and it is therefore proposed that it be rejected. I would like to point out once again that on January 28th, the Ukrainian Parliament voted on a regulation that envisaged a number of measures in the area of tariffs for electricity and gas. Moreover, this decree did not remain declarative. After that, the government passed a bill where we sent 1.4 billion dollars to compensate people with electricity, children’s homes, and many children. In addition, the government decided to lower the price of gas, and even January’s price was also reduced to 6.99. In addition, tariffs for 13 so - called frauds, where they were the highest, were also reduced. So our decision, which was voted on January 28, was first settled and stated our position on the issues that are being raised today, and secondly, it had a practical effect. So I ask that we not simply duplicate the number of decisions that we have already voted in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u44	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u45	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, of course, our faction will vote on this decision because it's about helping people who are now extremely difficult, in extremely difficult conditions. But you know what I hear from our authority? They tell us, listen, it's like freezing prices, it's populism. You know, and I'm opening up, Green from December 19, 2019: "They found an interesting solution to double the heat tariffs." Greensky used to say that as an already active president. Where is this interesting decision? To whom did they downgrade? On the contrary, things are only rising, rising, and rising. People are having a really hard time today. The second item in this draft regulation is to add money to subsidies. And I want to remind you that back in January, the European Solidarity faction passed a bill to increase funding for subsidies, to take the President's Office, to give people 7 billion dollars. We're running out of April, we're running out of budget money for grants. How will we pay money to people? If we don't make these decisions today, it's going to be a complete disaster, people will be left without any protection. Next, look, what's going on with energy in general. Today, when Putin throws weapons at our borders, we continue to send hundreds of millions of dollars for Russian and Belarusian electricity, and Belarus is actually Russian, and so is Rosatom. Tell me, what else is going to happen, that you finally made a decision to stop buying Russian electricity? If we destroy our own energy at this rate, we have nothing left. 60 years ago, Ukraine was standing in the water when man flew into space. Today, the question for us is to provide the country with electricity. What have you "servants" led to! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u46	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u47	Please pass the word to Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u48	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, I reiterate that on January 28, we voted on a decision that regulates the main issues that we have. One of the points of this decision was the electricity tariffs, and for the first 100 kilowatt-hours, and for 3,000 kilowatt-hours for electricity. It was also important to recommend to the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to take steps in accordance with the legislation on non-competitive concerted action and the abuse of monopolistic dominant position in the market by operators who provide housing services to the population. So let's go back to the Antimonopoly Committee, but we don't have to duplicate the same decisions that we've already voted on. Otherwise, you can just register 430 decrees from each national MP and thus arrange for this popular championship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u50	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u51	Thank you and I'd like to give you the word of Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u52	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u53	Thank you. Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Of course, today we are obliged to vote in favour of this decree, to impose a moratorium on raising unfounded, long - standing, municipal tariffs. And let's face it, 81 billion dollars is what people can't pay today. Now, if you'll excuse me, the fool understands that these tariffs are beyond human control. I want to go back to the previous vote. 174 national MPs have decided to vote in favour of returning the benefits to our citizens at the price of electricity. Anyone who press the yellow card or, God forbid, the red card, believe me, it'll come back to him. Today, every penny taken out of our citizens' pockets is on your conscience and on your, by the way, government. And given all that we're seeing right now, I'm asking the question: Who are you serving, the people? Or. I remember "the stadium is so stadium", "I am your sentence." But it turned out to be justifiable. And that's true today. You said you'd be a judgment for Dusty, and it turns out that Dusty is a judgment for you. We're all accused of being an opposition that doesn't count on the realities that are in the country today. Look, regardless of our political views, we are united today around the initiative to improve people’s lives and reduce the burden on municipal tariffs. This should unite us. Even here, you "ministers of the people" have been unable to understand what hurts people. People today are expecting help from you. And today they got a slap from you. I hope that this decision will be voted on and that the moratorium will be imposed on municipal services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u54	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u55	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. First. The Fatherland faction will support the vote in favour of this decree. I mean, unlike the previous one, it not only requires a return to old people, to New Year's electricity tariffs, but also to gas. That's a plus. On the other hand, I would like to remind you once again that this decision is indeed a recommendational decision. We want to try again -- please let's try to get the government to lower the tariff again. We, and I worked in the government of Timoshenko in 2007-2010, are repeatedly asked and harassed, and what did you do then? And remember what the gas tariffs were then -- tens of times less, what was the price of electricity, what was the cost of housing services, how the State Housing and Utilities Inspectorate protected people. That's what we did. This is the first time. And secondly, I'm sorry, such a mess, such a lack of any tariff policy at all, the policies of government regulation never existed in the sphere at that time. And now it's a pack that's absorbing us. But we want to experiment, please. Now for a few more words. I think the following decisions will give me the same time to speak. Guys, let's ask you a question: what does the National Commission do at this time with the regulation of energy and utilities, which we keep with you, which pays off huge fees? In fact, what does a government that does not actually do our recommendations with you? And the main question is, who is responsible for the disaster in the field of energy and housing services? This is the main question that we need to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u56	Thank you. Are there any who would like to speak out of motives? Rudik. Rudik came along. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, then Shahov, and then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u57	Dear Ukrainians, I don't even know what to say in a minute about what Mr. Herus said, don't compete in populism. And the population of greed suits you when last year's European Habi, in February, the price of a thousand cubes was $95.7 in Zebrüg, and in Ukraine it went up to $300 a year. Aren't you afraid of that number? When our parliamentary group almost unanimously prepared this draft decision, it was January, it was a heated season, you were afraid to put it to the vote. Looking at it now that the heating season is over. Do you know what the price will be in the near future? We appreciate it somewhere. No one can even say, again, $300. Did this age of greed not get you, dear Ukrainians? You voted for this power. And we have a slight chance to postpone this story by voting in favour of this draft decree. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u58	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, today tariffs are a slow genocide of the Ukrainian people. I keep getting calls from Lugansk, from Donetsk. And now entrepreneurs have been called, saying, why is it that for Donetsk and Luhansk, electricity tariffs are the biggest? Why do Ukrainians today pay for the transit of gas in those pipes that have already rusted and rolled? More money is paid than our gas, which can be extracted in Ukraine! They've made some slow gas market for some oligarch uncle sitting in the ocean today, swimming on a yacht, and people are supposed to be working on it today! When this is over in our country, please tell me. We sit in this room to adopt normal laws and regulate prices for lowering today's electricity and gas tariffs. And what happened? We have successfully failed a tariff reduction order of at least 100 kilowatts for people, we don't speak for business anymore. Dear colleagues, that's enough today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u60	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting for the proposal to adopt as a basis and for the whole of the draft Ordinance on the application to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the cancellation of the unjustified increase in energy costs and the imposition of a moratorium of 1 year on the increase in energy tariffs (registration No. 4609). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:59:12]] For-153 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in metrology, the provision of housing services and the protection of consumer rights (registration number 4576). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. 4567. [[16:59:58]] For 252 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:00:19]] For 247 The solution. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? The author insists. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anna Konstantinovna, is invited to attend. Then the author, the committee, then we can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, this is a perfectly normal bill that regulates at least a little bit the entire a·neʹa that was adopted in the walls of this Supreme Council of the Ninth Call. I think every major came to people and talked about the injustice they were supposed to pay for transporting and delivering gas when gas was not used, or when they had long gone to pellets, wood, and they still had an average consumption for supplies. in 2018. I understand that our committee doesn't support this through Mr. Gerus, because he's uncomfortable with it, because they don't charge the committee, and you won't get the extras in the envelope. But you will help people at least on an elementary level. I'm asking you to come to your senses. You have failed many fine decisions that little by little will fulfill your election promises. If you don't give a shit about people, go out and say, "We don't care what you think about us." Yes, we gave up our votes for you. Yes, we believed in you. Yes, we voted for you. Please tell me, what are you doing? You promised to lower tariffs. So let's do it. Why are you manipulating me? It is not true that tariffs cannot be lowered. You have cemented green tariffs, you've extended green metallurgy, you've voted on many more bills that have led to an increase in tariffs and a cancellation of the benefits. I ask you not to vote on the committee's decision on this bill. Please accept it in the first reading. First of all, the second reading, we're going to correct those mistakes that Mr. Herus is now talking about, because it intersects with 2458, which is not signed by the President today. The bill also regulates the issue of counters. You know, we've been with you for a long time, and the tariff has been set, the cost of trust and replacement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u62	Thank you. The chairman of the Energy and Housing Committee, Herus Andriy Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u63	The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Settlement of Certain Issues in Metrology, Housing Services and Consumer Rights Protection (No. 4576) was discussed by the Committee at its meeting on 4 March this year. The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on metrology and metrology, on commercial accounting of thermal energy and water supply, on housing and utility services, on heat supply, on natural gas market, and on consumer rights. The main scientific and expert office has made substantive remarks and proposals to the bill. The Ministry of Public and Territorial Development of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice have concluded that the project is not appropriate due to substantial observations. The Ministry of Energy noted that the project needed to be discussed and further developed with energy professionals. In addition, Bill 4576 proposes to amend part four of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Metrology and Metrology, part three of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Housing and Utilities, which overlaps with the amendments introduced by Bill No. 2458 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services, which has been signed by the President of Ukraine since 11 December 2020. That is to say, the changes are proposed in the current laws, and if Bill No. 2458 becomes effective, there will be a legal collegiate. As a result of the discussion and taking into account the conclusions reached, the committee decided by a majority to recommend a bill of 4576 to the authors for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u64	Thank you. We can go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Two factions. Okay. Sign up. Three factions. Sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u65	Please pass it on to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u66	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u67	I'll keep going. Dear colleagues, we have many. If you remember, we have paid for many years, and the tariff has been set up to replace the counters and be trusted by the service providers. Today, a young family, a family, a single mother, cannot at one time withdraw 3,000 dollars in exchange for a counter. The bill changes it and returns the rules when it was the providers who paid for the replacement and trust of the counters. And the third issue that this bill deals with is the guaranteed level of municipal services. We all know that everybody wants us to pay very much for utility fares today, but very often in a house plus 16 at best, and from a tap where hot water has to flow, we have hot water running, and we pay in full for it. So I'm going to propose to each of you to come to terms, to mention what you promised your constituents, to mention what you're saying on live broadcasts, to give briefings, and still to support this bill in the first reading, and not in the way that Mr. Herus wishes, to bring it back to work. Between the first and the second readings, we will correct those articles that cross Law 2458. I realize, of course, that MPs may have a good salary, but people don't all have elite dogs to sell and pay for gas, pay for electricity and other utilities. I'm asking you very much, please. You're not run by the IMF, you're not run by the President's Office. I hope each of you have a little bit of conscience, it's floating down there somewhere, and now you're going to think about it and you're going to press the green button. I am very grateful to all of you, and from your voters, please vote for the bill with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u68	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u70	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u71	Thank you. First of all, it is good that the drafter of the bill admits the mistakes made in this bill and promises to correct them between the first and the second readings. But I think it's better if these mistakes are corrected in the course of drafting the bill, and then a normal bill that doesn't conflict with and contain conflicts with other norms will go to the committee and the committee will look at it peacefully. And I want to point out that the committee doesn't take money for adoption of bills, the committee requires that the bills be quality and professional. And it was just the most corrupt drafts that were, that set some low tariffs for data centers, then some green tariff for burning garbage, and they were blocked at the committee level. So I'm asking you to accompany your accusations to the law enforcement agencies if you have any facts, not to deal with fairies here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u72	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u73	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we talk a lot about tariffs today, but they haven't changed anything in half an hour. Although it was possible to help people today who are suffering, who are hungry, who are poor, who have no wages to pay. I'm not just talking about miners right now, I'm even talking about doctors who didn't even get medical treatment today because they're sick. Dear colleagues, each of us can take a step to help people. I'm turning not only to Donbas, but to all the Ukrainians, each of us today can force the Cabinet to work for the people, not for their own pocket. What are tariffs? It's people's lives, and tariffs kill people every day. Today, it was said from this rostrum that the debt of 82 billion dollars was owed to people. How will people repay, how will debt be restructured? Who will be responsible for what is being done today at the rate of genocide every second? Who Will Answer? Those with suitcases ready to run abroad? Maybe COVID will stop them today. Dear colleagues, note once again that tariffs should not be raised but reduced. And now for Donetsk and Lugansk. I turn from small, medium-sized business to the head of the committee, to the head of the NCREKP, to lower tariffs for those who are still working. Not to force the oligarchs today to skin ten people, but to make sure that the parliament does work for the people. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u74	Eutushka. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u75	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I want to add a little bit of professionalism, first of all, to the title of this bill, it's about making changes to the Housing Services Act and metrology. That's the first one. Now, second. Guys, this is half the majors, my advice to you. Go to the district, ask your city heads, ask your directors about the heat utility, water and other utilities, and what their debts are today. Not only has the debt of 82.5 billion people today been accounted for, but March has not yet been counted. It's about what, let's say, heatcommuneergo owed -- 63 billion NAC Naftogazu, which drove it there. Do you have any idea who these funds will be taken from? From your local budgets, friends and measures, and hear me out to the local deputies. Ask me about the debts of water canals. So this bill is the first step to starting to correct a little bit what the previous Parliament did and what you did. Friends, I'm going to ask you one question, by the way, and to you, Mr. Head, and to you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, and what about the Law 2458, which on 3 December we voted with you, the Law on Amendments to the CDC? Why hasn't our president signed this law yet? I asked the President: Mr. President, why don't you sign the law? He said the deadline was over, consider it acceptable. But Mr. Razumkov, our head, now has to publish it, print it. Four months later, we passed the LLC Act, but nothing changed, and the debt pit was huge. So, my friends, at least get your shit together. We support this bill in order to start saving the country at some point in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no procedure. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the field of metrology, the provision of housing services and the protection of consumer rights (registration No. 4576). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:14:04]] For-174 The decision is not taken. 174, no decision taken. I'm now voting for a motion to refer to the preparatory committee for a second time. Based on the base. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in metrology, the provision of housing services and the protection of consumer rights (registration No. 4576). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:14:57]] For 122 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to refer to the Committee for the re-reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the field of metrology, the provision of housing services and the protection of consumer rights (registration No. 4576). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:15:45.]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the application to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for urgent measures aimed at reducing the price of electricity and tariffs for the distribution of natural gas (registration number 4587). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:16:31]] For 285 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:16:53]] For 246 Decision taken. No discussion? Let the author speak, and let's vote. The author insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u78	Look, well, it's a discussion. Discussing?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u79	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u80	Julia Grigorovna, with the discussion? Or with discussion, you see, everyone insists. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion. Everyone just said no talking. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decree on the Referral to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at reducing the price of electricity and tariffs for the distribution of natural gas (Registration No. 4587). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:18:25]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Let's see the factions. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u81	I think, given today's lockdown, people have been watching closely how today's session was going. The first morning, when agricultural land was embalmed, it all went like butter: it was voted against in any way to protect the land and make it sold safely, without any conditions on the part of the state. And the second half of today's sessional day is just a violation of people's expectations about lowering tariffs. Everything is empty piazza, dilettanism, and absolutely no decisions for people. This means that today it has been demonstrated that everything about tariffs is completely in control and most, and no one wants to change anything. I want to show you a table. That's from the moment I left my post as Prime Minister. Heat rose 12 times in price, gas 17 times, electricity 7 times and hot water 11.2 times. I want you to just compare how they treat you today and how they treated you recently. I want to tell you that, in fact, simple solutions exist because they existed in the country for 23 years. The first is Law 4680, which has not been put into the agenda today, which simply brings back the order that existed for 23 years of independence of the country when Ukrainian gas was given to Ukrainian citizens and to the budgetary sphere. All of this has been destroyed since the 14th year, and now this corruption continues. And the others. For 17 years, there was an energy market in Ukraine that my government did, where nuclear, hydro, and heat roads were connected to a single pool and sold to people 7 times below the average price. Destroyed. And today, nuclear power is taken from people by corrupt structures, Ukrainian gas by corrupt agents, and in this room even refuse to consider it. And so I would like to tell people right now that as long as there are corrupts, ignorants, and dilettarians in power, we will have such tariffs, such a meager pension, a salary, a ruined health care. And if people really come back who understand how to rule the state, we're going to have a normal European rich state with protected people. Think about it next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I hereby declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
