ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u1	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first left-hand button for. Please register. [[09:58:32]] There are 222 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Leonidina Klimenko, Juliet. Congratulations! Health, strength, success — from yourself and from colleagues! [[Applause]] I remind you that in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have within 30 minutes statements from MP factions and groups that announce proposals, statements and messages. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, a venerable Ukrainian society! Traditionally, we have a heated season in Ukraine that exposes all the problems that accumulate in the economy. In the housing sector, we are, as always, not ready for the heating season. And in fact, providing the country with energy resources is a priority issue that will become a day-to-day issue. As we know, this year the situation has been complicated by a crisis in the European gas market, when the aggressor country of the Russian Federation, in the background of the forced entry into operation of the North Stream-2, artificially overwhelms the price of natural gas, limiting the supply of raw materials to Europe. And this catastrophic rise in gas prices in Europe is exacerbating this problem, especially in the face of the collapse of self-sustainment plans, instillation, timely implantation in the underground storage of Ukrainian gas. In recent days, Ukrainian citizens have been hearing optimistic statements by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, about the signing of the Memorandum to prevent the increase in tariffs from heating up this heated season. However, society has no concrete answer to this question of how this stability will be achieved in the context of European gas price growth and what burden this situation will have on the budget, on local budgets, on the state budget, on ordinary citizens of Ukraine. So we think that the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, especially the government in this session room, should answer these questions without delay: What will be the situation with gas and heat prices, and what burden will our citizens face? On a global scale, we do not have the answer, my friends, to the questions from our international partners: is Ukraine still a major gas carrier, should we seek other sources of compensation for the loss of some of our transit capacity? The point is that the North Stream 2 hasn't even started to work yet, and Ukraine is already losing its gas transit to Hungary. And Russia here seems to have nothing to do with it. What is the value of our international partners ’ earlier assurance? Friends, another issue that we would like to highlight is that the MP's "For the Future" Group is calling for the next session by gathering the necessary 150 signatures of the Ukrainian National Deputies. We have seen examples of extracurricular meetings initiated by our group, where the vast majority of members of the majority do not want to participate. The next session concerns pension insurance in Ukraine, which breathes for incense, pension increases, minimum pension levels according to the minimum wage, and the issue of the overall survival of our pensioners. I think that Thursday will show who's who in this room, how we care about social policy in the state, how we protect our citizens, how we protect the most vulnerable groups of the population. Let's come, vote, support our pensioners, provide them with decent living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u3	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u4	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Ukraine has stubbornly occupied, unfortunately, one of the first places of death of our citizens from the coronavirus. At the level of vaccination, we stubbornly take our last or last place among the countries of Europe. Today we demand responsibility from the authorities to prevent the provision of adequate vaccination centres. If they've done anything with vaccines, they'll give it to us for free. Moreover, the Ministry of Health allows itself to dispose of 30,000 doses of Pfizer, the rarest and most sought-after vaccine. And at this level, unfortunately, the authorities are not able to promote a normal vaccination campaign. There are no vaccine centers. On the other hand, we see the inability of the authorities to overcome the very serious problem of municipal tariffs. When there's Ukrainian gas on our own, we can't provide people with a normal price for gas in the context of the crisis that we are now seeing in the markets of European gas. Today, we demand that the Supreme Council first collect and resolve the issue of enacting laws that will allow Ukrainians to use their own gas. And not to pay a hidden tax on gas from every Ukrainian, 250-300 dollars is now paid by every Ukrainian for the inability of the authorities to distribute fairly what belongs to people. When does the opposition begin to talk about this, what do we see? Servants aren't allowed to go on TV. Why? I remember, two years ago you said honestly, we don't need journalists, we'll talk directly to the people. You don't go straight, you're afraid to go to the people, you're just afraid, you're hiding. So today we demand that journalists be given the right to communicate with every elected national MP, with the President and with the government. You have to explain to journalists what you're doing with the country and where you're taking them, Ukrainians have the right to know what's coming in the near future. For the next 20 to 30 years, "but Vasyuka" is good. But Ukrainians have the right to know who will protect them today, who will give them their own gas, who will protect the health of every family, and every Ukrainian. You must serve them, not men should serve you; you are chosen today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u5	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u6	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My dear friends, I think that all the Ukrainians who are now hearing the Supreme Council demonstration, in principle, are expecting this Supreme Council, at a time when price increases have gone down, when no one understands what will happen to tariffs, when everyone knows that pensions have been brought to such a minimum that people can't survive, want anything to be considered about people in this room. Now I have practically the agenda of this session, this session week, which is just not there. 5600 is to tax the agrarians on land with pies. There are cloudy services here, beautiful, but for the people, it's not going to do anything at all. Here's a change in geographical names, which I think is the least interesting to people today. Or lobbyist laws that simply fill this order of days. Lobby, I translate for those who can hear us -- these are corrupt laws or empty ones that mean nothing. The issue is that the Supreme Council has stopped living with virtually all people’s interests and pains, and vice versa, there is still a twist in health and education, in all directions. I would like you to either mention that you are representatives of the people and for them you live and work here, or do not make an illusion of the work of this Supreme Council. You've all heard of a memorandum signed on tariffs between local government, government and someone else. I can tell you that this memo is absurd and it doesn't solve anything. The point is, it was signed by the mayors, a few measures that practically lead the community of district centers where there is an opportunity for these additional 4 percent of the PDF, to pay the difference in tariffs for people, other OTG cities, they don't have that balance. And now across the country, measures, more faithfully done by the board, have approved tariffs of 30 to 70 percent higher for people and twice higher for budgetary institutions, for kindergartens, schools, hospitals and so on. With our Ukrainian gas costing 1 bracelet, people are sold eight times more and budget institutions at least 13. That is why we demand Law 4680, not on an orderly meeting, but immediately. TSC (Temporary Investigation Commission on NAC) to consider immediately. And to immediately gather the mayors together with Parliament and with the government to stop the mess of tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u7	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna. Password? Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u8	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Dear Ukrainians, there are at least three key topics in our country today that are not something they can't forget, but should work every day, propose decisions and draft bills. The first is the war in the east of our country. The second is the fight against the COVID pandemic and vaccination. And the third is the heating season that's about to begin. I'd like to start with the issue of war. The eighth year of the Russian Federation is an aggression against our country. In the eighth year, the Russian Federation kills Ukrainians, annexes Crimea, and temporarily invades Donetsk and Lugansk. Every week, unfortunately, our soldiers are killed. And we remember their memory of the dead, the fallen, and we know of such an important institution as the question of State rewards. Regrettably, in addition to the true warriors and people who deserve these State rewards, there are today in our country outright scum, traitors, collaborators who still have these titles. That's why I initiated a bill that was supported by 34 people's deputies, who are co-authors, from virtually all factions and groups. Who will allow us to deprive us of the State rewards of collaborators, traitors, those who cooperate with the occupation authorities, those who acknowledge annexation or occupation, those who call for association with the Russian Federation. These people must be deprived of State rewards. And I'm calling and calling for a profile committee, and I'm calling for our hall to support this bill, not put it in distant drawers. Because we need to build our pantheon of our heroes, we need to restore justice because it's a struggle for meaning. As far as vaccination is concerned in our country. Dear colleagues, I would like to see what President Vladimir Zelensky did every time someone says that communication, the vaccination campaign has failed, and what President Vladimir Zelensky did, where he spoke, where he addressed the people of Ukraine, where he called for a mass vaccination, to lead the elderly, who unfortunately are at risk, and among them are catastrophically low vaccination rates. It is President Vladimir Zelensky who is personally responsible for the vaccination campaign in our country, and he should not only be an example but a reminder to the Ukrainians every week to say how important this topic is. And the third is the heating season. I'll be brief and unpopular. New York City, New Division, hundreds of other communities in the country that had no hot water and no heat in the past years. The responsibility of the government is to make this issue resolved this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u9	Vitotrowicz Volodymyr Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians! Green all his life, he dreamed of getting on the world’s media. Dreams come true. And today the Green Barrier and the Offshore President on the front pages of the Air Force, the Guardian, the Washington Post. And I'm being yelled at again: provocation, conduct an RNB and impose sanctions against the BBC, the Guardian, the Washington Post, which are written about the President's "offshore" and the Green Barrier. Bankowski's positive bloggers have already included that they're good offshores. It's not really about offshore as a media tool, it's about the fact that it was driven by a crime of more than $40 million from Private Bank, where the state invested 155 billion in the refinance. And so, dear pensioners, when you ask, and why do we have a pension of 1 thousand 700 dollars, ask the president's offshore office. How did my colleague, Vladya Ariev, do you know how much taxes he paid in the five most difficult years in 2019? In 2014 – 0, 2015 – 3 thousand dollars, and in the five most difficult years before his presidency, this offshore very successful businessman and the Green Barrier paid only 1 million dollars of taxes from ten companies. And if I'm telling the truth, here's Yusik from the quarter, let's please make adjustments to these numbers. Would the law enforcement agencies violate criminal cases against the "offshore" president? Apparently not, because they all hung out at a disco in Truscavec with an offshore green bar. But there he confessed to a state crime -- that he was the one who called Lukashenko and told him that the Wagnerians had come to his territory. And his former secretary on the oligarchic channel went on, and she said that Lukashenko, in talking to the Green Barrier, was still promising to give back the Wagnerians. Thus, the matter is also a matter of national treachery. Will it be dedicated to the PNB? Obviously not, since some comforting hearings are being held there, smuggling has already been overcome. But, Mr. Danielov, we want to ask you, how come we're being smuggled into the containers of the head of the Department of Simple Reforms in Georgia? You know, we're already having a hole in the border there, and smuggling and human trafficking are taking place on a live air. So in fact, my friends, we're facing huge challenges to democracy, and I'm very sorry that the media are playing into the dungeons of the Bank. The same thing happened yesterday after the investigation was conducted, a group of "Scheme" investigators were beaten in the office of the head of the Ukrexim State Bank. They took the cameras, removed the media, and removed the possibilities. This is the pressure on journalism and the right to work. We require the law enforcement authorities to file criminal cases for interference with work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u11	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! There is work to be done on the preparation of the budget for next year, and the Trust MP group has made clear what priority we have in this direction. First of all, it's social protection, it's budget workers, it's our educators, it's our scientists, it's our health workers, it's our culture, it's different. We paid attention to the adoption of the so - called tariff memorandum. The heating season ahead and, of course, today must be done to avoid rising energy tariffs, especially in the area where the population is unable to pay. But once again, budget institutions should be protected, so we will keep a close eye on further developments. Next, we insist that the budget should take into account a substantial increase in salaries for budget staff. We welcome the fact that the government today agrees to leave at least 5 percent of the GDP in the health sector. But I'm reminding you that the same picture should also be on raising wages for our education. The ambitious goal that both the Prime Minister and the President have sounded is to build a new state. A corresponding new generation is modern, enlightened. Who will prepare it? Teachers, scientists need to feel the state’s concern. They have to be fully provided, and then we can do those tasks. A separate issue is the payment of a cadaver's so-called tariffs, packets. I would like to remind you that the National Health Service should provide timely payment of services provided by our hospitals, medical facilities, for the treatment of patients with COVID. Today, according to local information, we are already in debt in August of the month, in September of the month. The requirements of the National Service for this package are changing, so we're going to the government and to this commission to address the issues clearly to determine the standards, the list of services that can be paid, and ensure their timely implementation. And to the end. Since September 25, a new law enforcement body, the Bureau of Economic Security, had to work. An extremely important body that will fight against the shadow economy will ensure that hidden taxes come into the budget. We call on the government to provide them with conditions (rooms, office equipment, everything they need) so that they can work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is given to the Kuzmin People's Deputy Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Sergeant of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u14	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! It is a pity that we again have to speak out of this high rostrum, not with happy news, but again with the facts of corruption that are taking place in our Ukraine. About a week ago, in the Gitomir region, two top doctors of the Gitomir district were detained for demanding money from people for drugs that the state guarantees for free. The investigation is now under way, and I will very much ask all the investigating authorities to make an impartial investigation and punish the guilty. My address is also addressed to the hospital’s chief physician. We're all adults, and we realize that it's impossible to make free medicine in a hospital without a head doctor, so that someone doesn't talk about it because there are certain procedures, certain signatures, certain circumstances. And I'm addressing the leadership of the area. I want to see what they're doing to punish the guilty. We're collecting this budget ourselves to make medicine more or less free in this case so that people can get those drugs for free so that the Health Guarantee Program works. And we've been playing with this budget for a month now, filling it up. We want to increase GDP so that more people get this help quality. What do we see? We see what happens when certain people are exposed to these drugs. And for whom? For those with cancer, for those who have experienced this serious illness, who realize that their lives depend on these drugs. And selling these free drugs -- I think it's a shame. And please consider my address official and pay attention, and don't let it go off the wheels as it happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. Let's get to work. There's been an announcement for a break, a real break. Please ask the faction leaders to meet me in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, our interview continues in the Head's office. So two other factions of "European Solidarity" and "The Voice" asked for another break, so we'll continue at 11:25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, a minute, an announcement. Please take your seats, get ready for work. A meeting was held with the heads of the MP factions and groups, and the following decisions were made. Now the first question is the procedure, the so-called special procedure for 119 primates. 1 times 5600. The second question. There are two factions' appeal, so I understand that it will come in writing right now, to remove the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from holding plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll see. Then, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the day - to - day third issue will be included in the order of action related to the actual launch of the recall procedure as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Didn't I make a mistake? That's the deal? That's the deal. Dear colleagues, you are being considered by the proposal of 160 Ukrainian national deputies to apply a special procedure for the second reading of the bill, provided for in article 119 pr. 1 Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: on the second reading of the draft Act (Registration No. 5600) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure a balanced budget income. A word for the report. It is considered a reduced procedure. We've come to the question. They're asking questions. The report is given by one of the initiators of this proposal to the national deputy of Ukraine, the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Daniel Alexanderovich Gettmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, thank you! Thank you for your support and thank you for the word "disgrace." It seems to me that it is a disgrace to introduce 11.5,000 amendments to the bill to overthrow the bill to amend the Tax Code, which eliminates tax imbalances, removes all the political corruption that has accumulated in the Tax Code in 30 years, and makes taxation the only one for all, makes it equal for all and builds up. is budgeted by this law for 30 billion dollars, which, by the way, will be reflected in the budget for the second reading. So we don't have to look at these amendments. Have you read these amendments, by the way? The word "project" is replaced by the word "project." Or even those that do not contain any meaning. Thus, in order not to consider all of these amendments, which are intended solely to delay the consideration of this bill, we propose to apply the procedure provided by the Rules for the consideration of the bill (this is article 119 p.m.). The rule) and consider it as a shortcut, according to a special procedure. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u19	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. It was Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For no one is the secret that, unfortunately, the opportunities that the Rules have to provide for normal consideration, discussion, communication are used to systematically curb reforms in the country. Systematicly preventing the country from developing. That's why we talked about this yesterday, and I repeat it today: we will also take advantage of the possibilities that are in the Supreme Council Rules to ensure a free, transparent, competitive review of those issues that are key to reforming the country, to bring it closer to membership in European and world structures, primarily in NATO and the EU. So I think that a bill that finally allows our tax system to be much more transparent, much more accountable, has to be considered without spending time looking at completely artificial stupid rights. Please support the special procedure, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u21	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainians, Green and "ministers" are preparing a country of double standards. Now every single one of you that has 1 hectare of land under this law that they're now stretching is trying to force you to pay 1 thousand 50 dollars per hectare. At this time, the offshore green president didn't pay taxes for his "successful neighborhood." And if I'm telling the truth, let Corivchenkov provide information on how much tax was paid out of the quarter. Excuse me, when we're told today that every railroadman, every groper can open an offshore. Yeah, but they won't get 40 million out of the private bank's tax returns from ordinary Ukrainians so that the Golebeard can record his shows and sell like a simple Golebeard to Russia. In order to continue to receive the Royalty of what is happening today from his team that has entered the investigation of all the world’s columns. And now that the opposition in its entirety today wants to amend Law 5600, with which every Ukrainian gets laid, even the air, these are the comrades who live for the money of the oligarchs, for the envelopes 20, 30, and some 50, for leading the party of the "ministers of the people" as the TSN. They want to bet you because by "the big theft," they're going to be collecting these taxes and taking the envelopes. We are firmly opposed to breaking parliamentaryism here today, so that democracy will be raped here today, so that a country of double standards will come back here when the Holocaust is everything when the "slaves" are converted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u23	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u24	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, you know very well that Law 5600, which now stretches so far, is the Law on the introduction of additional taxes for food owners on agricultural land, as well as for owners of cities and everything else. In other words, in violation of all procedures, violating the Rules, they are trying to impose an additional tax on those who must become small farmers and who are processing their pies. You know they're insolvent with these taxes and they're either in debt or you're forcing them to sell their land. And secondly, the ability of small entrepreneurs (FOPs) to engage in business activities is greatly reduced. I want to ask: Why are you beating the poorest? And why do you collect taxes from those to whom the State has to help with subsidies and subsidies? What are you doing? And what is the policy of cleaning up the middle class of Ukraine? So today these little entrepreneurs under the Supreme Council are standing on your knees begging you not to pass this law and cancel the previous one that you have adopted after the destruction of business. I now have in my hands the official address of the European Business Association to you and the President, and also the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs. In addition, the American Chamber of Commerce was also here. Virtually all Ukrainian entrepreneurs have joined together, here is a document that requires immediate removal from consideration of 5,600 — the law that you now want to extend under a reduced procedure. You know, cleaning up the middle class is the biggest crime you can do. We are voting against the special procedure and against this law. And I ask everyone who has a mind to vote against.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u25	Volosin Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, we are told here that the opposition is blocking reforms. But the whole world, not just the entire Ukrainian society, has seen the essence of these reforms. It's when taxes are paid by everyone except Green and his immediate surroundings, because the money's offshoring. It's when you do everything you can to make a person look beautiful, even though it's the same as the oligarchs he seems to want to fight. You don't understand, you're smart people, where did this information come from? This information comes from the American law enforcement system, it's an investigation. If you're covering for the President and his environment today, you're becoming an accomplice and a potential participant in American sanctions lists. Think about it. Because today it's a colossal international scandal. Green in one row with the world's greatest corrupters is a perfect fact. And if you want to be in that line, protect it further, then you'll sit with him. And this special procedure, you hide the oligarchy interests that the committee wants to hide, by lowering taxes just for the richest, and by raising them to the middle class and the poorest. The Guardian clearly wrote: The antioligarchy president himself behaves like an oligarch. That's not what we said, not the other factions -- that's what the most popular edition of Britain said. Controversy with them, impose sanctions against them, but you will soon sit together by all authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u27	It's the Iron Man's motive. Who else will speak out of motive? Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u28	About the bill. I didn't give him a lot of credit. And thank you to the committee that's been working for 25 hours to have many of the things that the business is complaining about accounted for. I had a meeting with the American Chamber of Commerce, with other associations, and there are still mistakes. Danilo Alexandrovich! Hetmans Danilo Alexanderovich, head of the Tax Committee! I very much ask that we correct the mistakes there, at least not to destroy some of the branches. And last of all, I won't be long. Dear colleagues, when this special procedure 119-1 was voted on, it was a banking law, I recall, a quarantine, with an IMF charter, it was an agreement between all of us that it would be applied once. And then we change the Rules of Procedure by the Law of Frolov and we can vote anything. Unfortunately, this arrangement has now been breached. So vote on this law as you vote against the Rules and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u29	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. In accordance with article 119 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal of 160 Ukrainian National Deputies to apply a special procedure for the second reading of the draft Law (Registration No. 5600) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure a balanced budget revenue. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:38:09]] For 254 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Pursuant to article 119, p. 1 The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are requested to send letters to the Committee on Financial, Tax and Customs Policy concerning the consideration of their proposals and rights to the Committee on Financial, Tax and Customs Affairs, on a two-day basis. Do All Remember the Procedure? A new table is being developed and compiled and Bill 5600 will be considered, most likely in the next plenary week. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Check, please, we're not voting yet. Dear colleagues, the procedure, Vlasenko. One person from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Head. Unfortunately, with the procedure, my button didn't work, please count the voice "against."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u31	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u33	Next question of the agenda. There are three MP factions, the "Serial of the People" faction and two members of the "Trust" group (I call it, don't worry) and "For the future," about the removal, according to article 29, of the removal of the Head of the Supreme Council from holding plenary meetings. Not mentioned in this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'd like you to wait. Wait, give me two words. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, don't scream, please. I'll tell you what. Wait, don't scream, please. Don't scream, please. Don't shout, everyone will be able to speak now. I am. Let the Head know more, and then please let everyone express their position. Dear colleagues, for two years we worked in this room so that the law would still be one for all. There are two ways to move forward: by law or by political purpose. I see what's going on in the hall today. And if there's a desire to go differently than the law, it's the right of national MPs. I won't disturb anyone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, I'll finish. I won't convince anyone. Everyone in this room is an adult, intelligent person. If you want to change the Chief of the Supreme Council, I said I won't delay this process. We got the letters right away, we gave them away. Yesterday, David Georgievic’s application to initiate the procedure was received, and it was immediately launched according to the Rules. But I don't think that's good enough for all of us: you need it fast and you need it good. Okay, you can do whatever you want in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] But what I want to say to everyone is, for me, the job is nothing, it's a tool. It's a tool. Look, without a job, I'll be able to implement everything we promised in 2019. And I'm sure there's enough people in this room to do that in the future. I know 29th and 76th and 77th. If you don't want to go to law school, no one's gonna force you to go to law school, except for the law sooner or later. But I can't handle this, I have a conflict of interest. I'm forced to hand him over to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u34	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] We continue to consider the matter. He envisages discussing and voting proposals to remove the chairman from the plenary session. They are carried out immediately after this proposal has been made. That's why I'm putting a motion for a vote: to consider this issue with a reduced procedure -- with regard to exclusion. Please support and vote. [[11:43:23]] For 230 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Please register: two, two, against, to discuss this issue. It's done for now. Who will speak from the authors of the initiative? Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u35	Good afternoon. How much time? Two minutes? Two minutes, please. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting 04.10.2021, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkovi, was not in compliance with the requirements of part four of article 73 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with his refusal to vote on the Conciliation Council's proposal for a plenary meeting scheduled for October 5-8, 2021, submitted by our faction of the political party "Serve of the People". We believe that the actions outlined by the Head of the Supreme Council, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, have ignored the right of MPs to make proposals to the weekly agenda of plenary meetings, which is a gross violation of the Ukrainian Rules. The parliamentary faction of the political party "The Servant of the People", the MPs "Trust" and "For the Future", based on part two of article 29 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the gross violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council by the chairman of the plenary session, is proposing the removal of the presiding officer from plenary sessions for two plenary days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u36	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. We signed up for the performance. The National Deputy of Ukraine Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, faction of the Political Party Voice, is invited to attend. Please. Alexander Ustinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, we hear words in this room right now: violation of the Rules, conflict of interest, although, frankly, in the last two years and in the last two years, perhaps from what I remember, I have been very closely watching over the work of the Supreme Council, such violations have occurred almost every day. This was violated by past speakers, and this was violated by Mr. Razumkov. I also want to say about the conflict of interest, which, unfortunately, Mr. Razumkov is now not noticing with his colleague the second and the exposé of the Voice faction. But I'm addressing everyone right now. Now, let's not play the spikeriad or have a circus at the Supreme Council. Because on the one hand, they're trying to put the Rules through their knees right now, on the other hand, we see that instead of saying clearly when there's a vote on the speaker, if there's no one holding their chair and giving the Supreme Council a decision, we see that everyone is being hanged, the whole Supreme Council. And on the one hand, we see that they want to use the Rules to take down the speaker faster. On the other hand, Mr. Speaker does not give a clear answer when there will be a report from the Court of Auditors, when his report will be and when we will be able to know when the vote will take place. So I'm asking you not to support this initiative right now, because we understand that this is going to be a knee fold. But I very much ask the speaker of the Supreme Council now to go to the hall and say, are you ready to put your release to the vote on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u38	With motive, a replica, if you don't mind. Let me tell you, the Rules clearly define when and what is going on. Secondly, the speaker, even if he wanted to, couldn't put the vote on. And now you're going to define, if you vote, if you put it into the agenda, everything will follow the Rules. Once again, I don't hold on to a chair, unlike many.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u39	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u40	"You can do anything," says the Chief of the Supreme Council. That's not true, "servants," you can't do anything. You can only do what is stated in the Rules. And now there's a crime going on here. After all, article 29 of the Rules states that a presiding officer can be removed only if he today grossly violates the Rules of the Supreme Council. We heard about October 4th, today's October 5th. Dear colleagues, you are still living in Truscavec. Overdrinking or sniffing? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, my friends, but it's actually happening here today, today is the funeral of democracy. Today the "servants" are here killing democracy because they're here today not breaking Reasonable. We're the only faction that didn't vote for this speaker who brought this whole party here. We voted against it. But really now why is this whole spikeriad going on? Only because Banks, which already has 100 percent of their Henprocurorate, has their D.B.I., put their anti-corruption bodies there, do they still need their allowance for a hundred percent of the Supreme Council's chief. Here's what's going on. In order that neither the Rules nor the Constitution may exist. And that's why "European solidarity" doesn't appeal to "servants" today. They don't live in Ukraine, they live on envelopes at the expense of Ukrainians. We appeal to the people who brought them. Remember how you said that if they broke the law, you would be able to endure them. And now you don't have any tools. Freedom of speech is violated here. Today, journalists who tried to film the investigation were beaten. Today, any information about Wagnerians is blocked on the TV channels. And the chairman of this commission promised us to continue to investigate violently. Call Zelensky immediately, he's confessed to a state crime. And you're all here to bury democracy, you're all ruining parliamentaryism. And it's actually a crime. You are breaking the law every day, and you are rapidly returning to the time of Yanukovich. You know, Zelensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u41	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u42	Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to Mr. Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u43	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u44	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished our viewers! I want to remind you that today we are not just looking at the Head of the Supreme Council to take away. This is your first number on the political party's "Serial of the People" to go to the election and get this majority. This time. One second. What do we do today for half a day? Questions of exclusion. Why aren't we dealing with socio-economic development, COVID and other things? This is question number one in the country that needs to be addressed. Now essentially what you have to say. I want to point out that our faction will not support all these anti-parliamentary things, because you are actually turning the Supreme Council into a branch of the President's Office, killing parliamentaryism and destroying the spirit and word of the law. Why Bad Brains? It turns out he didn't support the anti-constitutional sanctions for independent information channels so they wouldn't tell. And tomorrow, what's going to happen against the Guardian, against the Washington Post? Who are you going to impose sanctions against tomorrow? Against the European Court of Human Rights, who eliminated all these things? So I insist that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should deal with urgent socio-economic problems rather than address the skin issues of the President's Office, which are trying to extend whether it's Zelenski or Jermak or his deputies or others. We will not support and call on fellow MPs. What are you doing? Do not vote for these shameful things. And then you're going to look people in the eye, and then you're going to look at one of the MPs, and then you're going to look people in the eye. Why do you vote for such shameful things? I call on all factions and MPs not to support this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Dmitry Sergiyovich Kostuk, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u46	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We've been chosen by the people to discuss drafts in this room, to think about how to change our country for the better, not to spit from this rostrum to the MPs who sit in the front lines of parliament, talking about all the nonsense that you sound. It seems to me that some Ukrainian deputies have been training here all their lives to participate in child labor as they speak in the Supreme Council. We've all been called "green men," "green buttons," "servants" (continuously), "green men's servants." To me, this is an insult. I am not a servant of Vladimir Zelensky. I'd like to go to Peter Dustock's Block. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us what you call Petra Alexiyovich, if he started his political career in Victor Medvedchuk's party, and became Ukraine's national deputy for the first time since Victor Medvedchuk's party SDPU(o)? Do you call him a servant of the Medvedchuk? I'm curious to hear that. And here's the logic, and it's hard for me to disagree with you. Because, you know, how did Victor Medvedchuk become an oligarch, get medians, billions of dollars? He was informed that the government had given up the Samara-West pipeline. Strategic oil production, which runs throughout Ukraine. Finally, Medvedchuk gained control of 40 percent of the diesel market in Ukraine. These are the billions that went to buy media assets. How did this happen? In one day, the judge of the Raven Court gave this leadership, for which the state had been tried for 10 years. Then the army helped: The Ministry bought 400 million dollars from the government, gave up money to get old Euro-2 fuel from the pipe so that Medvedchuk could run it to work and earn billions of dollars, and buy TV channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u47	Thank you, Dmitri Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, who else does? Replica, Peter Alexeiovich Prashenko Who else wants it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u48	Dishonorable servants of Zelensky! [[B in m in s a l in]] We must serve Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, as we did for five years when we rescued Ukraine from the Russian invasion! And you stole money from private bank depositors! They stole money from the budget and prevented us from defending the state! Now. Now you're raping Parliament! Now you're raping the state! Now you're depriving the national MPs for whom millions have voted, the right to vote. You lead the country to a dictatorship such as Yanukovich, Lukashenko, Putina. And you'll end up just like Yanukovich. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u49	We've finished the discussion, I understand. Yeah, who? "The opposition platform" was on. Helen Constantine and then we go to the vote. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've been performing. Coltunovich was speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Let's just calm down a little bit, because we look a little bit, frankly, in front of our international partners, before the media, we're a little bit of a little bit. I don't even want to compare it to anyone. You know, today is basically a simple procedural decision. And a procedural decision under the Rules. And it's not just a mother's word, it's a law. It's a law that we all have to live and work here. And it's very simple -- that if there's a violation of the Speaker of Parliament at today's Supreme Council meeting, it's not a violation on the Conciliation Council. Therefore, if there is really a warning regarding the conduct of today’s meeting, of course everyone has the right to ask and vote the matter. Remember, though, that there are deeper things behind him because one violation is followed by another and a major breach. Remember how you now vote. Because tomorrow you're going to have to make other decisions. From such precise arguments, there are major failures from certain minor failures. Keep this in mind, and use wisdom. The leadership of the "Serve of the People" faction, I address you, you wise men, do it wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. That's why I'm putting to the vote, I'm putting to the vote the proposal of the MP's "Serve of the People", the MP's "Trust", the MP's "For the Future" group to remove the presiding speaker from the plenary session of Dmitry Alexanderovich from holding plenary meetings for two plenary days. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:58:00]] For 240 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, it's 11:59, I'm calling it a 12:30 break. At 12:30, we meet in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, we continue to work with you. Now, as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has said, we are moving on to the following issues of order. But a statement just came in, signed by two factions, the EC faction and the Voice faction, pursuant to article 29 of the Rules, to remove me, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich, as chairman. Since I can't handle this question, I'm handing over the word to Olenia Constantineni. First, we, as always, vote on the simplified procedure. The initiators. Two in, two in. The outcome of the decision follows the order of the day that we have agreed. Thank you. Please, Olena Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u53	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's all take our seats, nothing strange, you see, it doesn't happen, everything has its boomerang. So there's been an application to remove the First Vice-Speaker from today's session. So if you'd like to sign up for a discussion, we'll do it in a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[12:40:09]] For 211 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, let's sign up for a discussion: two in favour, two in favor. Author, please. Toncharenko, please, the author of the decision, the author who made the proposal. Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u54	Thank you. How wonderful we have a presiding officer, I think I should stop at her. Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is another thing like the Supreme Council Rules. I understand that some people want to turn it into toilet paper on Bank Street, print our Rules in rolls, and hang it in some offices -- the President's Office, the President's Office, and they'll enjoy it separately. And I want to remind you, article 29 of the Supreme Council Rules says that we didn't really have anything to remove Razumkov for, because there was a violation that he allowed as chairman, and there was no violation today. Unfortunately, Mr. Stefanchuk has already committed a violation. Mr. Ruslan, contrary to the Rules, you have begun to hold meetings after the chairman has been completely removed in an unregulatory manner. This is a direct violation of the Supreme Council Rules. So please, my friends, vote and support, don't be afraid. I know those who didn't vote, those who abstained, those who voted against it, I know you're being called now from the President's Office. I know you're scared. The "minister of the people" wasn't enough votes, the groups had to pick up, and now the new name is "for the future without a Razumkov." We understand that. But don't, don't kill Parliamentarianism, it's the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic with First Secretary Vova Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u55	Please, Jaroslav Železniak, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, our meeting is more and more like a famous TV show called Goretz, where there's only one left in the end, looks like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u57	One.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u58	One. Thank you. Helen Constantine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, why did we put this issue on the agenda today? Since there are 29 articles of the Rules, it makes clear when it is possible to remove a presiding officer if not. Unfortunately, today, I don't know whether I was telling you the faction's leadership or not, but everyone was aware that it was impossible to remove Mr. Razumkov from holding a 29 - article session; he didn't do anything wrong today. Maybe some of you didn't like the way he greeted someone on their birthday at the beginning of the day, but, I know there were no more complaints about him conducting the meeting. However, without any justification, you have not been shown a document on which article 29 was signed and you have put the matter to a vote and you have made the decision you have made. Dear friends! I've talked to many of you personally about both the political situation and this particular vote. What is the problem? Once we break the law once, there is no longer a fuse left for the next time. I don't know what the vote is going to be in the future and I don't even know who's going to be in the next call to sit on these same chairs and make decisions like you and me or our kids are going to live in this country. But that's what the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations were designed to do, is the Law of Ukraine. Which we may not like, but this is the Law of Ukraine and we must do it. I'm asking you to think about it. Do we want to continue to work as long as we have left in this calling by law? Do we want to go, as sorry as it sounds in this room many times already -- on the street? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, two against, please. Please, National Deputy Fedienko Alexander, People's Servant faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Dmitri Kostuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u61	Please, Dmitri Costuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, we will continue. The honourable factions that are about to scream and interrupt me when you talk about President Vladimir Zelensky's massive decline in the rating of President Vladimir Zelensky there by one-and-a-half percent, remember that in 2014, we elected the fifth President of Ukraine, who won 54 percent of the votes in the first round -- that was unprecedented. I voted myself, and I had great hopes that the President would be able to fulfill his promises. What went on? When you talk about Mr. Vladimir Zelensky's offshores, mention 2012. Remember, in 2012, President Five was in the company of the regionals, the minister of the economy, in principle, logically. At the time, the whole business was trying to get the money out of Ukraine, because it was dangerous to keep it here, they could have put the business down with such ministers. Then, when the new president was elected, there were fighting in the east, and on the second day after the Italian Cauldron, the fifth president took his money to the offshore. And as you continue to serve the oligarchs, you continue to serve the oligarchs. The same notorious oil product "Samara – Western direction" is from the gold of Victor Medvedchuk. How did he get it? In the 15th year, the judge of the Raven Court, Gudzenko, who was then the fifth president, wanted to be promoted, handed over this pipeline to Transnefti, which quickly reselled the company under Medvedchuku's control. The Antimonopoly Committee agreed to the sale. In the 16th year, as I said, I bought a fire extinguisher, helping the oil pipeline run into work. All the power in the country at that time was one person. He was President, he had a majority in the Supreme Council, and he didn't have 250 votes. This majority was greater because two factions and more than 300 votes decided on the country’s fate. So it was decided that they had created a new oligarch. And when we voted in favour of the Oligarchs Act, there were two factions that voted against it. Two factions of members that are oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u63	Roman Costenko, Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u64	Please hand over Sergei Rachmannin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u65	Sergey Rachmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u66	Thank you, Olena Constantine. When the so-called dictatorial laws were voted out, before this vote, I, knowing many of those who then pushed, did not press the button, but raised my hand, I tried to convince these people not to do so, explaining that they actually started the self-elimination mechanism by this vote. I'm not a very good molar, but it actually worked. Because there are certain things that will sooner or later fall back not only on the reputation of those who violate the law, the Rules, the Constitution, but unfortunately, they will fall back on the state. What's happening today is called a very simple one -- the launch of a self-disposal mechanism, the parliament stops being a parliament. I realize that right now I don't touch the hearts and minds of people who, hopefully, listen to me, just as I didn't get to the hearts and brains of people who voted for dictatorial laws. Life is long and life is dangerous. If you are indifferent to your own reputation, just think about the reputation of the State and the higher legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u67	Alona Shkrum, "The Fatherland" faction. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, Parliament has opened Pandora's box. If no one has understood that yet, you will understand very quickly – this is the beginning of the end of this Parliament. When it was possible once, then the second time, then the third time -- we've been through this before. Under those columns and your hands continue to vote, and advertise with the mouths of your reckoning committee what is going on here in the hall. That's why. That's the third time I've heard the name Medvedchuck. It's the same Medvedchuk who's being accused of treason, isn't it? What, then, can be a precautionary measure in the form of a home arrest? Please tell me. Is that betrayal in one head? In which head would you say, please? Are you talking about those who were in prison? Makarenko was in prison, Didenko was in prison, an energy customs officer was in prison, Lucenko was in prison, Timoshenko was in prison. And I don't care who played the game and who played the piano at the time. Then let's tell the truth. If you want to live by the Rules, let's follow the Rules. If you have been dismissed for not violating the Speaker’s Rules, which was a clear violation of the Rules, go on. And the fact that in your own faction, you think about it, boys and girls, 1 out of 5 didn't vote for removing the speaker is not the first bell, it's the last bell. And it's all going to put history in place, and it's going to happen very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u69	Victoria Sumar, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u70	Here the "ministers of the people" invite us to an honest conversation, let's talk honestly and openly. In 2019 you were given sovereignty, and in Ukraine there was never and no one. And now the question is, what are you doing with it? You're eating each other. You want to be honest. They have also been built for you, and it is a shame to tell you about the second one that is best in Europe. For God's sake, stop! So you're screaming so no one here can say a word right now. It's your tactic, because there's a lot of you here, but there's not much you can do about it. You can't do anything without the oligarchic groups, and you know it, the ones who vote with you, they vote because you've already eaten and chewed on each other. And you're talking about delligarchization? But you can't do anything without them, you can't get out of the oligarchic canals, and here you are loudly squeezing the air with such beautiful words. Are you going to tell me about the 14th year or are you going to tell us? You know what it was like to make decisions when the Russian troops stood on the border and when this Council. Until night? You look at the statistics, you tell people about the taxes they have to pay, and you're going to be a federal fine. That way you don't pay for them. You see how much your President paid the people of Ukraine -- zero in 2014, in 2015 -- 2,000 dollars. And look at the amount of money that the powder itself pays in the budget, and how many jobs he's created. And you're gonna scream at him here? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, You're the Ukrainian Parliament, you're not turning it into a theater of absurdity, you're turning it into a circus of absurdity. And we didn't talk to my colleagues when we talked about the start of self-disposal. This is the beginning of your end. And you have no idea how fast it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u71	Please, Nestor Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u72	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Everything must be done according to the Rules and with dignity. What went first, and indeed, Dmitry Razumkov is your first number, that's your business. After the first one comes the second, the third, the fifth, and you'll all leave like dew in the sun. But I'm for dignity. Here was your speaker-proclaimed "ministers of the people," and he mentions today the second name of Medvedchuk, who is being held indefinitely under house arrest. People’s deputies are prevented from fulfilling their duties. Remember our names, we're in the hall, we'll answer you, boy. Because we look at our eyes calmly. And for SDPU, I was the first deputy there, and I voted for Peter's release as a traitor and went to Lithuania. We are responsible for our every action and word. I'll see how you do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u73	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Please, Shahov, trust group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u74	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we all know the famous Churchill Winston, who said, "He who does politics loses. He who builds lords will win." It's enough politics for the whole state of laughter today. Today people are starving, 10 million people all over the country. Today, a type of gas for people 7.62, and 35 is sold to enterprises, that's an extra cost. The type of electricity has dropped by 70 copies, and it costs 68. Next, 5.70 in Lugansk, all over the country. Is war in the Luhansk region and in Donetsk? When is it that everyone will come to terms with public policy and build a state, not just a pocket policy? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u75	Thank you. Can we proceed to the vote, dear colleagues? You're ready, aren't you? So I'm proposing to remove two plenary sessions of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please vote. [[12:56:21]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u76	Thank you, fellow Members, for your trust. That's the second time. Thank you. We continue to conduct our meetings according to the arrangements we made. Yes, of course. I'm asking Gorenouk, please. People's MP, Gorenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u77	Congratulations, Your Honor! When I voted in favour of the temporary removal of the Supreme Council Head, I did not have a voting system. I'm asking you to count my vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u78	And a similar statement came from the National Deputy of Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Michaelovna. She's also asking me to count the pro vote because the button didn't work. But, guys, we can't count it, but I'm just informing my colleague. Dear colleagues, as we discussed at the meeting in the Head of the Supreme Council, as he spoke here, we are moving on to the next question. This is a decision to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council the question of the resignation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules, it shall be accepted at a plenary meeting the following day of the submission of such a proposal. And at the same time, the Supreme Council is tasking the Court of Auditors to carry out a financial audit of the execution of the Supreme Council's funds in the current year. Dear colleagues, you know that there was a proposal yesterday for 175 people's deputies from Ukraine -- I've already entered into the question, and I apologize for recalling the Chief of the Supreme Council from office. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:58:36]] For 236 Decision taken. I give the floor to one of the initiators of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kornyenka Alexandro Sergiyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u79	The honourable colleagues, in line with article 46 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, are acts of the Supreme Council, as well as procedural and other decisions. In accordance with part four of article 76 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we propose to refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of the day of the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as Head of the Supreme Council of Razumkov Dmitr Aleksandrovič. On 04.10.2021, a letter was submitted to support 175 Ukrainian National Deputies for a motion to withdraw the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office that, in accordance with paragraph 2 of part two and part four of article 76 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the question of the resignation of the Head of the Supreme Council in plenary session, followed by such a proposal, i.e. today, was considered by Parliament. We propose, in accordance with part one of the first article 77 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, that consideration be given to recalling the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office on 07.10.2021, this is the day after tomorrow. And according to part four of article 76 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors is to carry out a financial audit of the execution of the Treasury of the Supreme Council in the current year. It's consistent with the part. Yeah, that's what's gonna happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u80	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, as we voted in the summary procedure, please register: two in favour, two in opposition to the discussion of this issue, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy of road Mikolaiovich, a faction of the political party. You're handing over the pottiary, aren't you? Please, Póturaev. Mikita Ruslanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, you and I have seen a lot of cynicism, manipulation, distortions in this Parliament. But really, I don't think we've ever seen one of these before. I don't think the Ukrainian people have seen that either. I want to remind everyone who is now angry with political ecstasy in defense, as it were, of the rule that the oldest democracy in general is British, the strongest democracy is American. What will the people who established modern democracy say? In the United States there is a saying: There is no will above the will of Congress. We're parliament, my friends. We have the right, given to us by the people of Ukraine, to make the decisions we consider necessary. We can change the Rules with you. We can make decisions within the framework of the Rules that we consider appropriate. When you have a majority, you will not have a spoiler, then you will be able to make your own decisions. Today, the will of the Ukrainian Parliament is formed by the faction "Serve of the People". It's true, it's political, take it. We have a mandate of popular trust in making decisions that we consider useful for the country. Democracy is not under threat, it is under our protection, I assure you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u82	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich. Irina Volodymyr, of course, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u83	Greensky has another unfulfilled dream. He wants to meet Putin alone. And since Putin doesn't want to date him yet, Zelensky decided to give Putin a gift on his birthday. October 7th, Putin's birthday. Both Zelenski and "ministers" are giving a rape of the Ukrainian Parliament on a platter. Because now we see the funerals of parliamentaryism. You know, Brainy reaps what he sows now, because he brought you all: all the dog vendors, the rapists, the girls who ordered here in the session room, that's all his responsibility, along with Greeny. Green here told us how he took off his touch. The same is true of the people from whom the inviolability has been removed, and they are not in prison, unlike those who have been imprisoned by the Greens. And he put Riff there, and he put Pavlovsky there, who, you know, worked for the Ukrainian fleet. But what's very important, my friends, when Zelensky, as such a product of the oligarch plot, went to the polls and promised the people that he was a simple people, that he was a Golobordko, instead of him a vice-speaker and his voice was made by Razumkov. And who knows if there would be 73 percent if this benevolent minder hadn't gone on all the airs, told us what new faces they have, what new rules they have, what young ones they are, what non-corruptionists they are, what non-offshores they are. What Has Really Turned Out? The worst sin is Zelensky lied to his constituents. He's a green barrage, he's an offshore president, he didn't pay taxes, he paid taxes. [[B in m in s a l in]] And now they're yelling at me: shut your mouth! We heard that from Yanukovic, and Putin tells his parliament. They want to shut down the opposition! All who speak out against Zelensky are beaten at this rostrum. You're beating up journalists who are investigating. You forbid freedom of speech. And now you want to put 100 percent of your speaker. There is a conflict of interest, there is a violation of the Rules now. And after this vote, we demand a 29th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u84	Let's move on, dear fellows. The word is given to the national MP Mamyan Suto Cholojevich, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u85	Please hand over the German.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u86	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u87	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to start by saying that coalition is not a source of power. I would like you to listen to the article of the Constitution that the source of authority is the people and the people must decide. That's the first one. Second, we've created quasi-judgment from the Supreme Council today. Please tell me, who laid the groundwork for the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council was released? Who laid the groundwork for constitutional and legal reasons? They're gone. This is a hotel of whose: Is it a bank or a group? Do you want me to give you the qualifications? This qualification has a criminal tendency, it's criminal, it's usurpation of power, it's usurpation of power. And if. that you may understand what this is about. You find the norm if we've moved on to amorphic normism because of the tasks set by the ideological front or group, do it, but it'll be on your conscience. And the last. If we are a legislative body, we should always understand that a mirror of procedures is like a mirror of the soul, and procedures predict both 29th and 75th and 77th, I will not count them. You've been trampled on the Rules, you've been trampling on the Constitution. This is a crime, a crime, first of all, before his conscience and before he saw the status of the Ukrainian national deputy. You've come to serve the people, the servants of the people. You, not like worms come out of the leaves, some here today twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u88	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u89	My fellow Members, we are now considering a rather important question, who will continue to abide by the Rules, who will continue to ensure parliamentaryism and who will continue to put to the vote, including those laws that are necessary for our state. Like it or not, there's a book like this, and it was handed out to all of us, along with the badge and the oath of a national MP, the name of its Rules. Each of us, as the author of the legislative initiative, had two years to change it. We did it on the sensory button, on the vote, we did it on the electronic paperwork. But each of us had the full right to change it, and we live by it. And now, by violating the Rules, by violating the main norms, you want to change the Head of Parliament. Many of you and Dmitr Smart know him a lot longer than I do, many of you have seen him during the election campaign in the districts, many of you and him have been on airs where we debated and elected voters. And, yes, I confirm, your score was better because you were the same team back then. And now what you want to do is first of all a violation, probably not even the Rules, even though you're doing it, but a violation of some kind of order and some kind of political responsibility. Dear colleagues, it is up to you now whether Parliament will remain a parliament or become a department of the President's Office. I hope you have the wisdom to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to make a statement? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, a proposal came from 175 national deputies of Ukraine to call off the Supreme Council of Ukraine as head of the Supreme Council. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, parts of the fourth article 76 and parts of the first article 77 of the Rules, I put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the question of the resignation of the Head of the Supreme Council and to consider the matter in the terms proposed by the rapporteur by the national deputy, Mr. Kornyenk Aleksandr Sergiyjovich, and to authorize the Court of Auditors to carry out a financial audit of the implementation of the funds of the Supreme Council in the current year. Ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[13:11:31]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Show me the factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Break? Dear colleagues, another statement from two factions of the EC and the Voice about removing me as chairman. Let's keep going. I'm handing in Olenia Constantineni. You know the drill, Olena Constantine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u91	I'm going to be a star, to tell you the truth. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who will report from the authors? There's a brief procedure under the Rules. Who Will Answer? Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna. There's still a reduced procedure, you can't vote on it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u92	Dear Mrs. Helen, you know, the star in our country is one of Vladimir Zelensky, who has been implementing his dream today and on all the pages of all the world's media as the "offshore green president," he's there shining and talking about his equipment in 2012 and 2014. And now there's a gross violation of the Rules when a member of the opposition faction, a co-head of the opposition faction, speaks out of violation of the gross Rules and some knownames whose names may not be remembered by their wives, they're not so bright, they're trying to stop me from speaking here. I want to say the next thing. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, article 29 of the Rules is now in gross violation of the law. You can cancel your decision regarding the Head of the Supreme Council of Razumkov and convert 200 percent of your speaker, Stefanchuk. But Stefanchuk now has a conflict of interest. Secondly, according to the Rules, every Ukrainian national MP needs to receive from the Court of Auditors two days before the vote an appropriate report from the Court of Auditors, as well as a report from the Head of Parliament. The only reason, according to the Rules, that you can remove the Head of the Supreme Council and remove him from office is because of his disgruntled work. Our faction considers the work of reason to be unsatisfactory because it has brought all of you and these hammocks who are now at the rostrum obstructing the co-head of European Solidarity, you know, representing our position, it now bears its responsibility. But we want to receive his report from Reasonable in two days, as required by the Rules. We'd like to get a report from the Accounting Office on the operation of this team. And all of a sudden, there's corruption? We know how you work, we want to learn it. And today, I remind you, not the 4th, as the leaders of the "Serve of the People" faction told us, but the 5th of October. So in two days we have to get two documents, each national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u93	Dear National Deputies! Please, national MPs, sign up: two for, two for, and no to discuss the matter, please. Please, National Deputy Calchenko, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! You know, there's a lot of criticism in this room about the Rules. I think that this is in vain because it is possible to live and work successfully for the benefit of the State and the people if they are not abused. That precedent, which is now being created, is once again a statement, I think it doesn't fit into either letter or context or in the spirit of the current Rules. In particular, calls for compliance with the Rules and Integrity are strangely heard from people who ignore the requirements of the Rules, the Committees Act, and, contrary to the law, hold the office of the head of the faction at the same time and the head of the committee, and here they call for respect. Dear colleagues, I think this precedent is the second to file a statement of withdrawal, it must be the last. Otherwise, Parliament will really start. It's only going to start with those who do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u95	Andrew Osadchuk, Voice faction, please. Mr. Makarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u96	You know, you're convinced that we're voting politically, but not everyone right now has the Rules, not everyone read them carefully, but they only hear about the Rules being told by the speakers. I want to remind you that there are 76 articles called "The Call of the Head of the Supreme Council from office." It is written that the Head of the Supreme Council may at any time be called off from office at his request -- no such request has been made, and may also be called off in connection with his unsatisfactory work in this office. The statement, which was read, stated, did not say a word about the unsatisfying work of the head in that office. You've all praised him for two years. We criticized him, you praised him. I would like to remind you that part of the fifth of this article says, "The head of the Supreme Council is preparing a report on his work and on the execution of the funds of the Supreme Council in the current year. This report and the conclusion of the Court of Auditors shall be submitted to the People's Deputies no later than two days before the plenary meeting." When do you want to listen to this question about subtraction? The day after tomorrow? And when do you have two days before tomorrow? Is this today? When is today? In the morning or in the evening? Now we're talking about what's going on in the political vote. Now what we're talking about here is that instead of referring to the Rules, everyone is talking only about relevance. But once again, this kind of desirability of breaking the Rules leads to the usurpation of power, leads to despondency. Such work leads to authoritarian authority. Please, all of us who vote in this regard must understand that he is taking part in this unpleasant story that will be ashamed of in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Natalia Adjective, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u98	Please pass the speed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u99	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u100	Sparkle.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u101	Skork. Mr. Skork, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! You know, I'm not the biggest expert on the Rules in this room. I'm not the most experienced MP. For me, it's just a second call, but I have something to compare. I think so. On the other hand, I was repeatedly asked by journalists: What do you think is the achievement of today’s authority, if objectively? I believe that in many ways, thanks to the acting Supreme Council head, Mr. Razumkov, we have managed to reduce the degree of civil opposition both in society and in the hall. I think your first year was exactly the same. But what's happening right now is in the hall. You know, these walls have seen different things -- both betrayals and very different things. But what I want to do is turn to the distinguished MPs, where the majors go. I understand when you vote for the budget, because you have to come to your districts, they give you the appropriate funds, the authorities. But what you're doing right now is meanness, meanness in relation to your colleague, breaking the Rules. I'm speaking to a man who has mentioned Mr. Medvedchuk several times, it's an abomination to mention Medvedchuk, realizing that he can't use his ability to reply. Dear colleagues, I want you to understand that on January 16th or so, the Kharkiv agreements that you like to mention are going to be such children's smiles. You will definitely be responsible for breaking the Rules, for usurping power. My colleague Mr. Volosyn told you that what was written about these papers was written by the Guardian. You have to understand that this is the view of the Western world. The Guardian would not write if it were not, for example, balanced with the authorities of the United States and other Western countries. I'm talking to you, think about what you're doing, because you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u103	Andrew Lopushanski, European Solidarity. Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u104	I'm very ashamed of something today. Now it was a shame for the head of the regulatory committee to come out and say that this is the second time that the question of the removal of the chairman is not answered, it is revealed, neither the spirit nor the letter of the law. That's an interesting story. Why are you setting it up? Why does he put all of this under consideration? In order to remove it? There are such strange things happening here today. The Rules clearly state one simple thing that can be removed from the chairman if he violates the Rules. You're digging, along with a majority of people, you're taking away Razumkov, who didn't violate anything, and then you're assigning it to lead Stefanchuku by humiliating him because he has a direct conflict of interest. He is conducting a meeting to remove Reasonable precisely with a violation of the Rules. What are you doing next? You're insinuating that you can't say a word because you're actually filming Reasonable for that. Do you understand? You don't like it when opposition comes out here talking about offshores, your tax laws, and a lot of other things. You need everyone to keep their mouth shut so that there can be no other readings, all the amendments that are unnecessary, all the readings, so that the green buttons are comfortable. And so that all the mouths can be closed. You don't like it when Heratchenka says something here? You're running out here, spitting on her, trying to pull this Geo Leros guy out of the rostrum. It's very simple called-- it's called the censor that you're setting up. Because no more canal will tell us about any offshore Greens. And it's the only place left to talk about it. And now that you're saying that you're breaking the system, you're not breaking the system, you're breaking Ukraine, you're setting the dictatorship. And in Ukraine, dictatorship has never done anything good, and those who have tried to establish it have not ended well. It will be with you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u105	Is there anyone else who would like to speak? We discussed this question. Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote a two-day suspension motion today for the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyyovich. Please vote. [[13:24:01]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u106	Thank you, dear fellows, once again for your trust. We'll keep working. Dear colleagues, from the Corneyenko procedure, Alexander Sergiyovich. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, we are in a situation that we say in the morning that we have no agenda, because yesterday the Conciliator has not confirmed anything. So the Trust Group and I now propose to take a break to discuss this issue briefly with the heads of other factions. And we, on our side with the Trust Group, seem to have initiated the Conciliation Council on an urgent, urgent basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Are you taking a break? Yes. Please. Break. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-05-m0.u109	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! We ended our conversation with the heads of factions and groups. What were we talking about? There was a meeting at the request of two. Three. Or two? Two factions and groups. The situation is that, given that the Conciliation Council, as stated at the outset today, did not establish the order of the day that we were to consider today, and we discussed this at a meeting of factions and groups leaders, it was made by three factions and groups. They called on the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to immediately gather the Conciliation Council and determine the order of the day that we will be going through. Given that the agenda has not been approved, I, as chairman, have been forced to declare closed the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hope that the Conciliation Council will be held, and in the near future an appropriate agenda will be adopted, and then we will move on to the agenda. And we will continue our work, hopefully tomorrow, in accordance with the Rules. Thank you, Your Honor.
