ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare to register. The registration takes place by clicking on the green button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:03:12]] There are 245 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of three of our colleagues: Galina Igorovna Yanchenko, Artema Yuriovich Kunaev and Andrija Viktorovich Motovilovitsa. [[Applause]] From myself, I wish you health, success, and success once again! Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Who will act? Vadim Zinovovich, are you? Vadim Zinović Rabinovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians, allow me to congratulate you on the coming great holiday of May 9th. On this day, which has always been celebrated with great respect by our parents and grandfathers, "the son's stake" was killed in world fascism, tens of millions of people have given their lives to conquer this disgraceful phenomenon. The land of Ukraine is rich in the blood of those who liberated it from the fascists. Surely in many, even those in this room, there are relatives who have fallen to bring this great victory near. This day we have in all parts of Ukraine, in our cities and villages to honor the memory of the real heroes of Ukraine, because we are the descendants of the conquerors, and on this very day we have to think, each of us who has a conscience and a heart, to think about how it might have happened that the streets of our cities are being marched by the supporters of the SS divisions. How did it happen that in Ukraine, which contributed the greatest or most to the victory of the Soviet army, the monuments to the liberator heroes and the monuments to the murderers who betrayed Ukraine? How did it happen that a country that wins fascism is transformed into a country that is defeated? Our parents and grandparents were not afraid to look into death’s eyes for victory. What are we gonna do, get scared and keep our mouths shut? No, it won't. In Ukraine, millions and millions of people are true patriots who know exactly who wins, who wins, who wins, who is a real hero, and who are traitors who shot in the back. Here's my father's portrait. He went through the war with a tank man. His own brother died in '42. My mother's brother died in '43. Along with me today at this rostrum, my companions with portraits of their relatives who fought against fascism, fought for Ukrainian land, and portraits of the outstanding military commanders of this war. These are pictures in millions of Ukrainian families, in millions. We in Ukraine are the absolute majority, and we have to demonstrate it on May 9th, so that everyone can see -- no one is forgotten, nothing is forgotten. Finally, some remember. Remember, the enemy will be broken, and victory will follow us. I beg of you, Mr President. I asked you to honor the minute of silence of the dead in this great war. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u3	Please sit down. Dear colleagues, another statement has been made for a break with a replacement for the performance. A potter's boy? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u4	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, today we will be discussing the appointment of an energy minister. We lived a year without a legitimate minister of energy, there were several attempts. And now our number five attempt, the next attempt, is Mr. Galuschenka being offered to us, Vice President of Energoatum. Actually, I'm surprised at the fiction that's in our country. We have a very interesting social elevator. If you fail to do your job, get a promotion. We have Energoatoma, which was in 2019, it's given billions of dollars in revenue, billions in 2020, deep down, in 2021. He sells his electricity for a penny to the oligarchs, below his worth and, of course, becomes a waste despite the heroic work of our atomizers. And then what do we do? Then one of the leaders is the ministers. That's right, just where we can go. There's little, you know, that's a lot that President Zelensky is telling us about delligarchization. As you know, in any investigation, it's important not to go out on your own. Here we see that we are offered an absolute oligarch man, an oligarch of the Derkach for the Minister of Energy of Ukraine. It is not enough that the oligarch, a man who is directly referred to as an agent of Russian influence by the U.S. government and by American intelligence, is a derkach graduate of the KGB High School in Moscow. And today, we put such a person in a key area that is in a state that provides energy security for the state. Guys, you've got to be kidding me! You're defending national security, aren't you? Are you just being robbed by the National Security and Defense Council? This is a matter of national security, when we need to protect Ukrainian energy, stop buying finally Russian and Belarusian electricity, finally figure out what's going on with foreign investors in clean energy. Instead, we're being asked to put an oligarch man, a Russian agent man, a man who's completely failed in his job, as the minister responsible for all the energy of the state. Friends, this once again shows us that we don't have a minister of health or a prime minister, no one. We have one person in all positions: Vladimir Zelensky, who personally puts all these boys and girls together for one reason only, so that they can be absolutely obedient to him, the expertise and patriotism have no meaning. Think before it's too late, no Russian agents at the head of the Energy Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u5	One last statement today. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, statement for a break with a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u6	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable deputies. Yesterday, you know, the Law on Changes to the Earth Code was passed. Clearly, patriotism is spoken of very loudly from this rostrum, the entire rostrum has been spat out, but I want to say that they voted in favour of the Earth Code and betrayed all the interests of Ukraine. And when it comes to oligarchs and oligarchs, we have to look at who in this room are the leaders of the oligarchy factions in order to criticize this phenomenon in general. I can tell you one important thing that our team will definitely not leave yesterday's Earth Code unresponsive. And I want to be heard by Ukrainians who are ready to fight this. It is clear to everyone that yesterday it was accepted: Ukraine no longer affects its agricultural land, Ukraine's citizens, through several articles of the Earth Code, will be hamstrung to take over the land, including land in constant use, the land in permanent possession of the inheritance. Now the people who owned this, and these are farmers, simple peasants, they're going to have to buy it all at market price. I am no longer talking about selling especially valuable land, that no one will control the quality of agricultural land use, and much more. But I'll tell you what, our team knows how to fight, so the first thing we're going to do is definitely a referendum. We know that they're going to get in the way right now, we know all the technologies that are being prepared to just take and "wrong" the referendum, but we won't let you do that. The other one. In the coming days, I will personally present to the President through the office of sealing, and I will hand him the exhibition that the articles of the Constitution were violated when they adopted the Law on the Earth Code. And he, as the guarantor of the Constitution, will know, and I will have the signature of his office, that he knows that dozens of articles of the Constitution have been violated in this Code of Earth. And sooner or later, he will be responsible for everything he has done in the country with his gang. And the third thing I want to say. We will certainly address the Earth Code to the Constitutional Court, and we will do everything we can to ensure that the Constitutional Court is born in Ukraine, which protects national interests and the Constitution. And then it will be clear how the laws on the sale of agricultural land are adopted and what, and who will be responsible. We won't let you down. The fact that you have a vast majority and absolute power today, we already had one who thought it would save him, it wouldn't save you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. But before that, a moment's notice. Look, dear fellows, today we have two extra meetings besides the plenary. In the second consecutive national MPs proposed 19 questions, but there was this suggestion to include these, because we finished 2194 yesterday, to include these issues in today's session, those scheduled for this week. And so we're going to reduce our next session from 19 to 9 questions, and we're going to be able to finish our work a little early. Is there no objection? None. Let's move on to the agenda. From the 12th to the 13th recess and the next session, we start at 4:00. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the deputy factions and the political party "The Servant of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Mr. Galuchchen Valeriyovich as Minister of Energy of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. The following minutes are proposed: presentation of the candidate by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, up to 2 minutes; presentation of the candidate for the Ukrainian Energy Minister, up to 5 minutes; questions to the candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies, up to 9 minutes; reports from the committee, up to 2 minutes; and statements from the deputy factions and groups, up to 21 minutes (3 minutes for each faction and group). After this vote. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. Let us turn to this question. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor to represent the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Ukrainians, good afternoon! According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the first article, and part of article 114, part four, of the Constitution, Ukraine has the right to a coalition of deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation of the appointment of Galuchchenek Herman Valériovich as Minister of Energy of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u9	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. The candidate for Minister of Energy of Ukraine Herman Valeriyovich Galuchenko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u10	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Mr. Prime Minister! Actually, I didn't want to start with that, but I have to answer to the distinguished national MP right away. Energy is the second quarter in a row. All of these stories about my relationship with the oligarhat, particularly with the Derkach, are an absolute fairy, which is distributed to the company’s informational discredit. So let's stop all of these hysterias. If there's a question and there's a desire to prove it, please there's a lot of possibilities for today to show Mr. Pickleman's order for my appointment at Energoatom, find him, show the court's decision, where I'm enrolled as a representative, as Mr. Derkach's attorney, find him. So, I'm sorry to start with, but I didn't want to talk about it, but I've got to get to the show. Thank you, first of all, for the opportunity to present your position. To this day, domestic energy is in a very difficult situation. Large debts, energy market imbalances, incomplete integration of energy systems from the EU, high energy efficiency of Ukrainian industrial enterprises, fluctuations in prices for gas in winter, shadow market for fuel-oil materials, long-standing coal problems. External threats to energy also require extraordinary efforts by diplomacy, including the North Stream-2, integration of Ukrainian markets and electricity into the EU, and diversification and supply of energy. In addition to this, we have very important challenges associated with the climate change in the global economy, the key element of which is the rejection of polluting fuel. And the coming time is really the most critical. These problems cannot be solved by point changes in legislation or by the sole operational activity of the ministry. So any minister who's ever been before this or who's coming in the future, he can't do anything without interacting with the Supreme Council. While it's not just an interaction with a profile committee, it's all about almost all the committees that are key -- the economy, the budget, the external affairs. It's supposed to be a consolidated joint effort. It's exactly my primary job as minister that I see in this -- to work with you and work together on those critical issues and those critical problems that have arisen today in the field of energy. At which point this interaction cannot or should not be limited to Kiev alone. We need to involve all areas, regions, communities, and even the smallest market subjects. So the Ministry will need your help not only as legislators, but as people who understand the situation better in districts and in regions that communicate directly with people and understand what is happening in places. The energy market should not be a zero-sum game when one generation survives at the expense of the destruction of another, when a generation's desire to earn kills industry, and speculation with prices takes the last money out of the pockets of average citizens. Electricity and gas tariffs should not be increased, but rather should be sought for ways to reduce them for vulnerable populations. And in fact, there are possibilities and resources, and where you can do it by market methods, not by administrative methods, but by market methods. That's what's inside the markets. Another major challenge for our country is the issue of energy security and appropriate integration into ENTSO-E. This is far more than a separation from the former energy system. And it's my job to put this project into practice. The issue of PSOs is important because it distorts the price for the final consumer. And in addition to market prices, it's also important to have a permanent system and climate change. Since atoms and hydropower in the European Union are likened to VDE, they certainly need to be the basis of transformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u11	Thank you. Time's up. Please sign up for the information provided by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. President! I have a question: how are the ministries going to get out of the TEC situation, which -- a few dozen of them in Ukraine -- increased huge debts? And is there a view of the Ministry that these TECs are passed on to, for example, municipal property? Have you studied this question of what you can answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u13	That's a big problem. There are several paths that are already being worked out. In particular, it is an appropriate bill for the repayment of debt in the field at all. And there's a wish, as far as I know, that Naftogazu would take these TECs to management to solve the issue. So I actually think it's also a possible option. And we will consider both within the framework of the law and within the possibility of transfer to the administration of the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u14	Wrenchek Irina Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear candidate! Wrenchek Irina Andriyevna. Please tell the "Serial of the People" faction in general is ready to support you. But this means that we also take responsibility for your work. As you can see, society expects us to take decisive steps in a series of measures that will lead to or lead to a reduction in tariffs for all kinds: gas, heating, electricity – December 1, 68. People are waiting for us to go down to 90, people are waiting for us to take real steps. I have a question: are you prepared to take responsibility for everything that will happen to the tariff policy in Ukraine? Please tell me and calm down the citizens today: we will work to make tariffs go down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u16	I'm ready to take responsibility. And we're going to work, we already have the proper work that I'm going to introduce later. See, yesterday the old PSO model was extended for 2 months, so we'll do a new model from July 1st, which will take these positions into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u17	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u18	Please give it to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u19	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u20	Dear Herman Valeriyovich, we understand in which situation you will have to lead the Ministry of Energy in view of the fact that we are in a critical state, and the ministries are almost non-existent, there is only, as analysts rightly point out, separate functions, because the "Hydrogenation" belongs directly to Kabmin, the "Centrenergo" belongs to the Reserve Fund, the "Ukrenergo" under Minfin, the NCREKP is engaged in, also stretching out some of its inequitable functions by carrying out technical policies. As you know, there was an initiative by the "For the Future" MPs to vote last week on the return of the tax on electricity for the first 100 kilowatts that bothers our people so much. I understand that the average consumption, and you know that in Ukraine, it's going to be one hundred and sixty-eight kilowatts. Is it time to put that tax rate back on electricity? What position do you have in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. This is actually a question that is related to the new PSO model, in which it is possible to look at options depending on the quantity, the volume of consumption in terms of tariff cuts. So just for example, if we take last year, this is the official data of the NCRECR, 30 percent of the population consumes less than 75 kilowatts. Accordingly, we understand that this is a population category that needs the support of the state. So all of these models are going to work out within exactly what I said, a new model of PSO.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u22	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u23	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Mr. Galuschenko, we have no doubt that Ukraine needs energy independence, and this is related to the very powerful work of a powerful ministry with a powerful patriotic minister who will introduce Ukrainian energy policy, not foreign policy or other oligarchic groups. You've rightly pointed out that in Ukraine today, in fact, energy poverty, when 30 percent of the population consumes up to 75 kilowatt-hours per month. It's energy poverty. Do you have a plan to restore the full powers of the Ministry of Energy Management? Do we understand that today tariff policy is being implemented by the so-called independent regulator of the NCRECR, who has failed this reform? Are you prepared to assume responsibility for fair tariff policy in Ukraine today? You'll have our support then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Yeah, I want to say again that I'm really ready, so I'm actually here and I'm here now, that I'm ready to take this responsibility with regard to tariff policy. And with regard to the powers of the Ministry, surely the Ministry should shape this policy and have the importance of its implementation. Of course, we will work in this direction too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u25	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u27	Geo Leros Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u28	Nice try, Dmitri Alexanderovich. So I have a question. The President's office, handing out your biography to the National Deputies, indicated in it that you are not involved in any criminal conduct. Instead, the Shevchenkov Police Department of Kiev is investigating criminal conduct based on the illegal possession by you and your colleague Hartmouth of the funds of Energoatum, which Cotin unlawfully gave you. As a lawyer, you should have realized that you were getting a bonus illegally. So I have a question for you: when are you going to return the money illegally to Energoatum?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u29	Thank you for asking, Mr. Geo. It's actually news to me that I'm in a criminal case. If this is, it's probably going to happen, as a lawyer, I'm telling you, some criminal acts and investigative actions, someone was going to call me, let me know. If that's the case, let's talk. As to when and what I return, let's wait for the outcome of the case and the verdict, if that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u30	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u31	I have a question for you. What's your personal position on the recovery of 30km? Even in the most difficult times for Ukraine, this benefit was not cancelled. That's the same question I asked you on the faction. Would you like to hear your position as to what you will do about the benefit, its restoration, or its non-recovery? Your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u32	Look, I know this question will be discussed today on the Council, including. I support this consideration. Of course, we need to work on the mechanisms. If we're talking about restoring this benefit, and I'm probably more inclined to do it, but we need to find out when it's done. Again, perhaps depending on the quantity of consumption. We need to see. But in general, this is also, as they say, our pain of Energoatom as a company that operates four atomic stations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u33	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u34	Thank you. My dear candidate, Herman Valeriovich, I have two questions for you. First. I still remember when the Minister of Energy was Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, and the gas of national production was used for the population and for heat - power companies, in fact, at a price of 5 times lower than today’s currency equivalent, and almost 14 times lower in the bracelet. And the second question. Are you planning to return the benefits to electricity consumers within 100 kilowatts, as it was last year. Is there any hope that the national gas will be given to the people of Ukraine for consumption, and the electricity will be restored? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. I'm going to start with the second one, and that's what we're talking about right now with regard to reconstruction. In fact, yes, we're working on a new PSO to find a mechanism. Now it's not even a question of whether we're returning these 100 kilowatts old, the question is that we're going to find a mechanism to reduce the cost of certain types of population. And it might not even be 100 kilowatts, it might be a more dramatic reduction solution. Regarding mining. Of course, look, that's the question again of how gas prices are formed in us -- that's another question. And now there's an annual price of 7.96, before that it was 6.99 regulated by the government, after we let go, the market kept that price. Now it's getting bigger. So again, the question of mining. Of course, the increase and normal output, and unfortunately today, we see a trend towards a decline in national output, it certainly has an impact on the formation of this price and the corresponding decrease in this price. And the question is, of course, we need to look at this very seriously. And if I'm not mistaken, somewhere yesterday or yesterday, even Naftogaz said that it wouldn't really be necessary to buy, import gas this year, which is enough gas, taking into account the production and the gas that's in the vaults. It's an important thing, and we're going to do everything we can to increase this quantity of production, and it's going to affect prices accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u36	Thank you, Herman Valeriovich. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Committee on Energy and Housing, Herus Andry Mihajlovich, is invited to the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u37	Good morning, dear fellows! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, at the meeting of the Committee yesterday, was discussed the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Prime Minister of Energy, of the appointment of Galuchenko Herman Valeriyovich, Minister of Energy. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of Galuchenko Herman Valeriyovich as Minister of Energy of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u38	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Wack Hennaday Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u39	I give the word Kota Andrija Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u40	Keith Andrey Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u41	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Andrew Keith, trust MP, Jewish Strystyn. Ukraine has been a leading country in the energy field for many years, not only in Post - Soviet space but also throughout Europe. Unfortunately, the absence of systemic policy over the years of the independence of our Ukraine has led us to completely balance our energy market. For the irresponsibility of government officials both in the past and in the previous summons, our average consumer is now paying for the population of Ukraine and paying for the entire energy sector in Ukraine. A quarterly change of ministers, I stress, the quarterly change of ministers, which has become a system in our Council, unfortunately, leads us to have not full responsibility but full responsibility. And I place this responsibility on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is incapable of organizing work and every three months gives us a new minister for approval or c.o. Minister. So far, there is no clear program of emergency resolution as an emergency, which, in my view, I have not heard from either the government or the current candidate. First of all, I want to understand that somehow we're building the only energy space is Europe, if we don't have any international agreement and the Energy Bridge project so far, and that we can't export electricity except for the Burstin Island from our AES to Europe. Without that, we have the only energy space with Europe -- it's like saying that we're going with you from Lviv to Cracow's car, where there's no roads between Lviv and Cracow, and that's a shame. Next. Atomic energy, it's a supplemental locomotive of everything that's going on in our energy supply in Ukraine. I've never heard of a program before, or in any way should we make a special fund for the restoration of nuclear energy in Ukraine from the calculations that are due to pay for nuclear power stations. There is no such foundation. The most painful question for us right now is the question of green energy. Instead of becoming an example of innovation in our country and of innovation technology, we have turned green energy into an outhouse where tariffs change not by the day, but by the hour. At the end of the day, I want to thank Sergei Vitrenk for his beginning at work. And I want the current candidate to be well aware and ask him if he is aware of all the responsibility that lies with him for the state of the country's energy state. Because Trust Group only trusts once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u42	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Danube, Sergio Volodymyrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Coltunovich to our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u44	Colleague Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished candidate for the Energy Minister! I'd like to draw your attention and colleagues that today we're not just choosing the Energy Minister, we're today choosing fate and strategic priorities for the development of a large sector, which is actually the basis of the national economy. We're going to have a few specific proposals for you, for example, for the gas sector. My colleague Nestor Schufrich has already said that at one point in time the price of own gas was 725 dollars, a little less than $100, that's the price of 2013. It is vital that the gas that is being extracted in Ukraine comes to the needs of the population. That's the first one. Another important point is the gas strategy as a whole. Last year we recovered less than 20 billion cubic meters of gas. This is not enough for the overall needs of the national economy, the real economy and other things. We are interested in the figures on the increase in the amount of gas production in Ukraine. We are interested in the specific price of gas, which will go to the needs of the population first and for industrial objects. We're also interested in you finally moving away from these disgraceful schemes in the virtual reverse of gas and electricity so that we can leave Dunsseldorf Plus, Rotterdam Plus, and so on, this is a disgraceful history of your predecessors, and so that tariff formation and pricing in the energy market are transparent. What else do I want to pay attention to? Today is a critical situation in the coal sector: the coal sector has a debt of nearly 2 billion dollars in wages. This is a debt that is not paid by your predecessor today. That is why we need and require that this issue be settled in general throughout the country. Another very important moment is the demonopolization of the energy market. Not even the monopolies, but the oligarchs have settled on energy streams, they get surpluses on green energy, and this should not be allowed in a modern free market country. I can't help but mention the electricity tariffs and the gas prices. Then, when the customs cost of the gas goes down to $209 for almost a thousand cubes, we have an increase in the price of gas to 10,000 138 dollars. I urge you not to do the things your predecessors did that you didn't see separately, separate VAT on that delivery and the whole price of gas. We encourage you to lower this price by a total gas, which today is a lot of places that consists of 7.99 plus 1 bracelet 79 and plus VAT for delivery. That doesn't have to be the only transparent payment. And 90 copies for electricity. Our faction gives you one month and it's willing to support you to settle all these issues, and so that Ukrainian citizens get decent tariffs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u46	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Ustinovy Alexandri Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u48	Geo Leros, please. Geo Bagratovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u49	Dear Ukrainians, this person should not sit in a chair as a candidate for the power minister, he should be in prison for treason. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau is investigating nearly ten criminal cases involving the management of Energoatum, including Mr. Galuchenko. Under only one contract, he sold electricity and damaged the state by $2.4 billion. He's a corrupter. You're appointing a corruption minister. Half of the Cabinet of Ministers are corrupters who are talking to "watchers" and criminal authorities. Almost the entire Office of the President of Corruption, and now you're assigning another corruption to protect Greensky. Each one of you who vote for this bastard will be the same corruption, shame on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u50	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zabrodski Mikhail Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u51	Mr. Speaker, please pass the word to Sofia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u52	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u53	It's Thursday before Easter. The Clean Thursday needs to be cleansed, and so the truth needs to be told. The Society, I welcome you, today you're putting on the Energy Minister the man who broke the atom and destroyed the Ukrainian energy balance. This is the person who led Energoate to a loss of over 4.5 billion dollars, and before that, Energoat was profitable. This is his hand in the business -- it depends on the import of power from Rosatoma. It is also known that Galuchenko is a man of the Razor, the same one that the United States considers to be an agent of the Kremlin. So this is how you might want to break up a good relationship with the United States? I'm going to remind you that this is the third coming of the Racer team to the Energoatum control. But the consequences were critical every time -- the return to Moscow. This winter was not the first time that the energy balance was lifted and Ukraine moved on to import a large amount of energy from the aggressor country, particularly from the new Belarusian AES. And now I'm going to say that not only are we opening up our energy system to the energy of the aggressor country, we're putting our closest partner, the Republic of Lithuania, under attack. This is where President Lithuania asked us not to buy energy from Belarus’s AES, not to buy Moscow’s electricity. So this is how you want to break up our good relationship with Lithuania? But I'm also going to remind you of Galuchenko's work in the days of Yanukovich in the "Energoatom" team. And as a result of this team's work, Ukraine gave up American nuclear fuel and returned to Moscow. For this, a diversion was organized at the South Ukrainian AES, where for five years the American fuel Westinghouse was successfully tested, and then again we became addicted to the Moscow Federation in the atomic sphere. And by the way, it was Midan and the Dignity Revolution that stopped this dependence on Moscow. It was then that U.S. fuel saved Ukraine when Moscow launched the vortex shutoffs. And now you're going back to Galoshenko. It's scary to think about when he goes up. And now, "servants," you promised people tariff cuts. So why is this business where Vice President Galuchenko sells electricity to oligarchs at twice the market price, and Ukrainian citizens have to pay much more. You don't think about Ukraine, you don't care, you just feel like you want to do money laundering. But today, a clean Thursday may be a good time to get rid of Moscow’s agency forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u54	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u55	Well, yes, today is really a clean Thursday, I welcome everyone! And I think that a certain faction of the Pure Thursday should not lie, but start every performance, for example, with the words "I hold my hand and hug." Then everything will be perfectly normal and everything will be in place. And I want to tell you, you know, cynicism is already very simple. I want to ask you, who destroyed our energy supply, who destroyed our gas balance in the country? I want to remind you that in 2014, the energy plant that worked for 17 years was completely destroyed, which gave people the normal cost of electricity, and I want to remind them that the collapse started when electricity increased for people 7 times after the so-called market reform to order from the outside. Have a conscience! In other words, I want to say a little bit, but I can't. And then I want to remind you by gas: by 2014, we had normal Ukrainian gas going to the Ukrainians for 23 years of independence, at a normal price of 30 percent. Since the 14th year, they've squandered it, they've taken all the gas supply into total corruption, they've been washing it with billions of dollars. People were given 11 times higher tariffs for gas, 15 times higher for heat. I want to ask, who's responsible for this? When you talk about the power failure, look at yourself in the mirror. That's the first one. The other one. I want to say that today, what I see is that the Ukrainian state no longer controls its energy sector because of what this policy has been doing over the past five years and is now continuing. And so the first task that we have today is to bring all the energy systems back under the control of the state. Today, they are under the control of fraudsters and where billions of devices are washed. I can tell you that today is our goal to close down the corruption around Energoatom, around NAC Naftogazu, where the middlemen are now. They've already declared billions of us. Imagine some companies where only horns and hooves, table and chair, billions declare. And that's why yesterday we had a meeting with this candidate for the minister, and what I asked him was, is he ready to destroy the external power management, run that gang that's been in there since 2014, and run the power grid. He said that he had that will, and I am glad that he has that will, because otherwise the country will not survive. And so by protecting the country's national interests, hoping that it will do something in this direction that it's not one of those who sells the country for grants, we're going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u56	Fraud. Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u57	Dear friends, there was a great celebration in Ukraine last night: we got rid of the extremely "effective" leader of Naftogazu, for which the Cabinet of Ministers was greatly grateful. These 7 years of extraordinary efficiency, which resulted in a 30 billion dollar delta in 2020, with a plan of 11.5 billion profits, Naftogaz received 19 billion losses. I hope that this trend in Ukrainian energy in changing so-called effective personnel will continue. And I hope that the candidate we're seeing here today will be able to correct that image of chaos in the energy that we're living in, I think, all 30 years. And since 2014, so many schemes have been created that, unfortunately, three predecessors have failed. I think we can give Herman Valeriovich a few tasks, and I think we have the same right as we do in Parliament. The first is to balance Ukraine's energy system. The second is to put state energy-generating companies in order, to finally develop an energy strategy by 2050. And a few errands that I think he does know, but we will still remind and control this process: to promote the integration of the Ukrainian energy system into the European energy system, to store and increase jobs as much as possible in the energy sector, and finally to bring about a system in the coal sector. And the last is hope. I very much hope, Herman Valeriyovich, that you will have the spirit, the strength and the patience to carry out all these tasks. And Parliament will strengthen you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u58	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, we are finally able to obtain an energy minister over the last year and a half. Because lately we've only had so-called o.s. for which we've continued to be able to be so. Today, the energy sector is in a terrible crisis. And you know, Herman Valeriyovich, you have a difficult task of correcting this situation and making us really an independent state. Make sure we don't have to buy electricity in Russia and Belarus, because we can provide ourselves and do the same to export our own electricity. We know what a terrible situation is happening in all state energy companies. We're hoping that you'll start not just by doing some personnel decisions, but you'll start by doing a full audit of Energoatum, Ukrhydro, all the mines, all the state energy companies, and first of all NAC Naftogazu, which in Ukraine has become a separate state in the state. We hope that the problem of miners will finally be solved because every month or every three months they hear them strike because they don't get a salary. We just have to get this over with. People need to understand why they go to work. We really hope that you can actually fulfill your promises and lower the population tariffs on all the energy that you can return to the first 100 kilowatts. Because, as you said yourself in this rostrum, we have 30 percent of the population consumes not more than 75 kilowatts a month. We hope that you will continue to work with parliamentarians after your election, not forget us, as all ministers do very often. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" certainly supports your candidacy, wishes you success in this position, the strength and strength of working for the Ukrainian people, not the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion and performances is exhausted. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, and let's move to voting for the minister. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Galuchenko Herman Valeriyovich as Minister of Energy of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:58:23]] For 305 Decision taken. The score's good. Congratulations. Mr. Minister, please go to the rostrum. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to rule on the consequences of the decision we've made. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Energy of Ukraine Herman Valerijovich Galuchenko is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u61	Thank you. Thank you so much for your support, distinguished national deputies. I'm always open to you with any questions at any time. An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Galuchenko Herman Valeriyovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u62	Hello! Please take a seat in the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. For your consideration, you will be given a draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (project registration number 4690-8). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There's no need to discuss it, so I'd like you to take your seats, dear colleagues. Then I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats because we need to vote. I put to the vote a draft Order amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 4690-8). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:01:32]] For 288
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u64	For 288. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. The next question is a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. No discussion? I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire project. Please support and vote. [[11:02:09]] For 332 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the right of citizens to have access to civil registration in connection with the entrants of local communities (registration number 4382). Is Discussment Needed? Please, we need to make a decision on this issue by means of a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:02:56]] For 282 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Larissa Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, residents of villages in tergroza, whose centres are the cities of regional importance, are forced to go to the DRACS City Department for basic services (registration services for birth, death and marriage), which is almost 1 million people who have joined the communities of cities of district importance – almost half of the population of Ukraine. This is due to the fact that Ukraine’s legislation has a wide range of services and powers in the field of civil registration. This bill will allow equal access for all citizens in the community to administrative services such as national registration of birth, marriage and death. It should be noted that the state is almost two or three years late with the adoption of this bill. This bill 4382 needs to be adopted immediately, because if the average village dweller could only take two steps to his village council to register either the death of his loved one, or the gateway to a loved one, then he needs to get over the pandemic 30-40 kilometers to the administrative center of the newly formed community to register in the units of the CNAP. So if there are such powers, if we adopt this bill, it will make it easier for all of us to integrate services into the CNAPs in the old districts, and such quick services as I have pointed out, after birth and death, will be delivered quickly and as close to the citizens as possible. The Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, as well as the Association of Ukrainian Cities, as the Association of OTG supports the bill. Because this bill is very concise and simple, one word is taken away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u66	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Fries Igor Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u67	Good afternoon, dear fellows! At the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill. And, you know, we didn't have much discussion, because everyone understands that decentralization, it should not just be in the head, it should exist in action and allow our citizens to receive additional services from the state registration that they've now become limited. Taking into account the fact that united communities have joined the large cities of district importance, which have been created, we have thus made it impossible to continue the procedure for the state registration of death and birth to take place in their homes, people should travel 30 to 40 kilometers and register the given registrations and receive the documents. Taking this into account and having received positive conclusions from a number of scientific institutions, the Supreme Council's Law Institute, the expert conclusions of the Ministry of Finance, the budgetary committee, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy decided to recommend the bill as a basis for adoption. But at the same time, he's really small, literally two words taken out of his text. So in the district centers, in the cities of regional importance to which the united territorial communities join, we want to give these communities the opportunity to register. Therefore, if supported by the Supreme Council, members of the Committee of Legal Policy ask the Supreme Council, including the decision to adopt the bill on both the basis and the whole. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two against the provosts of the MP factions and groups. Belenjuk Jan Vensanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u69	Please pass the word to George Mazuras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u70	Georgiy Georgievich Mazurasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u71	George Mazurashu, 203rd constituency, Cherniewec district, Servant of the People. Of course, I support this bill, and I'm even surprised I couldn't be among the signatories, because it's a technical bill. And on this day, on Clean Thursday, I would like to support some of the previous speakers who have addressed the previous government team that is represented here, although not widely, but represented in our session room and with respect to the voters who have chosen them. I want to be correct, but I want to remind you that in the previous period it has been done very negative and harmful enough for our country and for our fellow citizens. And I'm sorry, we have to have a little bit of conscience, at least, so that some representatives of this political force don't go out to the rostrum regularly, and not tell or teach the country how to live. Because what you've done is negative for the state is hard to appreciate and probably some of you should not be here, but somewhere where you implied that the previous candidate for the minister would be. And just on Clean Thursday, some of you may need to get out of the hall to clean up the Parliament a little bit, even on this day. And I want to look at a technical problem like what we have on a regular basis, and I have, personally and in our colleagues, a system, through technical nuances, that takes away voices, "stolen," I say, voices. My colleagues and I have introduced an appropriate bill, just like the one that Larissa Bilozer introduced, and I ask you to pay attention to this and to adopt this bill as soon as possible, which will allow just every national MP to protect his voice in case of technical problems. Thank you for your attention. With a holiday!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u72	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u73	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I give the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u74	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize to you that people in newly formed communities with cities of district importance can no longer register marriage, death and birth with their home. And it should be borne in mind that the RACS area is quite a lot of services, the birth rate in Ukraine is about 400,000 people and the number of deaths is over 580,000 in 2019. And this refers to this need for government registration, this service being the most needed. So once again, I want to emphasize to you that the project is very concise, it's a minimal change, and there's this discriminatory condition for cities of regional importance, and now the communities that have become large, where villages have joined. So once again, I would like to ask you to accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u76	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u78	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u79	The Roman Lozino faction of the Voice. Dear Ukrainians, for a very long time everyone was waiting for affordable and quality services, finally this bill in the hall. And I want to remind everyone that a loud and well-known word like decentralization is not an empty piece of junk, and it's not just for pear concepts. One of the key pillars of decentralization is quality services. And it's very important that people forget what it's like to get on a bus or a bus in the morning, get help, get paper, and then go home all night, lose a whole day. This must go back in time, and all Ukrainians must forget about this discomfort and these problems associated with the great bureaucratic procedures. Services such as marriage registration, death and birth are among the most popular and most needed services. I want to thank Larissa Bilozer, the head of the profiling subcommittee, and all the international partners who worked, including, on this initiative. Unfortunately, it is too late, unfortunately, to form new communities, but people still face a number of problems. Regrettably, the ancient districts and old age, which are called upon to resolve the daily affairs of the people, will not be selective, will not be chosen by these people, but will be appointed, and this is a major blow to the services, including administrative services. But in order to avoid this problem and to prevent bureaucratic procedures for services, a bill on the choice of old age has been registered by me and my fellow Members. We insist that the appointed elders be restored so that they too can help to provide services and draw them closer to others. This bill clearly needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u80	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u82	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u83	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Head, I would ask you very much on behalf of our faction that in the case of a national MP speaking on a non-topic basis, you have made observations not only to the opposition's representatives but also to the authorities. You've just seen a completely disgraceful performance by "The Servants of the People," which insulted half the hall. And now essentially the bill. We also support this bill and we do not object to voting on it in general, because it is indeed urgent. And so it happened to us that the cities of district importance, they're somehow falling out of the radars, what's called, and they're discriminated against in the legislative plan. You remember the problem that we faced literally two years ago when, by assigning such choices as additional elections, you forgot about the cities of regional importance, and then a separate law had to deal with this very issue in a very special way. This time, too, already those communities that, through additional elections, have joined the cities of regional importance that are discriminated against with regard to the possibility of access to registration, respectively, procedures, including birth registration, death, and so forth. In view of these circumstances, we will be supportive. And these kinds of bills, they need to be adopted at once in general, they open up the opportunity for our citizens to exercise their rights as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. We're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u84	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This is the law that I hope will unite the entire hall today. I would like to emphasize once again that opposition always makes decisions, regardless of who the initiator is, who will serve for the benefit of our citizens. The Ukrainians need this law, it really simplifies their lives. So our faction will support it. And once again, the principle of responsibility, regardless of whose initiative it is, should dominate this room. Our faction is voting for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u86	No, it's not. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. After this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u87	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. The drafters propose to adopt decisions today not only on the basis of the basis but also in general. In principle, I agree with them, and the Fatherland faction will support such an offer. We need to enable the state registration of civilian acts to those who live in the villages, to be more loyal, to be part of a united territorial community and to be able to carry out such acts in the village. This time. Secondly, I would like to say that in conditions of decentralization, we need to draw attention now not only to acts of civil status, but to all processes that are taking place in the country. Because if we see how there's a subsidy for education, I don't understand the mechanics at all. So we see strikes from education, especially in those areas where classes are overcrowded, on this educational subsidy. We must immediately correct this shameful situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u88	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u89	Colleagues, just think about how many people today if we hadn't voted on this bill, we would have suffered. 188 cities of district importance do not have the opportunity to register a certificate of death, birth, and marriage. And since the coopling of these town councils, the village councils that are next door, that's a million Ukrainians. Of course, our MPs are going to vote in favour in the first, and I'm going to really support it in general. This is what makes the lives of ordinary people a better way of making simple but very needed decisions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Dear colleagues, the committee has made a decision on the basis. But during the presentation, you heard a committee representative's proposal -- on the basis and in general. As far as I know, no one's denying it. Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the right of citizens to have access to civil registration in connection with the entrenching of local communities (registration No. 4382). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:19:38]] For 344 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the right of citizens to have access to state registration of civil status acts in connection with the entrenching of territorial communities (registration No. 4382). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:20:15.]] For 343 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council. No discussion? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 5377). Ready to vote? Please support and vote, 5377. [[11:21:12]] For 276 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster to increase the level of pension provision for individual categories of persons (registration number 4555, 4555-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:21:56]] For 269 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill is designed by the Ministry of Social Policy and initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers and it provides. The first is to settle the issue of the conditions for payment of an additional health pension and the monthly compensation to families for the loss of a breadwinner as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, taking into account the Constitutional Court decision (since 17 July 2018) No. 6. It is also envisaged that the issue of calculating wages from the minimum wage of five times established by the law on 1 January of the corresponding year should be settled when pensions are granted to persons participating in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. This is also due to the adoption of the Constitutional Court’s decision of 25 April 2020 No. 1. With the adoption of the bill, it will establish a level playing field for all participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, for which a causal link between disability and the Chernobyl disaster has been established. I emphasize: both military and civilian. Thus, as of January 1, 22, the pension will grow to almost 40,000 pensioners and will become an average: for both the disability groups -- over 16,000 bracelets, the second the disability groups -- almost 13,000 bracelets, and the third the disability groups -- almost 9,000 bracelets. Since the implementation of the draft act provides for additional expenditures for the 22nd year of 1.2 billion dollars, the corresponding expenditure has to be set in the budget for the 22nd year. Therefore, taking into account the requirements of the Budget Code, these changes will take effect the following financial year. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u92	Thank you. The word is given to the author of the alternative bill to the Ukrainian national deputy Gnatenka Valeri Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! I've been very familiar with this draft law that I've drawn up by the government, and I want to support in general its social orientation and its desire to restore social justice for the Chernobylites, who have since 2014 been completely unjust and cynically deprived of legal social guarantees and benefits. It is clear to all of us that it is necessary to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, which, as early as July 2018, fully restored social guarantees and benefits, including pension insurance, which have been removed from Chernobyl by scandalous Act No. 76 since December 2014. However, I find it totally unacceptable that in my bill, the Cabinet of Ministers is using some selective approach to the affected Chernobylites and proposing that they be reinstated in part. It's not just social cynicism, it's legal nonsensence -- an attempt by the government only partially, only in separate places to start implementing the stated decision of the Constitutional Court. I want to remind you that in April of this year, four days ago, we celebrated the 35th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, but so far this support of the liquidator heroes has remained only in words. And we all swore to support them in these actions, which were recently. And over the past seven years, the Chernobyl social protection system has been brought to a critical point and, let's say, has become a disgrace. The Chernobylians have earned their health, hard work, great courage and courage and the right to adequate social support and pensions, and therefore the direct duty of the State to provide them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u94	Thank you. The word is given for a report from the committee of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to Galina Mikolayivna Trelyakowi. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u95	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, discussed the draft bill at his meeting on April 26. But we also want to point out that on April 7th, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine came out, and it has to be implemented in legislation for three months. In order to implement the Constitutional Court's decision of 7 April of this year, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster on the increase in the level of pension insurance of individual categories (registration number 4555), submitted by the Cabinet, to adopt, on the basis of the commission of the Committee, the proposed bill and to submit a second reading to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the first part of article 116 of the Rules, in particular by amending article 54 of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of April 7, and, inter alia, the Final Position. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Let's write it down, let's be willing to discuss this important bill. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u97	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u98	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officials, respected Ukrainians! Unfortunately, since January 1, 2015, a number of benefits, guarantees, and compensations have been abolished for people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. At the same time, we've already heard that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its 18th year decision, restored these guarantees, but within almost three years these decisions continue somehow to fail. No decision has been taken to finance the social protection programs that remain unchanged year after year. The State should also guarantee free medical care for liquidators and prevent the closure of health facilities that are now under threat of closure and that serve the Chernobylites themselves. We had a pretty good Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens, but imagine, over the years, he's been through a lot of changes, and he's only been in the direction of reducing the benefits. So I met, like, most of the majors, on the 26th, or did they celebrate the 26th of April in their own district. And I want to tell you that the problems, they're all the same everywhere, on Winnitzkin, on Volin, on Zacarpat: Black people want a fair view of the state and a restoration of the principle of social justice. The bill put forward for consideration is one step towards restoring this social justice. And that's a step the Trust Group will support. And people who have saved the lives and health of people in Ukraine and around the world have to have decent social benefits. The "Trust" MP will support this bill and call on a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u100	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u101	Please pass Alexia to the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u102	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u103	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Guys, this week and this day, it's a clean Thursday, and we've got something good to do. And here's the adoption of this law -- it's a really good thing and it's the right thing to do. It is not a mere tribute to memory, but it is a help to those who, many years ago, saved mankind again, not just Ukraine, but all mankind from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And these are real heroes. And today we can finally make decisions that will help these families, these families, and concrete things to determine that an additional pension for health - related harm and monthly compensation to families who have lost a breadwinner as a result of the Chernobyl disaster is paid in full, regardless of wages, pensions, or other income. Because there's been calculated, something else taken, and of course it's completely wrong. That all of this is based on the fivefold minimum wage that is established in the State. And that, of course, is the right thing to do. And it's just a little bit of what we have to do for the people who, years ago, really saved mankind. So let's all go together, "European Solidarity," of course, supports this bill, let's all vote together, let's testify that we understand that the Chernobyls need help, that this assistance is completely earned by them. And let's remind the world that back then, 35 years ago, it was the Ukrainians who first got up and protected the world from a terrible disaster. Today, our task is to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u104	Thank you. The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, our faction has an alternative law regarding the support of our Chernobyls, but we will vote on both laws. In this case, it's not who's the author, it's who's the answer. But let's be honest with ourselves. In 2013, the Protection Fund, the Chernobyl Foundation, the Chernobyl Disaster Protection Fund, amounted to 2 billion 620 million dollars. And, notice, that was on course 8. Today, 2 billion 570 on course, unfortunately 28, and that's a hard truth. That is, for 7 years, people did not raise what the State owed. There was a decision by the Constitutional Court. In part, this decision will be settled – payments are being raised to our neighborhoods. But I think the state has the opportunity to raise them to the 2013 level right now. And why are we waiting for the budget in 2022? Don't our niggers deserve to do this this year? Today, a number of laws of budget change will be voted on. The budget changes were voted on yesterday. Why can't we? Sorry, yesterday. Why can't we vote again this year on budget changes and correct terrible injustice? Today, we thank our black people, we honor their memory, so let us give them the money they deserve, and they have given up their health and lives in order for us to sit in this room. By upholding this law, our faction urges us to review the budget not next year, but this year to give money to our black people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u106	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Batenek Taras Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u108	Irina Miroslavna, please. And I'll ask. Then there'll be three more speeches from the motive, and we'll go to the vote. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the Group for the Future will of course support this important social bill. Why will we support him? Because we, as senior officials, know the real problems of the Chernobyl pensioners. We see how for many years, and specifically since 2015, social injustice has been committed against all black people. At that time, the government of Yatzenuk had all the Chernobylites turned from heroes to marginals. They were saving Ukraine and saving the world, and they were transformed, and I'm stressing social marginals. There was money for everyone: to increase pensions, to increase wages, they weren't just for black people. The Chernobylites were deprived of their pensions, the Chernobylites were deprived of their medical care, and the Chernobylites were deprived of their rehabilitation and all. So I thank the government and thank the committee for finally starting to restore social justice. This increase has to take place. And, I think it would be right, given that time resource, it's an increase to make in today's 2021. Next. I would ask the government, like our entire group of majors representing Volin, the Kyiv region, the Hmelnitsky region -- the most affected by radioactive pollution, the restoration of successive other guarantees, benefits and compensations. I'm asking you to review the legislation that deals with the nutrition of Chernobyl children in terms of expensive medical care, review all court decisions and give what our heroes deserve. They're heroes, not marginals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u110	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u111	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Colleagues! Dear representatives of the Chernobyl community, unfortunately, the authorities did little or nothing until the 35th anniversary. Bill 4555 is the only attempt to honor, in any way, a single category of Chernobyl. The committee consists of bills, initiatives by Timoshenko's team, where we propose to reinvigorate the benefits that have already been discussed today, the benefits of treatment, including abroad, if domestic medicine is unable to provide qualified assistance. And we hope that in the near future, we will be looking at these bills. About 4555. Dear colleagues, it is only the government that has attempted to implement one decision of the Constitutional Court, on the order of execution of the decision of 17 July 2018, and we demand that the government implement that decision immediately. 4555, I emphasize, is the first attempt. We will vote in favour, but in front of many new drafts on the Chernobyl community. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u112	Thank you. Arsenyuk Oleg Aleksyyyovich, then Tzabal, and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the same time, Bill 4555, which will allow to increase the amount of pension insurance for tens of thousands of pensioners from the Chernobyl disaster-killers, regardless of whether he was a military officer or a civilian. As head of the relevant subcommittee, I emphasized both during hearings and in comments to journalists that social protection and the support of the Chernobylites should not and should not depend on memorabilia, but daily and petty work. I want to thank all the working groups that participated in the drafting of this bill. This bill will be drafted and developed between the first and the second readings. But I want to thank all the participants who participated in the Chernobyl AES accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u114	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we need to support this bill, which increases social support and pensions for Chernobyl AES liquidators. But with the opportunity, I wanted to turn to another problem. That is to say, once again, this means that the Chernobyls and many other categories of citizens have not received the appropriate security they deserve. Why did this come about, and how can this be decided? Now in the last 30 years, a lot of citizens have been given special status, I'm not talking about the Chernobyls, I'm saying in general, not because they actually have them, but because they have them. And this problem needs to be solved, because the same Chernobyls, they have to, the real Chernobyls, they have to share this security with other people who actually have no bearing on it, and so they get twice as much. That's why it's a question that should be taken care of by the cosmopolitans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on increasing the level of pension provision for individual categories of citizens (registration number 4555). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:41:52]] For 340. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 4555). Please support and vote. The committee is making such an offer. [[11:42:21]] For 341 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Next question 2683, 2683-1. Here the committee proposes to re-read the first reading. Can we not discuss this? I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for a re-reading of the draft Law on the General Compulsory Remuneration of Pension Insurance (Registration No. 2683). Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because everyone just said no talking. I've already put it to a vote, please support and vote. All the colleagues said they were ready. [[11:43:17]] For 311 Decision taken. With motive? It's not a motive, it can only be a procedure. With the procedure, okay. Jujanina, Timoshenko, good.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, although it was very quickly put to the vote without discussion, I would like to stress that we are sending it back to the first, to prepare another concept. And to do that, you need to understand and discuss with the MPs what we're proposing for the first time again, and you sent it out without discussion. And by the way, Mr. Razumkov, you said that I had already put to the vote, you haven't put it to a vote yet, you've just announced it, so we had the right to discuss with which concept we're re-reading the draft law, and we didn't do it on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u118	Nina Petrovna, you don't do this on a regular basis or for the first time. Your colleagues have agreed to this, please get rid of the faction. Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u119	Mr. Head, honestly, such a rude violation of the Rules, if not for your rules, why are you doing this? Now, just without discussion, they sent for the first rereading of the introduction of an additional three percent of taxes on working people, on their wages, and then sending this tax to virtually fraud in private pension funds, which does not provide for this law, no guarantee of saving this money for people when they retire. What are you doing? You've turned Parliament into a "buttoning", you've been making completely lobbying corrupt decisions without even discussing them. What right do you have? At least people need to know that they are taxed for 3 percent of the extra wage, and then the money will be stolen by lobbyists who are already pushing the law. Don't do that again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, you know I'm not violating the Rules. This time. Two. I always go to the people's deputies with an offer, and you respond to it. When national MPs are heard and not engaged in their affairs in the hall, we will normally vote. No, there will be a discussion if no one denies or denies it. It's never been like this before, not to me. Thank you. Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I cannot agree that we do not tend to have the Supreme Council breaking the Rules. I'm afraid we just saw it. It's just flowers. For example, a few months ago, when the law was being voted out, when people were standing still, for example, there was a completely false rule that was broken by the Supreme Council in the interests of Saturn, and after the vote, it was included, once it was broken, it was incorporated and signed, and it was sent for signature. So it's a normal practice, and I'm sure after the holidays we'll give it an evaluation. But now there is actually a violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u122	I don't know the rules very well. So next time. There's no way out of the procedure, it's your political speech. I'll turn it off next time. Do you have a deal? By the Rules. Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the National Registration of Human Genome Information (registration number 4265). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:47:47]] For 263 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u123	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill is designed to improve the effectiveness of the fight against crime. One effective tool in proving the suspect's involvement in the crime is the genotyposcopy method in biological analysis, namely DNA analysis. I would like to point out that, to date, the DNA database has been operating since 2009 on the basis of Order No. 390 of the Ministry of Internal Affairs registered in Minsk. The base already contains 34,000 DNA profiles from forensics. In the 20th year, more than 300 people were installed who were involved in crimes. Ukraine is not the only country today that is developing democracy that does not have a profile law that regulates this issue. The project is proposed, and the following categories are subject to mandatory registration. Persons drawn to criminal responsibility for committing deliberate crimes against life, health, sexual freedom, and the sexual integrity of persons on whom a precautionary measure has been taken. This is the category of persons subject to compulsory medical measures. Persons convicted of committing willful crimes against life, health, sexual freedom, and sexual integrity. Unrecognised corpses, missing persons without news, close relatives disappeared without news. Taking into account the experience of the deaths in the ATO, it is proposed to establish a mechanism for the selection of biological samples of persons who voluntarily join or call for military service and military personnel and, if necessary, to provide further identification. What is the purpose of the bill? It is the establishment of persons who have committed criminal offences and the search for missing persons, the identification of unidentified bodies. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the bill in the first reading on the basis of the second reading and to work together on the points that are causing discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u124	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, every year more and more countries are starting to actively build their citizens' DNA bases and store genetic data for security purposes. In particular, the United States, Britain, Japan, Canada, and a number of other countries have already used such databases in criminal investigations. Moreover, the European Council Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as early as 2012. The purpose of this bill is to regulate the functioning of human genetics. It is worth noting that the provision of DNA will apply mainly to criminals who have been criminalized for committing deliberate crimes against life and health, serious or particularly serious crimes. That is, those who can harm society on more than one occasion. Authorized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Security Service of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine support the proposed standards. The National MPs of Ukraine supported the concept in the proposed bill and believe that the implementation of the bill will enable coordination and the efforts of law enforcement agencies in the area of crime control and social functions – the search for missing persons, the establishment of unidentified bodies and their remains. That is why the Supreme Council Committee on Law Protection decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill (under registration number 4265) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u126	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Kisse Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u127	Please pass the word to Lubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u128	A lube? Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u129	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MPs of the Party for the Future will vote and support the bill. As majors, we have repeatedly received requests for further protection of their rights. And when criminals work and live with them, they know about it, but very often the law enforcement officers cannot determine whether they have committed such a crime or not. And this is the new possibility that when criminals who have committed the most dangerous and life-threatening criminal offenses, sexual offences involving children, the criminal will think several times, knowing that his genome is already in the base, that any of his hair, even that may be left at the scene of the crime, will lead to his being found very quickly, they will stop doing that, maybe. This is such an additional preventive way that criminals do not commit wrongdoing. So it's a perfectly logical bill. You know, I often, speaking from this rostrum, draw the attention of the national deputies to the conclusion of the GNEU. I look at him. Indeed, the GNEU concludes that there is a need for further work, but all that the GNEU pays attention to can be worked out between the first and the second readings. Therefore, honourable national MPs, we urge all to vote, to support this bill. We find it absolutely right, logical, and purposeful to fight criminals in the future. Thank you. We all vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u130	The Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I would like to focus your attention on a few aspects of this bill. First. We agreed on a committee and said that we would be working on the second reading of the issue of inclusion in the DNA registry of persons who chose the precautionary measure and suspected. This should be viewed for second reading. Position one. The second position is about identifying the person and protecting personal data. I want to point out that in the DNA register, all the data is disabled, and we've really dealt with it with the doctors, with the DNA experts. According to the information in the register, it is not possible to establish the health status of the person who suffers from illness, age, and so forth, it is only possible to establish a similarity to the DNA found at the crime scene. This can confirm any genetic that works in this field. And the third is for the military. A military officer’s card, located and arriving in the ATO area, will be kept separately. Here's a map of DNA, I'm demonstrating it, it's in the special case of a military officer. And only if a person disappears, a tragedy occurs, and an unidentified corpse is found, is raised at the request of the investigating court, and it is then identified in order to compare and identify these things. Any other manipulation in this case is impossible. This is clearly confirmed and confirmed by the committee. Please support this bill. Until the second reading, we'll be able to work out any risks that will be expressed in support of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u132	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u133	Please give it to Alexander Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u134	Alexander Yuriyovna Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we are now invited to vote on a bill that will allow us to gather all the genome information, that is, all the information about DNA, under the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Now we're being told that it will be exclusively for criminals and for the National Guard military. But no one is saying that the bill stipulates that these are not the people who are condemned, they will be gathered information about them, but about the people to whom the precautionary measure will be applied. So you can be uncondemned, you can only be suspicious, you can be acquitted in court, but information about you will already be in the Ministry of Internal Affairs register. This is now one of the biggest problems. The second problem is that worldwide, these registers are not under the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but at least by the Ministry of Justice. What we are seeing right now is another possibility of expanding powers that should not be in the Ministry of Internal Affairs right now. We were also told that this would be an isolated information and that we would not be able to find out who this person is. You know, I know we can't find out about just one person right now -- it's about our militiamen beating people up on the streets. When you see a man being beaten, beaten by our national deputies, and by public activists, when you want to know who, specifically from the National Guard or the police, beat him, you will not know. Because, for example, the National Guard doesn't have numbers to identify this person by. And believe me, if you have to identify by DNA, they'll find a way to reveal your information, and by your DNA, they'll give it to those who need it. Therefore, this bill cannot be voted on precisely, it needs to be worked out, because the changes that are now being proposed to us are another extension of the powers of the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's vote now, or after a break. Are you insisting on the performance? We've just got a minute left. If we may, let us vote, Your Honor. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] After the break? Okay. The faction insists on the performance, it's written down. I'm gonna keep going. I'm not gonna take 15 minutes now. All right, then, after the break, dear colleagues. At 1:00, please don't be late. We're going to have three speeches and we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u137	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Irina Volodymyrna's character. For reasons, who else will speak? Cymbaluk, Shufrich, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the identification of missing news in the face of the ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war is indeed a matter of honour for the state. But this is a matter settled by the relevant Act on the Status of Missing Persons, which is simply not carried out by the active authority, because the second government of Greens cannot run an interagency group on the search and identification of missing missing persons. And when it comes to other aspects of this law, there are a lot of questions. Who today hinders law enforcement agencies that are billions of dollars in funding from Ukraine’s budget and have much better funding than the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to search for criminals? If speech is about removing genomes from criminals convicted of sexual crimes, that's one thing. But this bill violates the principle of innocence, the presumption of innocence, which is enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. And when the data is collected, this whole information, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and there's no legal record of how it's going to be protected, stored, not walking in the market, we're just putting millions of Ukrainians under a huge blow that can happen in this situation. When it comes to gathering and genome information about the military, in today's conditions it could actually be a disaster. I'm going to remind you of the Wagnerian case, which was "flashed" from the country's highest offices at all. Imagine that now would be an identification full of our scouts who were involved in this unique operation, all of which would be in the Russians, and the lives and health of these scouts, these special forces would be in real danger. So our faction is holding back and calling for all factions to be held back, and leaving in this bill only one rule that the corresponding genomes can already gather about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u139	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u140	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, in fact, the legal regulation of DNA databases is clearly needed, because for several years now, Ukraine's NDEC database has been operating appropriate laboratories. But the law, for me, is contradictory. First of all, when it comes to persons who have been punished, it is clear. I agree with my colleagues regarding military databases, although events under Ilowaysk, we remember for months the bodies of those who died. There is a question of the position of the Ministry of Justice. There are specific comments and references to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. Another thing, or state, first, is the legislative responsibility for the disclosure of this data and next, who will keep it. So far, it's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u141	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. And please invite the people's deputies to the hall, and we'll vote right after the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, our faction will not vote in favour of this bill. We believe that it is contrary to constitutional rights to protect personal data. I mean, frankly, Ukrainians aren't sheep to be seen here right now. It's probably just about criminals, and that's what it is right now. If DNA is found at the crime scene, the court’s approval may force the suspect to give up his DNA in order to carry out the animal. So today we have to get out of the constitutional rights of our citizens, to assume that their personal data is a personal secret and an exclusive principle of volunteering. And that's only possible for those who work for the military, the police, when it's necessary if, God forbid, you have to figure out who died. By other indications, this law is unconstitutional and we are unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Ready to vote? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the National Registration of Human Genome Information. Ready to vote? Registration number 4265. Please support and vote. [[13:09:04]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the bill (registration number 4265). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:09:36]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act on the general principles for the provision of cultural services to the population (registration number 4318) (this is second reading). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Culture on the General Principles for the Provision of Cultural Services to the Population (Registration No. 4318). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:10:32]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement (to exclude the possibility of purchasing without the use of electronic purchasing systems) (registration No. 3715). It is suggested that we consider this issue in a nutshell. Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft Law (registration number 3717). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:11:38]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on the implementation of financial and credit mechanisms for providing housing for Ukrainian citizens (registration No. 5308). Is someone going to insist on the papers? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on the introduction of a financial and credit facility for providing housing for Ukrainian citizens (Registration No. 5308). Please support and vote. [[13:12:45]] For 277 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the sale or rights to land of public and municipal property (rents) through electronic auctions (registration number 2195). Is someone going to insist on the papers? I see there's no questions. Please. Vlasenko, number six. Don't insist. Kabachenko. Don't insist. 13, Krulko. Don't insist. Is he insisting? I can't see. 13 Amendments. No, no, Kabachenko. My colleagues, I'm sorry. 13 Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u144	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We mention how we actually passed a law yesterday that will finally leave all the Ukrainians landless. The only thing in this session room is the "Fatherland" faction, which did not support that law and gave zero votes. And we think, unfortunately, that Parliament is turning into a service structure for someone's interests. This is the second law from the same compound that is to take away Ukrainians from their own land. And my amendment, which I'm asking for support for number 13, sets up safeguards for the mass purchase of Ukrainian agricultural land by foreigners through registered legal entities owned by foreign citizens and companies. This is the way you want to sell land to foreigners -- through legal entities founded by foreign companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u145	I'm betting on vote number 13. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:35]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Kabachenko, 21st. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u146	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. What is the bill about? The sale of land on electronic auctions. But on the other hand, according to an annual survey conducted by the Internet Association of Ukraine in August-September 2019, regular Internet users across Ukraine are only 21 percent of agricultural workers and only 3 percent of farmers. How can we allow you to sell land with us today, to sell leases on electronic auctions, considering that the entities that are supposed to do so have no technical ability to do so, do they have no internet? And so let's go back to our first proposal, waiting for the results of the referendum, and then just to move on to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u147	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 21 amendments, the national deputy of Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:11]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next 22nd, Kabachenko. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u148	Thank you very much. Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Continuing to discuss the topic that today in Ukraine does not have the technical capacity to conduct electronic auctions. The percentage of Internet penetration in the population section is only 58 percent for rural areas. Now we're talking about exclusively agricultural land being sold at electronic auctions. If 58 percent of the Internet is infiltrated into villages, who will provide the last 42 percent in order to provide the technical capacity to sell land through electronic auctions? I'm not asking this question right now to the head of the agrarian committee, it's just for the benefit of all the participants, I'm sorry, for all the Ukrainian national deputies, that we just technically can't and you won't be able to implement this idea. I'm asking you to support the editing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u149	I'm betting on a vote of 22 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:40]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 26. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Excuse me. 25th, that's it. I'm sorry. I didn't see chess, but there's a great one. Please, who's going to report? Check it out, huh? How many amendments do you have? 8. Well, let's take three minutes and you're taking your edits off. Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, I'm talking about Mr. Shahov's work. He's got eight rights, he's asking for three minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u150	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today we talked a lot and appointed ministers. We talked about different topics, different schemes, and so on. Please tell us, what time are the farmers going to be suffering today who are not getting their compensation for the land where the European Wall went from Chernigov to Snake Island, where we went (the Lubinets, Rudik, Sumar, Shahov, etc.), all the national MPs who were in that call and now here in this room? To what extent will people suffer and starve because they cannot get paid for their own money? That's the first one. Secondly, today we've been looking at the appointment of a minister of energy and coal industry, we're talking about selling land, not feeding coal miners who don't get paid today. The miner's Day didn't get his salary? We didn't get it. Didn't they get a salary in New Year's? We didn't get it. Didn't they get a paycheck on Easter? We didn't get it. Two days later, today, the Clean Thursday may need to be cleared of this plague, which today does not pay wages to miners? Tell me, who will answer? Wreszczuk today, our colleague, spoke for responsibility, and the minister confirmed that he would be responsible for what he was assigned. And first, families are starving today, 70,000 families from Volina to Luhanskina, from Luhanskina to Donetskina. What is happening today is also at the borders, in the Milovsky region, in the Trootic region, in the Biokurakin region, in the Swatov region, today the agrarian areas. Today, farmers suffer from the fact that the graves are impossible, and today they have not laid a branch in 7 years. What kind of land sale can we talk about today if farmers today cannot carry their flour and ride across the country, killing these roads by 60 tons? In Soviet times, there was no such load, and everything was carried by railroad. Seven years of war. When will Lugansk connect with a peaceful Ukraine, after all? When will people feel the normal attitude of authority toward them? And third, most importantly, today our Ukrainian land is divided into latifundists and so on. Tell me, who will be responsible for Lugansk's suffering today from this Hajudiya who is still running and stealing this land? Forty percent of the forest burned down, exported the green, who's going to be responsible for 22 billion dollars in damage to the Luhansk region? Zero responsibility, the year ends practically, we go to the holidays. Don't want to fight, it's Thursday. Please clean up the government there, and all the people are already praying, from that bastard who's robbing the area for billions of dollars. Please tell me, who will be responsible for the killings of the people in the Luhansk region? Zero responsibility! Trust me, in the next election, you will answer anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u151	Amendment number 26, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u152	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u153	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Society, this bill is from the cohorts of those who will start the summer sale of Ukrainian land for agricultural purposes during the war, during the pandemic. God forbid it'll be over by then. But there is a question of the food security of our nation. When we talk about support for farming, the latest statistics show that we have over 16,000 left, and 10 years ago we were almost 40. So this bill, these farmers that are left behind, will never be involved in electronic commerce. Most of them learn this from the media, what happened to the real owner of the land. This amendment applies to the whole of Ukraine's referendum, not to any auction of land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u154	I'm betting on the vote of 26 people's deputies of Tsimbaluka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:24]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment number 30, Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u155	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on my amendment because it foresees the deletion of the word and the notion of emphitheus in the corresponding sub-paragraph. And I want to explain why, citizens of Ukraine, we urge you not to take from you those who now use state land or utility land in the rest of these lands. And because none of you, like any of us in Parliament, have ever seen a map of Ukrainian agricultural land. Think about it, Fatherland protested yesterday that they should vote for the sale of land. And I'll tell you why. Because the main reason is that from all of us, they hide real, how much land is in use, how much agricultural land is in use. And to get this out of the way, there's only one way out of this is by "The Fatherland": an all-Ukrainian referendum. And you, the people of Ukraine, have to decide what will happen to the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u156	I'll bet you vote number 30. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:58]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Krulko, 36 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u157	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have heard repeatedly from both this rostrum and the media that foreigners will never be able to buy Ukrainian land. Because this whole process, which has been called land reform, is aimed at one thing: allowing foreigners to buy Ukrainian land – Ukraine is completely uncompetitive – to leave Ukrainians homeless. So if it's true that foreigners can't buy Ukrainian land, support the "Paternal" amendments and my amendments, which set up clear insurers in this law, so that neither foreign legal persons nor legal persons, the founders of which are foreigners, have the opportunity to claim to buy Ukrainian land. This is actually going to be a marker -- supporting these amendments, whether it's really planned or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u158	I'm betting on a vote of 36 Krulka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:35]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 37 lashes, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u159	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. And we've seen very clearly after the vote that promises about supporting Ukrainian farmers and not letting foreigners buy up land have nothing to do with reality. In fact, it is an example of the cynicism that is now taking place with regard to Ukrainian land and the crime that is taking place against the Ukrainian people. I propose 37 amendments to establish a special body authorized on behalf of a state to manage agricultural land, one hundred percent of the state-run organization that provides for the operation of agricultural land. Please support my amendment and protect the Ukrainian land through clear control of the State at its disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u160	I'll bet you vote 37. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:04]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thirty-eight, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u161	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This amendment clearly establishes the possibility of acquiring land only for Ukrainian citizens and legal persons without the possibility of involving foreign legal persons or foreign nationals who are the founders of legal persons in Ukraine. We think of it as a faction of Fatherland, that if the land can belong to someone else's rightful property, it's exclusively Ukrainian citizens. And because this land reform has nothing to do with the protection of Ukrainians and with the protection of Ukrainian land, we are like the Fatherland faction and Julia Timoshenko as the head of the "Fatherland" party, we are initiating a referendum to answer only the question of whether the land can be sold, and especially the sale to foreigners. We must protect the land of Ukraine from the vagabonds who today are going to leave the Ukrainians without our land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u162	I'll bet you vote 38. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:33.]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Batenko. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 48. There was no Alona Ivanovna. Sorry, 44, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u163	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, yesterday I started to tell another land law about how other states we're trying to equalize are doing: really, they're talking about peoples, referendums on such important issues, including very similar questions about the land market, and how agricultural land is to be sold, how these auctions are to take place, and so on and so forth. Today we're looking at the bill on electronic auctions on the land market. And maybe I said that yesterday, too, maybe this bill could be supported, but with those amendments, that it would be put into effect (and this law, and the previous one voted, unfortunately, by "people of the people" yesterday) only the day after the publication of the results of the U.S. referendum, or you could even buy and sell agricultural land. I'm in the same position. I'm going to continue to make specific amendments and try to explain to you why it's important to ask people first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u164	44 requisitions. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:40]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Puziczuk, 48 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u165	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, the third bill of the so-called land reform package is under consideration. The purpose of this bill is to take you out of the country. It is designed to sell out Ukrainian land to foreigners. Recall 2019 when the majority promised that the whole country would be covered by the Internet. In 2021 and 2020, Ukrainian schools do not have a normal Internet to teach children. Tell me, which one of you respected citizens believes that you can buy land at online auctions? This bill is only being implemented for one purpose. Foreigners in their countries should buy up Ukrainian land. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u166	I'll bet you a vote of 48. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:16]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 49 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u167	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Andry Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Mikola Tarasovich, Parliament is a place of discussion and I would very much like to hear your position as chairman of the committee on the amendments that have been tabled by our colleagues -- why they have all been rejected. As far as land reform is concerned. The Fatherland faction initiates and will help Ukrainian citizens hold a referendum so that citizens as owners of Ukrainian land will be identified as having seen the sale of land. And only after the U.S. referendum can such drafts be considered. And we insist that this bill be removed from consideration at all until the conclusion and holding of the U.S. referendum. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u168	I'll bet you 49 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:40]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 53 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u169	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to the board. You saw yesterday that the only faction that didn't give a single vote didn't support the disgraceful bill was the faction of Fatherland. The Fatherland faction is a faction that advocates the interests of the people of Ukraine. And we stand firm against the sale of land to foreigners. Our farmers can't compete with foreign capital, our farmers don't have access to cheap financial resources. Every year, the number of farmers decreases, and government support declines. Instead of working on bills that will contribute to the development of Ukrainian farmers, Ukrainian agrarians, most today are doing everything they can to sell land to foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u170	I'll bet you 53 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:18]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 54 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, please note the pattern. We can't get an answer with you. Why is the majority trying to reject or reject all the amendments made by colleagues from different factions? Why won't they wait for the referendum? Why is it that the majority are not interested in your opinion, your position of citizens who have entrusted you with representing your interests in Parliament? Why don't they take this bill off the table? Why is everything being created today so that investors from any country can buy and compete. It's not that you're competing, it's that you can't compete for the purchase of Ukrainian land. This bill will result in the loss of Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u172	I'll bet you 54 Puzichuk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:47]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Nicolanca, 55 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u173	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. My colleagues, you know, there's this saying that if they start talking about patriotism all of a sudden, it's probably something they're going to steal. In this case, the word is "digitalization." I'm all for introducing new technologies. But taking into account the facts that have been listed, the availability of average farmers, including the Internet, the country's coverage of this network, especially how this electronic system will manage the future, there is a fear of significant corruption risks. Because generally, this access to administration gets closer to the authority of the lining company. So I propose in part two of section two of the bill to delete part one of part one of the 135 of the Earth Code. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u174	I'm betting on a vote of 55, National Deputy Nikolaynko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:06]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 56th. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u175	Thank you. Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. With my amendment, I urge you to remove the emphytevism from this article, from this sub-paragraph, and explain why. Because, according to this word, respected citizens of Ukraine are hiding a very simple concept: the right to use a foreign land. But to whom is she a stranger? She's a stranger to this user, all the more so, who has only one intention: to bring a foreigner in, to get this land out of municipal or state property. But is she not a stranger to you, citizens of Ukraine? For us, this is our home land. That's why Fatherland insists: there must be an all-Ukrainian referendum, a referendum that will give a clear answer, and the main direction to the government in both parliament and the President how Ukraine feels about the authorities selling out the land. And Ukrainians have a negative attitude, so your word has to be decisive and everything. In the Ukrainian referendum, we're fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u176	Thank you, I'm putting to the vote the 56th amendment, People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:37]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number. 60th. Double, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u177	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. Dear Ukrainians, citizens of Ukraine. Yesterday, most adopted the Law on the Sale of Your Ukrainian Land. They forgot that they're sitting here in the hall because you chose them and delegated them the right to draft laws that are for you, for Ukrainians that apply to our native daughter of Ukraine. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction is in favour of withdrawing this bill and considering the bill only after a decision has been taken by Ukrainian citizens in the referendum. With regard to the amendment (after the referendum), in my view, the right to rent can be transferred to the predominant right to buy land into ownership after at least five years of effective lease. In the event that the land is realised through land auctions to realize this dominant right, the tenant, if he did not realize his right to a predominant ransom, should offer at least a price proposition equal to the price offer offered by other bidders. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u178	I'm betting on the 60th amendment of the People's Deputy Dubyl. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:18]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 61st. Double, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u179	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. Again and again, and I'm asking the majority to do what you promised our Ukrainian voters in the elections is to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum. What the "Fatherland" Party is doing right now is always doing to protect the Ukrainian people. As for the amendment (after the referendum, when we consider it), it is proposed to delete the word "or" because it refers separately to the different objects of circulation on the land market – ownership rights and lease rights. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u180	I'm betting on the 61th Amendment of the People's Deputy Dubyl. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:23]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 64th, Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u181	Thank you. Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. I want to go to Mikaly Tarasovich. The framework bill is already in force under the Ukrainian Law 2178 in July 2021. In order for Bill 2195 to be able to work with Bill 2178-d, it also has to take effect in July 2021. Mikola Tarasovich, the question of the next character. How can you technically ensure that there is an electronic site, that absolutely all the necessary technical means are available, so that only two months from today, a bill that is currently under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine can work? If we're talking about a bill that's going to work in the future outside of Law 2178. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u182	Thank you. I'm betting on the 64th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u183	Dear colleague, this law and 2178-10, which were passed last year, are practically unrelated. Because we have an active head of the Earth Trades Code, and it provides for the sale of land rights, as well as non-agricultural land by trade. They can be electronic and not electronic today, and it works a long time. First of all, this law refers to state and municipal property, the sale of lease rights through auctions, in this case by electronic means, so nothing new here is going to be for the market, except that it's a two-way system.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u184	I'm betting on the 64th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:56]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 66. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Mikola Tarasovich, I repeat, is a place of discussion. But we can see that you're discussing with someone and tell them who you're having a discussion with, what are you talking about? It's very interesting for all your colleagues to hear. We'd like to hear an answer from you, and we and the Ukrainian citizens would like to hear from you: what percentage of Ukrainian farmers have access to the Internet? Who can participate in electronic commerce? The second question. Tell me, what percentage of Ukraine today is covered by the Internet? How many people do not have access to the Internet, and how can farmers participate in these electronics? Ruslan Alexiyovich, it's not a monologue, it's a parliament, it's a parliamentary debate, please, we want to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u186	It's wonderful to give my word to the head of the committee. Parliament has never been a monologue, with rare exceptions to parliamentary spam. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u187	I think you clearly underestimate farmers and Ukrainian citizens in the use of the Internet. I think they know how to use it, like we do. This is the first moment. One second. In fact, it's much more convenient to do the bidding, including for the farmer electronically and remotely, and these precedents are already repeated because the system works, such as SETAM, than to come to the district or district center, where it's done by way of an offline so-called auctioneer. If they got rid of the GPS for technology, believe me, they'll deal with it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u188	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. I'll bet 66 on the amendment of the Puzijczuk People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:43]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 69, Kabachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u189	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Critical correction and this is that this rule excludes sales of land, sale of the right to emphysics and superficie. Instead, it is established that only land leases can be sold. So if we're talking to you right now about giving Ukrainian farmers a chance to work on Ukrainian land, then of course we have to give them the right to buy, the right to rent this land. And it's based on that logic that we're making changes to article 134, which is called "The Obligation to Sell Land Rental Rights on State or Municipal Property on Competitive Principles" and other articles of the Earth Code, which exactly reflect this idea. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u190	Thank you. I'm betting on the 69th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:14]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 73, Kabachenko. Excuse me, excuse me. I missed yours, yeah, you say? 70th, Puzichuk. Yes, indeed. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u191	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. It is a pleasure to have a parliamentary discussion in the hall. Mikola Tarasovich, but it comes down to some rhetorical statement that everyone is happy, everyone has. The simple question was, what percentage of Ukrainian farmers have access to the Internet? We did not hear the answer. And when you're talking about GPS in technology, you're talking about big agro companies that you're protecting today. And the Fatherland faction protects not only big business but also small farmers. Small farmers are the ones that process 6, 8, 10 hectares. Very often it's manual processing. Where does a GPS person stand on a person? What are you talking about? Let us speak substantively that Ukrainian farmers will not be able to participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u192	I give my word to the head of the committee. Please, Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u193	Dear colleague, I'll tell you what -- the general question is the general answer. Because in this direction neither the percentage of the Internet nor the manual work are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u194	Thank you. I'm betting on the 70th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:06]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 73. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u195	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, and this is a strange situation where it was in their pre-election promises that a referendum would be held to make any important decisions for the Ukrainians, for the Ukrainian people. And it's the Fatherland faction that's right here that stands up for your promises that you made at the time of the election campaign. We don't mind the discussion, we don't mind opening markets on competitive, on market grounds. We want to, and we will continue to defend the interests of the Ukrainians. If, after the referendum, they agree, if we get most of the Ukrainians who want to exercise their right, we will support you. I thank you very much for your attention and ask you to support your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u196	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 73 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:33]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 76. Scum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u197	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this amendment refers to a list of market participants who may or may not buy land at electronic auctions. It's also conceptual for us, because in our sense, in order for auctions to be fair and fair, we have to say honestly to each other: who today will be the main market participant, who today will have priority and for whom we open this market, even if we already open it in the way that we are. The position of the Fatherland faction, my personal position on this issue, it hasn't changed for several years -- we have to develop a small family medium-sized farm, we have to develop small and medium-sized farms. Why? Because the 2 systems that will bring us out of the economic crisis today are the development of small family farming and the development of localization processing and other incentives. That's what this amendment is about. The participants in the river are small and family farms.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u198	I'm betting on a vote of 76 to amend the national deputy Shkrum. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:03]] For-57 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u199	77, Timoshenko. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u200	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mikola Tarasovich, just telephoned a farmer named Peter from Buska Lviv region. He's processing 120 acres of land, he doesn't have the ransom money. He asks you if you can plant corn; or if you can buy it at auction, at trades, or if you will be able to collect it. It is my duty to supplement in article 135 the land trade with the paragraph "physical person or entity of a small and medium-sized farm company". Give Peter hope from Buska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u201	Mikhail Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. May I? I wanted to know if your phone could be given to farmers so they could call? I don't want to be alone. Not here, with all due respect. I didn't hurt you. I just wanted to find out. May I? Thank you. I'll bet you 77 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:35]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puziczuk, 81 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u202	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexanderovich, on the phones, on the phones, on the phones, our farmers know the phones of the deputies of Fatherland, and they're talking to us. But they probably don't know the phones of Mikola Tarasovich Solski, and let's ask Mikola Tarasovich, if he doesn't mind if we give his phone to the farmers so that the farmers can communicate with him so they can tell the committee their position, their vision. Because there is now a new adoption of the land sale bill when in Ukraine there is a lockdown. Farmers have no opportunity to go to the Council. Farmers have no opportunity to express their position. And today there is no discussion, no discussion of the law with farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u203	I'm betting on a vote of 81 Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Thank you. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:12]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 82, Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u204	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. With this right, I insist that we vote and remove the yet opaque scheme of actual ownership, the kidnapping of municipal or state land that belongs to the truly united communities of the citizens. Now look at how many parks in Kiev are being built by users without the consent of the people who live. Protansy Jar. Would any of you like to come down and ask which one of you has helped the community to stand still for an acre of land in this unique park in Kiev and so on? That's why Fatherland insists that we start with the ground and start with the people. The All-Ukrainian referendum, the will of the people, the citizens of Ukraine, and only then to address any issues relating to the right of people to own, manage and use their own land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u205	I'll bet you 82 votes on that. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:41]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, 89.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u206	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In principle, I can announce my phone number, most people in the area know it, but I don't want to force anyone else to advertise it. Basically, it's a question. In fact, honourable colleagues, most of the rights apply to the fact that if e-commerce starts its work, the first thing to do is to allow equal access for all market participants, especially farmers and rural people living in the village to auctions. Next. Let's be consistent. When it was said that the Law on Referendum was adopted to consult the people on the most important issues and the most painful. Is the earth’s theme not important? Let's hold a referendum on the people's initiative. Let the people of Ukraine say he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u207	I'm betting on the 89th Amendment of Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[2:02:21]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 97 law, Kabachenko. 91st, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u208	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, the bill voted yesterday by the "ministers of the people", 2194 allows for the removal of the fertile layer. And that's actually going to mean access to beneficial fossils. Now analyze what is going to happen. Foreign investors, they're going to buy agricultural land not only to process this land and grow it, and to export it to their countries, it's going to be uncontrollable access to Ukraine's navel. And if you have a source of income today, this is your land where you grow produce, and your family and your family live on it, then tomorrow you will be deprived of useful fossils. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u209	I'm betting on the vote number 91 of Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:05]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Kabachenko, 97.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u210	Thank you. Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. It is important for everyone to understand that a lack of digital awareness will limit market participants' rights to participate in the auctions currently referred to in this bill. The lack of digital awareness is not my opinion, it's not the idea of the Fatherland faction, it's statistics, it's statistics that have been confirmed by the Mincify. And that's why you and I now realize that, on the one hand, it's kind of progressive for us to move on to an e-commerce model. But on the other hand, objectively, you and I now realize that there is no technical possibility today in Ukraine for these electronics to be conducted objectively and transparently. And that's why, based on common sense and logic, we had to make sure, first of all, that there was a technical capability and then go back to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u211	I'm betting on a vote of 97 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:34]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Scram. I made a mistake. 101st, Cimbaluk. Cymbaleucus, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u212	Mikhailo Cimbaluk. We're on, thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainian people, this bill is not really about the sale, it's about the removal of land into peasants. Is it now possible for a farmer who processes 20, 30 acres [20, 30 ha] of land to be competitive to acquire his land or land that belongs to a local community? No, it's not. Do we have extended loans for peasants to buy land for permanent use of ownership? Of course not. The risk of this bill is that the land will be bought by those who have serious expenses. And he who thinks that he can somehow become one by processing the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u213	101 redundancies. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:16]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Kabachenko, 107.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u214	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. We can continue our dialogue on the sale of lease rights, but we cannot continue our dialogue on land sales. These are critically two different things. From the market economy point of view, not allowing someone to sell or buy a lease is wrong. And so again, with common sense, we want to bring you back to the next model: stop considering this bill at the moment, allow you to manage your lease rights. And just after we have the technical capability to conduct electronic auctions, we will go back to the draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u215	Thank you. I'll bet you 97 votes. Please identify and vote. [[2:08:41]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 132 requisitions, Nadvajchenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] But you weren't. 105 is not your turn. 105 readjustment is Dubinsky's law. 103, Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u216	Thank you, Mr. Head. Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, with my permission, I still insist that we remove the opaque emphytevsis scheme. Because of the use of foreign land, we understand that it can actually lead to illegal "acquisition" or privatization of municipal or state land. And most importantly, the "Fatherland" faction is not just turning, but it knows and respects how the people work, and more than that, we know and respect Ukrainian citizens. And that's why we're directly addressing you, citizens of Ukraine, we need to hold an all-U.S. referendum, we're collecting signatures, your signatures, because it's you and your votes that will decide the fate of Ukrainian land. This should happen as soon as possible. I call upon all citizens of Ukraine: after the festivals, be uncaring, forbid your land to be stolen from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u217	I'm betting on the 103rd draft of the Covenant. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:49]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 111 right, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u218	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. 111 My rights with Julia Timoshenko apply: in the second paragraph of the second paragraph, after the words “territorial area” add to the words “non-agriculture assignment, and the guaranteed buyer is the territorial community or state agency to which the redemption of land belongs”. Dear Mikola Tarasovich, as a professional, you have studied the experience of many European and other nations. The very creation of a government agency that will have the authority to buy land, the pies of those citizens who want to sell, is a guarantee of the food security of our nation. Create such a public authority and let the citizens who really want to sell the land sell it at market price, and the owner will be the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian people in the person of this state agency, and then they will rent it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u219	I'm betting on the 111th Amendment of Cimbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:22]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Petty Officer, 132.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u220	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I insist on my amendment, and I suggest that Ukrainian citizens be confident, both municipal property, and state and newly created united territorial communities have the right to know which land belongs to them, which land was illegally removed, whether through emphyteussis schemes or other illegal schemes. That is why I urge you to start by showing all Ukrainian citizens the real land cadastre, the real land that is owned or owned by communities. To that end, we demand that a nationwide referendum be held on this real map of Ukrainian lands, in order for Ukrainians to understand and resolve the issue of their own land. No one has the right to take that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u221	I'm betting on a 132-season vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:05]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Petty Officer, 139. Next item. Now, one minute. Nicolanca, 167 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u222	Thank you, Mr. Head. Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. So the land trades, I think, shouldn't be in line, so to speak, between firms that are close to power. And so we suggest that real competition in land sales be introduced, such as allowing more bidders to take up trades by reducing the start-up rate of annual land use fees from 30 to 20 percent of the size of the registration and guaranteed lotto payments. And according to the sixth part of article 135 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the following edition. "The determination of the size of the registration and the guaranteed stakes per lot takes into account the requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the amount of the guarantee may not be less than 20 per cent of the start-up price of land sales or 20 per cent of the start-up annual salary for land use." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u223	Thank you, Andre Ivanovich. I'm betting on the 167th edition of Nikolainka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:51]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Many rights, Andrew Ivanovich. We're through. 198, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u224	What kind of correction did you just not hear?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u225	198.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u226	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u227	Don't shout. Nicolanca.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u228	I can sound my 198th edition. But, colleagues, they really don't have an update after my 167. So 198 is right. This amendment continues my initiative, which I defined in the previous amendment, particularly in 182, which I didn't hear either. That is, the desire to limit the ability of electronic operators, to manipulate the costs of the corresponding guarantee fees, and the participants in the land trade. I mean, they have to be limited to three days. And the correct wording was: until the change in part seven of article 135, "It is forbidden to conduct. " I see I won't be able to, but you've gone overboard, Mr. Head, a few rights, including my colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u229	Next issue of the People's Deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. 203 correct. Wait a minute. Your vote, Andrew Ivanovich? I thought you just didn't insist. 198 amendment, I put it to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:47]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 203 correct, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u230	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to say, first of all, that the amendments made by Fatherland are extremely important to protect Ukrainian land from uncontrollable sales. To ensure that farmers who work on earth are still able to process it. And these amendments that are now coming are about to address in the framework of the Earth Code only all the questions that relate to rents that relate to a guarantee contribution that concerns other issues that may have a definite impact on the sale of land. That is why we demand that, not the Kabminu regulations, which are adopted in a subterranean regime, but that these issues be settled solely by the Earth Code. Because, as they say, colleagues, support the amendments that Fatherland is making because it's the only mechanism to protect Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u231	203 correct, Krulko. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:20]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Alona Ivanovna, a minute, yes, and five ballots? 214, 245, 261, 271, 281, Scrum. Can you turn it on for a minute, please? Please insert the card. Not in your hands. Yeah. Turn on the microphone, please, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u232	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. From the third attempt. My colleagues, I'm going to reexplain the logic of my amendments, they're all about the same question. If we want to build a country economically successful, if we want to be independent of foreign investment alone and not dependent on, in principle, no one but ourselves, if we want to be self-sufficient, we need to develop: first, economics, second, processing and industry and third, obviously small and medium-sized farming. So if the focus is on small, medium-sized farming, on the ability for it to buy the land that they're processing today, on access to the normal money and finance that they were promised, but didn't do anything about it, then our country has a chance of becoming self-sufficient. If that is not the case, it is not the wrong strategy; it is the strategy that leads us nowhere. And that's what my amendments are about -- to participate in auctions and allow small and medium-sized farms, and they have to be the main bet. Today, the main bet on foreigners, on agro-holdings, on large corporations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u233	Alana Ivanovna, I'm putting five of your voting rights, as we agreed. 214 law. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:44]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 245 axles. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:13]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 261. It's partially accounted for. The author insists on the whole thing. Maybe we won't vote, then we'll go. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:44]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 271 law. She's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:06]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 281 revision. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:26]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puzichuk, 217 right. Cabatchenko? What's the readout? Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u234	Thank you. Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u235	Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u236	Edit 206, if you're talking to me. The amendments to Article 134, entitled “Responsibility to sell leases on land of state or municipal property on competitive grounds”, have established that they are not subject to the sale or sale of land on competitive grounds or at land markets of State or municipal property, or the right to land, if these areas are classified as particularly valuable land. We talked to you about this during the consideration of Bill 2194, we were unable to reach consensus with you. But let's go back to this issue in Bill 2195 and get out of the circle of e-commerce, especially the valuable lands that are now envisaged by this bill. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to back this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u237	I'm betting on a vote of 206. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:02]] For-58 The decision is not made. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 207 right, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u238	Thank you very much. 207 revisions, it repeats the logic of 206 revisions. So I'm not going to make my case. Asking her to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u239	I'll bet you 217 votes. Please identify and vote. 207 right, I'm sorry. [[14:25:45.]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 217 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u240	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Mikola Tarasovich, I would like to ask you how often are you in the Ukrainian village? Do You Communicate With People? And explain, what is the attitude of owners, farmers, to selling land? If you claim that Ukrainian citizens are supporting the sale of land, why are you not initiating the bill as chairman of the committee today? Why don't you wait for the results of the U.K. referendum, where we get a clear answer from the citizens or they support the sale or not? And sociology shows that today 60 percent of citizens will come to a nationwide referendum and 70 percent of citizens will vote strongly against the sale of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u241	I'll bet you 217 votes. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:17]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 223, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u242	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, three main moments why this bill is not in time today. The first reason and the most objective is that we know that the Internet is not in Ukraine today. There are only 21 percent of online users among agricultural workers today. If we are talking about agricultural land, it can be said that it is statistics about agricultural workers that we should consider. Secondly, we don't deny that you can manage rent rights, but we strongly deny that you can manage emphytevism rights and land sales rights. And the third moment. Let's take the valuable land out of the circle of this bill. Thank you very much. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u243	I'll put it to a vote of 223, Kabachenko. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:07]] For-55
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u244	The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Next amendment, just a second. 232, Cimbaluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u245	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. When we adopted the previous bill, the main goal -- we were told -- is that the land is passed on to the community and they will become real owners. Our amendment, together with Julia Timoshenko, refers to article 136, which refers to the selection of land and municipal property and the preparation of lotteries. We believe that the selection of such areas, the development of cost-effective documentation -- should all agree with the territorial communities or with the public authorities that are legally authorized to do so. So far, this bill has been rejected: Lots will be formed without the position of united territorial communities, which is unacceptable, including land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u246	I'll bet you 232 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:53]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 234. Cool, please. Don't insist. Double, please. 233, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u247	The Fatherland faction, Valérie Dubyl. Dear colleagues, I address you. Lakmus paper: whether to vote in favour of these bills or not, is the voice of the Ukrainian people, the voice of our agrarians who have chosen you, which is why we are in this room today. Yesterday my phone was ripped off by the agriculture of the Chernigiv region from all over the area and shouted one word: shame! They were asked what to do, where to take the funds for the earth’s ransom. They asked where the cheap loans promised to the agrarians were. It was said that their deputies had been hired on this earth, that the land would be bought by large agroholdings and foreigners. As far as the readjustment is concerned. It is offered during the selection of land or municipal property that is displayed at land auctions to take into account the public opinion of the unification of the residents of the buildings that border these land areas. Please put 233, 278 y, 304 y and 401.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u248	I'll bet on the vote 233 amendment of the People's Deputy Dubyl. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:40]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] And he's four more? What else, please tell me, because I didn't write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u249	278th, 304th and 401th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u250	278. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u251	278ths, 304ths, 401ths and 415ths.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, I make these adjustments accordingly. I bet on the vote of Amendment 278. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:34]] For-50 Next. Next amendment to 304, People's Deputy Dubyl. I'm voting, too. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:56]] For-48 The decision is not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next. The next amendment is 401. Wait, we're putting those he said first. The people's Deputy Dubyl's amendment was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:31]] For-50 The decision is not taken. And the last amendment that the people's deputy Dubyl insisted on, 415th. The committee didn't support her either. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:53]] For-53 The decision is not taken. We're going back. What's that? 299, please. National MP Puziyczuk, what's the correction? Hold on, guys. 293 amendments, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u253	Cool. 293 law, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u254	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The aim of the amendment that I am now making is to prevent the concentration of a large number of agricultural land in one hand. Because what they now call land reform, which is actually a pseudo-reform, is the de-alination of Ukrainian agriculture, as they did in Soviet times, when the last was taken from Ukrainian mono-persons. Now they are planning to take away from the people the cities, their pies, their land, which they have been processing throughout all the years of Ukrainian independence, where people have survived on these lands. When they had no wages, when they had no opportunity to buy anything at the store, they grew produce and fed their families. So now these reforms are trying to take this land away from people, and the tariffs are to take the last savings and leave it with no money and no land. This is the purpose of these reforms that you are now proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u255	293. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:45]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 299 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u256	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Mikola Tarasovich, I would like to read an interview with the previous head of the Dergeokadastro, Head of the Dergeokadastra of November 20, 2020. As he began: that one Slovak had been stolen in Ukraine, 5 million hectares of state land had disappeared. Please tell me, when you are the head of the profile committee in the agenda, will you bring the Conciliation Board to the meeting to create a temporary inquiry committee on the theft of state property, including the lands of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences? Why are you blocking and not allowing parliamentarians, your colleagues, to create this commission and investigate the looting of state land? Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u257	I'm betting on a vote of 299 Puzichuk. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:19]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puziczuk, 300 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u258	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, notice, there is a complete disregard for your rights and interests, there is no answer regarding the theft of 5 million hectares of land. Colleagues cannot hear from the head of a professional committee, which, within the framework of parliamentary control under article 85 of the Constitution, must exercise control and supervision, including the inefficient use of land and land theft. And we can't hear the answer when Mr. Solsky initiates the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day draft of the decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry. What is the purpose of this bill? To sell these 5 million acres of land, stolen state land, your land. And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u259	I'll bet you 300 votes, Puziyczuka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:48]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 307, Kabachenko. Next. 329 zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u260	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, dear reporter, our application, together with Julia Timoshenko, relates to the changes to article 137. We suggest putting it out as follows: "At the request of the organizer of the advertising and conducting of land trades with documents and materials on the lot can also be placed in other electronic and printed media. And an announcement must be made for publication in the local community and local self-government." Here the authorities and the drafters of the bill should be consistent, because when the bill was passed yesterday, they said that everything was done to make the community the owner. And when the lotteries are announced to sell land for non-agricultural purposes, it is planned not to even ask or inform the local community.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u261	I'm betting on the vote of 329 Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:51]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich, you have three revisions here. Why don't we vote for a minute? 331. Please give me a minute, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u262	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I agree with your suggestion that one minute and four amendments: 331, 332, 333 and 334. But if I get an answer to my question from the head of the profile committee. The question is, Mikola Tarasovich. Ukrainian citizens want to hear, and as representatives of the people of Ukraine in parliament, we insist on answers. When will the Supreme Council's agenda include the creation of a provisional commission of inquiry, what is involved in the investigation, the looting of state property, including the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine? Because read the interesting interview of the head of the State Department, there were 10 million of the country’s land, and there were 2 million. Where did this land go?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u263	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich, for the design. He'd be willing to prepare, but, you see, he'll report on the platform. I'll bet you vote 331. 332 can't because it's counted. 331. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:36]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Three hundred and thirty-three. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:54]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 334 lashes, Puziyczuka. Also not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:13]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Scrabble, a minute after that. Five rights. Are they all not supported by the committee or are they partially supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u264	Everyone's not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u265	Not supported. One minute, please turn on Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u266	Thank you. Colleagues, look, we're trying to correct with our own rights at least the situation that has arisen, to support small and medium-sized farmers, to support small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. But this whole bill has to come into force, to our conviction, only after a nationwide referendum on the sale of agricultural land is held. This, my position has not changed under any land law. I think we shouldn't be asking people's opinion on this controversial issue, I've already started to give examples of how other countries use it and hold referendums on almost exactly such issues. For example, in the last U.S. elections, 17 local referendums were held simultaneously with Presidential elections, some of them related to the use of agricultural land and environmental issues. At the time, they were asked what they thought, and on the basis of this, they had already made a decision as to whether or not a law would be in force. I think I should do the same with this law and I have similar rights to do so. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u267	I'll bet you 308 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:56]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 319 Schrum. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:14]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 328 revisions. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:33]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 346th. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:51]] For-56 The decision is not taken. And extreme 359 Scrum. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:10]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Edit Not Found Puzichuk, 356.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u268	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, we see that no one is interested in "ministers of the people" your opinion. None of the "ministers of the people" want to consult you as the owner of the Ukrainian land. No one's meeting with agrarians, no one's talking to farmers, and they don't understand your vision, but they're ordering large transnational corporations that are interested in a set of Ukrainian lands. Explain, Mikolo Tarasovich, if you are sure that Ukrainians support the sale of land, why don't you withdraw this bill? Why are you trying so hard to push him? And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u269	I'm betting on the 356th vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:50]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 341 correct, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u270	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What is this amendment about? What is planned by this law? That when there is a trade and sale of land, information about these deals will be posted in electronic media, that is, on the Internet. Now imagine, a farmer in a village without an Internet connection, because no one has done the Internet and is not going to conduct it, even a mobile phone connection is not normal, he has not found out about it, because he has not read it on some Internet site on an incomprehensible trading site, and his land will be sold without his knowledge. And he will not be able to do anything and return the land that he has been working on for years, where his children grow up, where he actually feeds his family and the neighbors who work on his land. So we're proposing this amendment, and I'm asking that the Hall support it, to make it impossible to sell land, land without participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u271	I'll bet on the vote 341 of Krulk's amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:48]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 383, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u272	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What's the amendment I'm proposing right now? The position of part four and fifth of article 9 of the Land Rental Act, if there is a person who has the dominant right to purchase land, such land should not be placed on land auctions until the documented refusal of the designated person from such an area. If such a person refuses to buy land, documentary confirmation of such refusal should be indicated in the declaration. That is, we want to place fuses so that the person is physically present at the bidding and that if he does not want to buy his own land, he must give written confirmation. This will really protect the interests of Ukrainian farmers. Therefore, we demand that the laws adopted in this session hall be represented and advocated for people’s interests and that they defend the interests of every Ukrainian and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u273	I'll bet you vote 383, Krulko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:18]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Half-lined. 386th, Krulko. I'm sorry, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u274	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Mikola Tarasovich, please contact your colleagues not only for the majority. Ivan Ivanovich asked questions and we did not hear the answer. Why do you object to the fact that the sale of the land might be in the event of a written refusal of the tenant? Dear citizens, what's going to happen? We're asking a question to the head of the profile committee, but we don't hear or hear the answer -- how do we keep your right? If you are a tenant, the land you rent will be sold without you. My colleague Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk asked if the chairman of the committee would guarantee that you would be able to harvest crops in the 21st year if your land was sold. How will the interests of small Ukrainian farming be protected? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u275	Suddenly, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u276	Dear colleague, read the law. What kind of sales are we talking about? You want to guarantee what's not allowed by law. It is only possible to form a lease or other land rights on state utility property, with the exception of ownership rights. It's such an empty discussion, actually. And when we talk about private property, the primary right is clearly prescribed and guarantees first the ransom to the person who processes it. So don't let Mr. Peter of Bousk worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u277	I'm betting on a vote of 386 Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:48]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Krulko, 388 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u278	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, we have remained the only faction in this session room, the only team that protects Ukrainian land. To be honest, I'm losing track of who people have chosen in the election of national deputies. And after that, they will all put ashes on their heads: what have we done? When raiders take away the earth from humans, when man cannot redeem what he has when men become entrenched on his own earth. And even amendments such as this 388 amendment, which avoids any corruption risk in order for the lot to be recorded, all of which are an exclusive list of the information to be announced, and even such amendments are not accepted in this room. So I don't know what kind of law we're going to have anymore. It will be full of vachanals and people will go out on the street to protect their own, but unfortunately it will be too late. Think about it now!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u279	I'll bet you 388 votes, Krulko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:20]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Cymbaluk, 408.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u280	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I thank Mikola Tarasovich for Peter of Buska, but he owns only 20 acres, rents the rest. He is concerned about the leased land. But I do have a proposal that will not only unite the session hall, but 70 percent of the Ukrainians will now present and vote with one vote on the proposal to return the bill to read again. And this will be the consensus that can be followed by a bill that will primarily bring about Ukrainian society. And I'm definitely against someone saying that the land of farming is just a village. That's not true. Because a large number, by the way, all Ukrainian citizens have the right to free land in accordance with the Constitution, citizens too. Because of this, please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u281	I'm betting on a vote of 408 Cymbaluca. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:33]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'll give you a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Five amendments without discussion and Puziczuk four without discussion, right? I'm going to put 9 right now. I'll continue the session for 15 minutes then, but as soon as we pass nine. No, you didn't get it, now it's 5 rights and 4 rights, and you closed the session, but to continue I have 15, I don't have a choice. Do you have a deal? Please give me your license numbers. Let's finish today, Mikola Tarasovich. I'll bet you vote 396. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:59:39]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item is 435 Puziyczuk. Please identify and vote. [[14:59:59]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item is 444. Please identify and vote. [[15:00:18]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 451 Puzichuk's right. Please identify and vote. [[15:00:38]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And five rights to the Opposition Platform for Life. Do I get it right? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Or next time. What are the numbers? Turn on the microphone. Please tell me the license numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u282	Thank you, Mr. Head. "The Opposition Platform for Life" was only five amendments. This is 255, 265.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u283	275.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u284	No, it's not. 498, 514 and 520. That's how we memorize legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m0.u285	I'll put them to the vote. 255, partially counted. The author insists on taking full account. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. I'm putting the author's proposal to a vote. [[15:01:50]] For-46 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially counted. 265 revisions, as amended. The author insists on taking full account. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. [[15:02:15]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 498 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:02:36]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 514 axles. Please identify and vote. [[15:02:56]] For-46 The decision is not taken. And the extreme readjustment for today is 520. Editing the committee is an editorial. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[15:03:22]] For-43 [[15:03:47]] The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Alexander Sergiyovich, can I talk to you for a minute? So we went on to the 15th. Dear colleagues, the plenary session is closed. I'll see you at 4:00.
