ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:01:31]] There are 250 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! 30 years ago, December 1, 1991? A significant historical event took place – the All-U.S. referendum on Ukraine's independence and the beginning of a new history of a sovereign and independent Ukraine. Nearly 32 million voters took part in the referendum. And over 90 of them asked if you were confirming the Ukrainian Independence Act, they said, yes, we confirm. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome you to this holiday. And today's the day. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I declare an open plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I invite you to the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. Hello. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the meeting of the Supreme Council, participate: Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads of central executive bodies, heads of judicial branch, judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, representatives of the media, heads of diplomatic representatives of foreign states and heads of representatives of international organisations accredited in Ukraine. And, colleagues, for the first time, the First Supreme Council of Ukraine are invited to a plenary meeting by representatives of the public, including the relatives of Ukraine's dead defenders. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of the heroes who died in the struggle for freedom, independence, and territorial integrity of our Fatherland. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Honourable National Deputies and Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 8, of the Constitution, hears the President of Ukraine's message on Ukraine's internal and external status. Today, according to article 106, part one, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine refers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the internal and external status of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies are invited to the rostrum by President Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski of Ukraine to announce a message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, dear Ukrainian people, distinguished people present, respected ones present! Have a seat, please. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the honourable ones are here! A year ago, I started my letter by saying that its format was worth changing and, apart from the national deputies, reporting directly to people — people who for five years, for five years, hired all of us, hired me to work. These are our military, their families, our doctors, our scientists, our students, our artists, our athletes, all our Ukrainian citizens from all parts of Ukraine, including our Donbas and Crimea. [[Applause]] And I am very happy to begin this letter today, welcoming all of you, all of them in this room. This is especially symbolic today, on a sign day that took place exactly 30 years ago December 1, 1991: a nationwide referendum on Ukraine's independence was held, supported by an absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens from all regions, including our Donbas and Crimea. [[Applause]] 30 years ago, we took a big step, but we didn't go any further. We've restored, declared, we've chosen, we've gained an independent Ukraine, but we haven't started to build independence. It's the law. It's the law. It's the law. It's the law. It's the law. It's the law. Where the Constitution is a great social treaty, not a small culinary treaty. [[Applause]] Where politicians work by 100 percent of citizens, not by 20 percent of the GDP of one citizen. [[Applause]] This country has not been built for many years. We've been building this country for the last two and a half years, all of us, together. It's actually a free, really independent, really independent state. An independent country is primarily a healthy country. We've been fighting COVID-19 for two years. We started with almost nothing, and it's true. Now we have almost everything -- hospitals, beds, oxygen, and, most importantly, vaccines. Yesterday we didn't know how to divide the first batch into 500,000 doses, currently available millions of doses of AstraZeneca, CoronaVac, Pfizer, Moderna. We started with 10,000 vaccines a day, and in November we made 6.5 million. Thank our medics. [[Applause]] In general, 24 million vaccinations are now available. But I don't want the main word of my address to be COVID today, and I don't want it to be the word "lokdown." I want the main association with our country to be with other words. I want Ukraine to have a word for the first time. I'll talk about the main thing that was done for the first time and what will happen next. Despite the global pandemic and the economic crisis caused by this pandemic, we have stabilized the economic situation. In 2021, the size of Ukraine's economy will for the first time, for the first time in independence, exceed $190 billion. [[Applause]] This is more than in the 2008 and 2013 crisis. For the first time since the same year 2013, we will reduce government debt to below 50 percent of GDP. [[Applause]] In recent years, in most countries, it has grown rapidly and on average more than 90 percent worldwide. Our gold reserves have grown, and today they reach $30 billion. [[Applause]] This is the highest rate since the same year 2013. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the loan rate for small and medium-sized businesses fell below 10 percent, 10. [[Applause]] At present, this is an average of 9.7 percent. Thanks to the "Available Credits 5-7-9", Ukrainian small and medium-sized businesses received over 70 billion dollars, created thousands of new jobs. We're about to launch the Ukrainian Dream program, where every citizen of our country who pays taxes honestly can get a loan at 5 percent, 5 percent in a bracelet to buy their own real estate, an electric car and acquire an education or a change of profession. [[Applause]] The energy crisis, the power constraints, the significant increase in tariffs -- it's not about Ukraine for the first time, I welcome you. These are the realities of the whole world, despite which we have managed to maintain stability in energy, to stop rising prices for residential services, and to even lower electricity prices for the population of our nation. In 2022 we will launch a large program called "Great Thermomodernization". We plan to warm thousands, thousands, not isolated cases, thousands of multi-story buildings, schools, gardens, hospitals. This will allow us to prevent further increases in energy prices and for the first time, for the first time, to gain real energy independence. [[Applause]] I want to thank you, honourable parliamentarians, I want to thank you, I want to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday we voted on a very important tax law, 5600, which increases. [[Applause]] which increases the rent for the use of Ukraine's natural resources, each Ukrainian. We're going to direct these funds to our children. So by December 10 of this year, for the first time in the history of our independence, I'm introducing a bill on Ukrainian economic passport. [[Applause]] By December 10th, according to him. [[Applause]] According to him, these costs -- the cost of using our Ukrainian nadr -- will be accumulated in the personal accounts of Ukrainian children. [[Applause]] Our children will be able to use this money to obtain education, education in Ukraine, respectable policies, education of their children in Ukraine or to buy their own life in Ukraine. These two laws will eventually make the oligarchs a real investor in our children’s future. I welcome them! [[Applause]] And this will also be the first time in the years of our state's independence. From this day forward, from this day forward, December 1st, the minimum wage in Ukraine is 6.5,000 dollars. [[Applause]] Not only did we raise the minimum wage, but the average wage this year for the first time in 30 years in the dollar equivalent has exceeded $500 per month. [[Applause]] For the first time, doctors’ wages have doubled in a year. Since the new year, January 1, it will amount to at least 20,000 dollars. [[Applause]] The average salary for a doctor in Ukraine will be 24,000 dollars. [[Applause]] For the first time, we begin to treat the doctor with dignity, not just when we need it. And I'm sure in my next letter a year from now, I'm going to say the same thing about the wages of our teachers. [[Applause]] But the question is not just about increasing wages. Compared to 2019, the medical budget doubled. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, we have completely assembled a fleet of rapid, rapid aids, 100 percent. [[Applause]] We repaired 600 rural infirmaryes and more than 200 reception rooms. And the following year, we're starting a reconstruction -- a new program, a reconstruction of 48 district multi-purpose clinics: 24 for adults, 24 for children, and 24 rehabilitation centers for our veterans. [[Applause]] I am proud that, next year, for the first time since the beginning of the war in eastern Ukraine, we will for the first time completely close our ranks for all the veterans of the war in eastern Ukraine. [[Applause]] Right after the veterans, we're starting the same process for all of our military personnel. I am proud that almost a thousand people in Afghanistan are applauding the entire world for saving Ukrainian military intelligence. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u3	I am proud that, for the first time in 30 years in 2022, the financing of the defence and security sector, of all programmes, will exceed 320 billion dollars, with the sum being 191.7 billion dollars in 2018. Within these funds, we are launching for the first time a comprehensive missile program, a software for the restoration of the Ukrainian fleet, and for the creation of cybervies in Ukraine. For the first time in independence, the state is building Antonov, AN-178, for its army. [[Applause]] For the first time in Ukraine, for the first time, we're building a military factory that manufactures modern drones. For the first time in years, the Council of National Security and Defence has become truly involved in the security and defence of the state of Ukraine, a state independent of thieves in law, smugglers, criminal authorities, agents of other states, protecting its land, its nadra, its drinking water, its forest and all its strategic enterprises. We build a country independent of the help and support of others who are always grateful for it -- I thank everyone, every country -- but we never wait for it. And first of all, we're counting on ourselves: we're not waiting tens of months to capture the Crimea, but we're gathering dozens of countries to free it, and we're launching the Crimea platform. [[Applause]] The first summit was attended by 46 delegations, leaders of the G7 and the EU: the United States, Germany, France, Turkey, all our friends, NATO leadership, the OSCE, the Council of Europe. For the first time since 2014, Crimea’s occupation has been discussed at the highest international level. We've brought Crimea back into the world order of the day. The Crimean Platform will be anchored in the UN General Assembly resolution. [[Applause]] We await its official status as an international organization. For the first time since the occupation, we have been fighting for Crimea, not on the boards, but on all international venues and meetings, not slogans, but official documents. [[Applause]] For the first time since 2014, a strategy for the occupation and reintegration of Crimea has been developed, approved. The area is 27,000 square kilometres, larger than some countries in Europe and the world, but we're not fighting for hectares -- people, citizens. And for the first time in history, we passed the Law on Indigenous Nations, which established the status and rights of Crimean Tatars. [[Applause]] We're fighting for our young people, and we've greatly simplified schools in Crimea and the temporarily occupied Donbassian access to higher education in Ukraine: without the ZNA, free, without restrictions, without any conditions at any of Ukraine's universities. [[Applause]] We are fighting for the temporarily occupied consciousness of our citizens, so we have launched language for temporarily occupied territories. This is our land, freeing it is our goal. No one will do it for us, it's our philosophy. [[Applause]] This year we have preserved the two-party support of the United States and brought our relationship to a new level, to a very high level. On the basis of my meeting with President Biden, a joint statement was approved, military support, the Charter of Strategic Partnerships between Ukraine and the United States of America was updated. Our relationship with the European Union is based on trust, solidarity, mutual support. This is evidenced by the results of the 23rd Ukraine-EU Summit and its ambitious summary statement. Our goal is to implement the Association Agreement. According to the government, it is estimated that more than 60 percent of all commitments made by Ukraine under the Agreement have been made, with 25 percent only this year. Thank you, Your Honor! [[Applause]] We prove every day that we are able not only to cooperate effectively with NATO in the operations and teachings of the alliance (the interaction in the Black Sea, the activities of the Lithuanian-Polish-Ukrainian Brigade), but also with weapons in our hands to protect our state, democracy, freedom, our property, Ukraine. For the first time in cooperation with Great Britain, we are implementing an ambitious development project for the Ukrainian Navy of 1.7 billion pounds. With Turkey, we're already building the first Corvette for our naval forces. For the first time, four large-scale agreements were made with France for 1.3 billion euros for major investment projects. We have achieved important results in working with our partners: with the IMF, with the World Bank, with the EBRD and other international institutions -- a total of over $2.7 billion. For the first time, we have invited EU leaders to create a regional platform to strengthen energy security. The current nature of this initiative confirms the ongoing energy crisis in Europe. We consistently prove that North Stream 2 is an energy weapon that poses a threat not only to Ukraine, but to the entire region. We are grateful to all those who support us. Thank you very much to all these countries. An important component of our international policy is the support of world Ukraine. I know how important it is for Ukrainians living in the United States, Canada, in the EU, to have multiple citizenship issues. Today I am introducing an appropriate bill for Parliament's consideration, "We're 65 million." [[Applause]] For the first time, Ukrainians around the world will feel, not diaspora, not just Ukrainians, but Ukrainians, equal Ukrainians. And that's also part of our independence when people with equal rights drive straight roads. As far as the roads are In 30 years, Ukrainians have become great drivers -- it's true by learning to avoid the pits on the roads. For the first time in history, opposition criticises power for building roads and bridges. [[Applause]] The special criticism of "The Great Building" echoes from those who, in their own time, were unable to do neither "medium construction", nor even "small". [[Applause]] They also traveled along the roads with holes, leaving holes in the budget. [[Applause]] Everyone thought that good roads and Ukraine were Anthony's, we proved that they were synonymous words. We've already built 13,000 kilometers of roads. [[Applause]] But many high - quality roads do not exist, so the goal for the next two years does not decrease. The goal of ambition is 15,000 kilometers of roads, and not a mile less, and to complete this great reform. [[Applause]] Another important direction is the National Bridge Recovery Program. It has already built and upgraded 560 bridges and bridge crossings, including the legendary bridge in Zaporozhye, which has been underdeveloped for 15 years. Over the next two years, we plan to unite the coasts across Ukraine — 810 more bridges and bridge crossings, including cremenchuts and Jampel bridges. Independence, it has to be felt everywhere, it has to be felt in the air, so we're creating a Ukrainian national airliner. For the first time in years, the carrier will be able to fly to our new regional airports that we are building. In general, we are currently building in 16 cities in Ukraine. We also want to build an international airport on Zakarpatta between Uzhgrad and Mukachev (this is a new project) and two airports in eastern Ukraine, because Donbas is Ukraine. [[Applause]] The first flight of the national carrier will be in 2022. By 2025, the company fleet, our state company, will be fully formed, not less than 20 modern vessels, new vessels. Regular flights will be opened both inside and outside. The Ukrainian carrier is to be seen not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole world, and this will be very helpful to the Open Sky Agreement -- the airline we finally signed with the European Union. Hello. [[Applause]] Therefore, the UNA (Ukraine national airlines), the UNA, will necessarily land in the EU. And such big plans really cover up. Independence is the natural drive of every person, so we're launching 10 new Intersity Plus trains, 80 new electrics, and almost 500 new sleeping Ukrainian cars. An independent country is where you will be healthy regardless of your social status. For the first time, we've launched a program called Health Ukraine, which is for every Ukrainian we've built 600 active parks, 900 sports courses, 193 stadiums and 25 swimming pools. In front of 9,000 more sports courses and the start of the program, the state program: 19 ice arenas, hundreds of DEUSS and sports interns, and new sports palaces. They will become our new places of strength, the health of our nation, the health of our future, or the health of our children. [[Applause]] From the very beginning, we had to take our children to schools and kindergartens for not more than 30 minutes on a quality road. Everything has to be clear and correct and modern, with all international standards. And these new schools and gardens are going to get more and more every day. While we're building, yeah, maybe not much, but over 150 kindergartens, there's going to be 300 more, 200 new schools, there's going to be 300 more. For the first time in 30 years, we started building Anton aircraft again. For the first time in years, we started building our native locomotives and wagons in Cremenchuca. For the first time in years, we started building our tanks in Kharkiv, modern, Ukrainian. [[Applause]] And this construction, it's really big and it's getting bigger every day. Infrastructure is new jobs, new quality of life for everyone. An independent country, it must be. An independent country is a smart country, it's educated, so a strong country can't be with a weak education. We support talented schoolchildren: introducing new awards, new bonuses, new state awards, presidential bonuses. One hundred thousand dollars to the winners, every winner of the international student Olympics in mathematics, physics, information, chemistry. For the first time, we're giving awards for the first time this year, not only to the students, but also to the teachers who prepared these championships. [[Applause]] Ten thousand bracelets each month are awarded to graduates with the highest score of ZNO, 250 students, and 10 best of every region of Ukraine. And for us, every region of Ukraine is the best. This year we have increased scholarships to students to the minimum of living, with the number, the number of scholarships no one will reduce. This is a very important moment. [[Applause]] This year we provided over 60,000 teachers with laptops. And by 2023, everyone has a new laptop, each teacher of our state. For the first time, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, aerospace, energy, biotechnology are not just intelligent words, but priority specialties at the Presidential University, which we are starting to build and create next year. Two years ago, the National Research Fund was working -- it's a grant of scientific support. Over the course of two years, 222 scientific projects totalled about 1 billion dollars. These are scientific developments involving more than one and a half thousand leading and young Ukrainian scientists. For the first time in many years, we are restoring the scientific fleet of our nation. [[Applause]] The last flight, imagine the last flight of the Ukrainian scientific vessel in the World Ocean took place 20 years ago and in the Black Sea 10 years ago. This year we had two ships. Little so far, but they have appeared. Boris Alexander's vessel, which will conduct scientific, environmental research on the Black Sea, and the Noosphere ice creams to explore the world's oceans, and our expeditions to the Ukrainian "Academic of the Vernadian" station in Antarctica. [[Applause]] Our independence is an opportunity to remember and preserve our past. As we're confident in the future, we're building memorials, we're finally building the Babin Jar memorial complex, and next year we're going to complete the building of the Holocaust Memorial Memory Complex. Shared memory, shared pain is what unites us and makes us stronger. And the bearers of this memory are people of an important age. Someone says it's the right thing to say to older people. No, it's not. For everything they've done, they've really done for us, the right thing to do is to say, "people of an age." [[Applause]] I am ashamed that all these years we have done too little for them. For someone, it's just a basic electorate, and for me, it's people who have given their lives for the benefit of Ukraine, for the benefit of our state. So one of our personal priorities is concern for people of an age. In particular, we've already implemented a pension supplement program for people who have reached 80 years and 75 years plus. The following year we are expanding this program for people who have reached 70 years of age. [[Applause]] We make a clear commitment to annual pension indexation. Yes, since March 21, 7.9 million pensioners have been indexed. For the first time in many years, pensions have been substantially increased for winding-up workers and survivors of the Chernobyl disaster. [[Applause]] For the first time in years of independence, we have agreed on the parameters of a reliable mandatory accumulation, finally, of a cumulative retirement system that will allow us to save money for worthy old age. And in the near future, Parliament, confident of that, will consider a bill that is already in place. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in honor of your age, you have every hope. [[Applause]] For the first time, we have introduced a comprehensive approach to solving the problems of people who face, unfortunately, different barriers. These are people with disabilities from childhood who have increased the amount of care allowance. These are low - income families with a 50 - percent increase in payout of 5.5 thousand dollars. This is the first time that children who have suffered from explosions, explosive objects, have been helped. These are people who have suffered domestic violence. This is the first time a subsidy has been introduced for them to create cutlery. These are families with children, fathers who were first given the right to go on vacation to care for newborn children. We have increased state aid for children with very severe diseases. All of these are the characteristics of a country with a European face, or, more simply, a country with a human face. [[Applause]] This also applies to the digital country. Independence is a digital freedom from bureaucracy, queues and corruption. More than 11 million users of our State Plugin, Acts, have already seen this. [[Applause]] Ukraine became the first country in the world to introduce this first – it introduced the digital passport of its national state. We've introduced a digital driver's license that allows you to travel or even open a bank account online. In action, there are digital student tickets, car insurance, electronic smartphone signatures, digital tax numbers, taxes and fines, and a lot more. It's not an imaginary meta-space, it's a meta-universe, it's a reality, it's a real service that helps real-life Ukrainians in real-time, it's now 24/7. And now you're adding a pen to these functions, which is the ability to change the registration online. In the 21st century, people can move freely in their country regardless of any stamps in passports. Action is primarily a social supplement for all citizens of Ukraine. Now it is possible to assign or recalculate a pension to our esteemed people, not a woman in the office, but a grandson on the couch. We're already starting this function, and it's going to cover all Ukrainians, regardless of age. Independence is an opportunity to conduct business independently, honestly, in a transparent way in our country. Business opening services in Ukraine will be the fastest, fastest - to - do services in the world. [[Applause]] The FOP is now open, for example, in 10 minutes, you can see and fill out a declaration, pay taxes. We build our own business regardless of the "hotels" of officials, where all the business wishes are taken into account. That's why we're running, and we're finally launching Acts City. I welcome you all! [[Applause]] A City action that will allow Ukraine to create the most powerful IT hub in Central and Eastern Europe. Ukrainians and entrepreneurs around the world will be able to quickly implement and implement the most extensive innovation and business ideas. In five years, Action City will allow the IT market to double its volume to about $12 billion, and the number of jobs will be up to $450,000. This is going to be one of the best conditions for running IT and the creative industry in the world. In the plans to launch, soon, important functions: an electronic census (E-registration), which will eventually lead to electronic voting. There is a nation at the center of our transformations, and we need to know how many of us we live in. We write that Ukraine will become the second country in the world to conduct a population census in cooperation with Apple in February 2023. [[Applause]] Our goal is to ensure that 100 percent of the country's services can be obtained online, without an official, without queues, without corruption. But fighting corruption is a fair, independent court. The judicial reform in Ukraine is proud here, I think, so far, nothing. We're only at the beginning of this difficult path, we've only voted on the first two laws. I thank every MP who has supported the laws on IHR (High Council of Justice), the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. Thank you. [[Applause]] The judicial reform in Ukraine has not been initiated for the first time, but it will be brought to an end for the first time. [[Applause]] I am grateful to all the national MPs who support such bills once again, and I also want to thank our international partners for supporting us on this difficult path. Thank you. And this path is going to be really unforgivable. For the first time in 30 years, land reform has been fully voted on. Congratulations! [[Applause]] For the first time in 30 years, we're starting to complete, for the first time, the state border of Ukraine across the perimeter of our country. We finally passed the Territorial Defence Act, eight years later. Hello! [[Applause]] We finally confirmed the Crimea. For the first time in 30 years, we started a systematic fight against oligarchs. [[Applause]] Someone says it's not "with," it's "against" the oligarchs, and I say it's not right to say it, it's right to do it. [[Applause]] And I'm sure Ukraine will win this fight, Ukraine will end it. But I don't want to finish my speech on this particular topic, the subject of the oligarchs. I don't want to end up talking about small things, I want to say about the main thing. [[Applause]] I want to talk about the state with no decorations, no bills, to speak to you quite frankly, honestly, because that's who we were, and I want to believe that we are. [[Applause]] We must speak frankly, speak, despite any difficulty, tell the truth, which it is, which we could speak or still can. I want to believe that we can. And then let's be honest: 8 years of war on Donbas, 8 years of Russian annexation of Crimea. And I'm not afraid to tell everyone and speak directly to the Russians. That's why I'm not afraid to talk to him directly, we're not afraid of direct dialogue. We know which of the European countries supports Ukraine, and we thank and thank them. We know which one of the Ukrainians. countries appear to support Ukraine and our independence. We know that our army is the best in the world and will protect us. [[Applause]] Protect us, and honestly, and they all support us, but no one but our army can protect us, it's the truth. And we have to admit, without our troops, we can't stop the war. And we must tell the truth that we cannot stop the war without direct negotiations with Russia. And today everyone, all of them external partners, has admitted it. All the outsiders admitted it, and some of the insides don't admit it. And we need to talk, we need to talk, knowing that we have a strong, powerful army. And don't be afraid to tell each other the truth now. If we want Donbas back, let's go. And if we don't want to, we want to walk and just talk about it, let's not do anything. [[Applause]] And let's put a dot on this right over here. And we'll figure it out in the end: our nation, as far as we can, let's fight for it, for our territories, for all the possibilities, for all of us, for all of us, for all of us, for all of these politicians, for all of these politicians, for all of them, for all of us, for all of us. [[Applause]] With all the businessmen, despite their caliber, until it's too late. We're a big country. Thank you all! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u4	Thank you. There's still, I think, a very important final, very important. Let's get started if we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u5	Yes, the distinguished national MPs and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we move on to the national awards on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the All-Ukrainian referendum on Ukraine's independence, which was initiated and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u6	The Ukrainian President's Order for Personal Courage, revealed in defence of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity, assigned the title Hero of Ukraine with the award of the Golden Star Order to Kotsubaila Dmitry Ivanovich, a volunteer of the Ukrainian Volunteer Corps "The Right Sector". [[Applause]] For a significant personal contribution to government construction, socio-economic, scientific and technical development, cultural and educational development of Ukraine, major achievements, high professionalism and on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the confirmation of the act of independence of Ukraine by the U.S. referendum on December 1, 1991, was awarded the Order of Prince Jaroslav Wise IV of Greenov Boris Viktorovich, director of the Institute of Scientulative Materials of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Ukraine. [[Applause]] It's awarded the First Grade Order. Bondar Mikhail Anatoliyyovich, the chief engineer, the first deputy general manager of the state-owned enterprise, the Southerne Development Office, the city of Dnipro. [[Applause]] Hlavalski Vjacheslav Volodymyrovic, head of the Zaporezki District Public Administration in 1992-1998, Head of the Organising Committee for the holding of the referendum in Zaporozki Region on December 1, 1991. [[Applause]] Sandulaka Leontija Ivanovič is a socio-political actor, scientist, diplomat and co-author of the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act, the city of Chernivci. [[Applause]] It was awarded a third-degree merit order. Mandrica Yuria Pilipovich is an engineer of the Society "Specialized Construction Company Water Project", Winnitsa. [[Applause]] Mochalova Igor Aleksandrovič is the head of the Supervisory Board of the Public Organization of the Poltavian Families of the Fallen Defenders of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Novak Vasil Leonidovich is the director of the National Institute of Blood Pathology and Transfusion Medicine of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Stepan Stepanovich is the head of the public organization Ivano-Frankovska District Association of Families of the Dead, the Dead and the Missing in the ATO Zone. [[Applause]] The Order of the Duke of Olga III was awarded. Bulah Natalija Jurijovnu is the Chief of Medical Services of 128 separate Mountain Storm Brigade operational commanding "West" of the U.S. Army of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, captain of the medical service. [[Applause]] Ludmila Ivanovna is the mother-in-law of a family-type children's home, Lugansk district. [[Applause]] Harchenko Natalija Alexiyevna is the head of the government of the civil organization "Unbreakable Mothers of Ukraine", the city of Kiev. [[Applause]] Shan Raisa Alexandrovna is a member of the government of the "Only Family of Chernigovishte" public organization. [[Applause]] Janko Natalija Viktorovna, head of state health doctor in Volin County. [[Applause]] The honorary title "The National Artist of Ukraine" is assigned to Sklar-Condráševska Valentina Anatoliyevna – artists of the instrumental song duet "Neopalima kupina", Kyiv region. [[Applause]] The title "Deserved Artist of Ukraine" has been awarded to Lastovetske Tetjana Mikolayovni, the main Hormeister of Suma National Academy of Drama and Music comedy by the name of Szczepkin. [[Applause]] The honorary title "Deserved Architect of Ukraine" of the Verbovite Jury Volodymyrovich is assigned to the head of the architectural workshop, Ternopil district. [[Applause]] The honorary title "Deserved Teacher of Ukraine" was assigned to Savichuk Irina Grigorovni, a teacher of Kramator Ukrainian School of the Kramator City Council, Donetsk Region. [[Applause]] The honorary title "Deserved Donor of Ukraine" was awarded to Vashchenka Sergey Volodymyrovich, a donor, a reserve for the Gitomyrian Special Battalion of Territorial Defence. [[Applause]] The honorary title "Deserved Doctor of Ukraine" has been assigned. Katerina Petrovni, head of the House of Birth, No. 1 of the Odessa City Council. [[Applause]] Gudimi Igor Volodymyrovich is the head physician of the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Rivnenska Central District Hospital". [[Applause]] Mikoli Alexiyovich is the head of the department of the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Czerka District Children's Hospital". [[Applause]] Marchenko Natalija Mironovni is the head of the community non-profit facility 'Herson Children's Hospital'. [[Applause]] Smyrna Oleni Georgievni is the head of the department of the municipal non-commercial enterprise Kirovograd County Hospital. [[Applause]] The honorary title "Deserved Education Officer of Ukraine" was assigned to Ilyin's Valentine Mikhajlovich, a senior professor at the Hmeljna Hmělnice Humanities and Pedagogical Academy. [[Applause]] Honorary title of "Deserved Lawyer of Ukraine" is assigned to Suridy Daria Alexandrovni, the First Deputy Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Applause]] The honorary title "Deserved Employee of Physical Culture and Sport of Ukraine" is assigned to Bugajov Anatolia Ivanovich, director of the Mikolai Institute for Children's and Young Sports of the Olympic Reserve of Light Athletics. [[Applause]] President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us thank the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenski, the government in charge of the Prime Minister and all those who participated in the plenary. [[Applause]] A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Colleagues, today is the day of the prosecutor’s day. Let's welcome a colleague. We have the former representatives of this sector among the people's deputies. The activities of the prosecutor’s office play a significant role in upholding the rule of law in Ukraine, strengthening the rule of law, protecting human rights, and protecting citizens. We sincerely wish the prosecutors good health, hard work, new gains in the construction of Ukraine as a legal state. We give them our warmest greetings. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25. A break with a replacement for the performance, I'm sorry. Yes, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parobius. Break with a replacement for the show, the EC faction and Voice, three minutes. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u9	In these days, eight years ago, an event took place, which was a turning point for every informed Ukrainian, and on the night of November 30, 13th, the Berkutite in Kiev was brutally beaten by Ukrainian students. And Ukraine rose up. The Ukrainians have demonstrated that they have dignity, that they respect freedom, that they are for Ukraine, and not for the President. On the night of December 1, we were standing in the Mikhail Square. I remember that night when people traveled to Midan from all parts of Ukraine, and on December 1, a million Ukrainians went to Midan, and they returned to Midan. And despite being beaten and killed, we were able to defeat the criminal and treacherous regime of Yanukovic because we were for Ukraine, not for the President. After that, the Midan’s self - defense fighters went straight from Midan to the front to protect Ukraine from Russian invaders and their mercenaries. To protect Ukraine so that democratic elections can be held so that a democratic Ukrainian state can develop so that power can be chosen in free elections and the authorities are aware of their responsibility to the Ukrainian people. Sadly, however, there is another calamity in Ukraine. Trouble, because again, eight years after Maidan, power structures are used, not against the aggressor, but against Ukrainian volunteers, Ukrainian soldiers, journalists, against patriotic opposition. Trouble is, Ukraine's top management is covering and letting go of the gong killers and breaking up the operation on the Wagners. Trouble, because the President of Ukraine is humiliating our spies, putting their lives at risk, the safety of their families. The misery that, after 8 years of war, Ukraine once again became totally dependent on Russia in a strategic resource — energy. There is a problem in Ukraine today. The Ukrainians won't let you destroy the state. We paid too much for our independence. We Ukrainians, we have dignity, we respect our freedom and independence. We're for Ukraine, not for the President. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u10	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Please, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, and messages to the people’s deputies. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, Francis Igor Pavlovich, "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u11	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. Igor Fries, 84th constituency, Servant of the People. You know, literally two words, listen to me, stop talking, because it's really important. I've been in this rostrum for these two years many times. Each time I introduced some laws, and the support of these bills was very high. Thank you for that, colleagues. But I'm not talking about laws right now. Two days ago, the city of Burstin again exploded in 84 counties. People have been hurt, four people are now in foster care, one in critical condition. Burstin T.E. is one of the components of the Westering Child, a company that exploits the privatized property with you. Many have suffered this year. This is the fourth accident this year in this company. My numerous appeals as a defendant from this district to the relevant services, to the Cabinet of Ministers, to environmental inspection, to the Ministry of Energy are not the result. For the last time, they did not allow for an eco inspection five times during this year. For once there was a check. You know what they wrote? They were fined for unwashed cars and unscathed garbage. And for the fact that the Burstin TEZ and the Burstin Energy Island, which forms electricity for the Ivano-Frankiv region, makes us pay more than the whole of Ukraine for light and throws out 180,000 tons of pollutants, which is why the Ivano-Frankiv region is third in the pollution of air in Ukraine next to Lugansk and Donetsk, no one pays for it and sells electricity to the West. I have a very large request, my fellow believers, to all of us and to the leadership of our nation: to pay attention to the illegal activities of the Burstin Tés, which cause human sacrifices. On more than one occasion, my colleagues in this rostrum talked about this. I ask you to take the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister for personal control, and you have to do something about it. It can no longer be that every time, excuse me, black smoke (as the Pope is not selected) in Burstina every day, the snow in Burstina is black, not white. We have to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u13	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have listened to a rather optimistic statement by the President of Ukraine, a call to the Ukrainian people, including a large component of our small entrepreneurs, and how they will now start to live much better. I have only one question: Why are FOPs, small entrepreneurs, now under the walls of the Supreme Council? Why do they protest that they will essentially be put on the verge of survival as of January 1st? And instead of going to Parliament right now and looking at Bill 5866, which allows the FOPs to solve the problems that are facing them, we pretend that nothing is happening. The Fatherland faction requires the adoption of a bill that will protect small businesses in Ukraine and allow FOPs to work, create jobs, give additional GDP to the country, not to close and not to go abroad, which they are actually forced to do. And in the same context, let's be honest, and let's say at least a few things that are contained in Bill 5600, the absolutely murderous bill for business that was adopted yesterday in this room. Here are some things. Tax now, it turns out, will be granted the right to write off debts to entrepreneurs, to enterprises without a court order. Tell me, is this legal and constitutional? Or a tax-free court will be able to ban corporate directors from going abroad if the company has a tax debt. Don't these laws remind you of anything like that? I'm not talking about agriculture or farmers anymore. When, in fact, a minimum tax liability for farmers and crop-based VAT is imposed on farmers from each hectare, over one and a half thousand dollars will have to be paid by farmers to pay the minimum tax liability. In the event of the sale of 72,000 dollars per year, farmers will already have to pay 18 percent of VAT to the government budget. You know, with laws like 5,600, they're about to pass the Five Wheels Act. Is that the destruction of the farm? Is that actually killing a Ukrainian village and forcing people to sell land? That's what these laws are really about in this room. That's why we, as Fatherland, require these laws to promise, to enable the Ukrainian village to live, and to enable entrepreneurs to work. This would be the right state policy. Because from words to action, there's a very big gap, and by real laws, we see real politics that's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u14	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u15	Dear "servants" -- and you're really expensive because you're cheap on the Ukrainian budget -- you're very beautiful today, you're very handsome, you've taken off your sound, you've bought your valentine, you've bought your oligarche envelopes, and you've put on the shirts that you're President. Here's our worldview and mental depth difference: we're in Ukraine and you're in Zelensky. And today, Zelensky, instead of reporting to society and giving a strategic path to Ukraine (I'm going to quote the classics now): "A plane bomb (or fly), we're all going to be bombed," -- he was just drawing an example of the greatest population, playing the role of Ostap Binder, you know, and New Vasuka. But the key quintession of these promises of his populists was one phrase about direct negotiations with the Russian Federation. As he did in all the other talks that Zelensky repeatedly gave to Ukrainian society over the past two and a half years, he did not say the key: who occupied Ukrainian Crimea and Ukrainian Donbas. He never dared to call the name of Putin, whom he still wanted to look in his eyes, stand on his knees, look into his eyes, and have direct talks with him. This is the Kremlin's scenario to make sure that at the dinner table there is a Kagebešnik Putin and a populist Zelenski, who has never become a statesman. So that we don't have our partners in the international coalition, so that we don't have the Normandy format that pushes together on Putin to continue the sanctions. Before the election, we heard from Zelensky that you could agree somewhere in the middle, the main thing would be desire. And he promised us Martian, Geneva, Budapest, Bucharest, and other formats. Everything that goes into the same format has been found: The bank is the Kremlin. Because they've been sitting on the Bank for a long time now with the Kremlin on a direct dialogue. And they have this direct dialogue that was betrayed by Ukrainian spies who are betrayed by the Ukrainian army. And that's why today you were trying to close the word of the Ukrainian opposition that was going to ask Zelenski one question with your backs in the shoes that you bought for the money of the oligarchs in the envelopes. First of all, who's betraying the Ukrainian army? The second is who betrays Ukrainian spies? The third is who's the mole? Fourth, where's the coup? You know, we were here in 2013-2014 and we remember Janukovic protecting himself with the autosaws that you've surrounded this Parliament today. Never have they tested opposition like that, fearing that they would bring tears with direct questions. Mr. Zelensky, you will not be able to hide from the questions of society. Direct negotiations are the path to surrender and betrayal. And you announced it today, just like the coup you announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u16	Please, Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich. Alexi Honcharenko, please, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u17	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Guys, we're having Procurator's Day. We have actually very decent prosecutors, and some of them are already expelling this authority because they, for example, have made a processual co-existence of the Wagnerian case. But there are other prosecutors. And here's a recent story about one gentleman, and I'm just saying his last name, and I want to hear him again, Mr. Nekludov, maybe he'll sing it for us today in the form of a replica. On one occasion, he asked the MP about Roshen’s company. Well, this authority is fighting Ukrainian journalists, Ukrainian spies and Ukrainian airmen, and they want to fight candy, too, for God's sake. After that, on the TV channel "Friend" -- friends, look at this channel, you'll hear the truth there -- so on the air of this channel, I commented on Mr. Nekludov's actions. He really likes to sing, by the way, I hope that Mr. Nekludov called Psong today and sang to him online, he liked to sing to him on his birthday, and I think this time he did it too. So here he is, including singing in French, there's this "Jai besoin de toi." Vladlen." There's such a wonderful fantastic song that you haven't watched, and you can see how Mr. Nekludov sings -- another great talent in our greatness. So I said to Mr. Nekludov, "Here's the merd." By the way, what I'm saying is, when I say the word "putin," I don't mean a mess or anything, I'm talking about one bastard, the Russian president. But Mr. Neclaud was very offended, very offended, by the way, I don't know what to do. We're an agrarian country, and there's got to be a lot of uncharacteristics. I don't know what the question is. But he took offense and tried me. I understand that it wasn't him who brought it to trial. It was Vladimir Zelensky. I understand you want to shut down the opposition. I understand how it hurts when you hear the truth. But you're not going to get anything, and I say to your face, it's not going to work. You can go to the courts, you can run around the hall, you can find criminal cases, where the D.B.I., where some other "merde" you mean, which you like to run. You can't shut us down, we'll tell the truth about who you are. And I'd really like to hear a song from you in French, and I'd like to give you a special opportunity to do it with a replica, because it's not just the Dragons listening to your songs. And we, friends, see what's happening in our country. We see a president speaking and pretending we're okay. We see the President trying to hide himself from questions to him with a reward. We can see how his pedestals, largely attacked the opposition, tried to bring them to trial. We're not afraid of you, you're sure to lose. That's for you to know. And for the first time, let me tell you guys, get your things together and get out of here with Zelenski!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, the Voice faction, Kira Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u19	Good afternoon. Kira Ruddick, head of the Voice Party. You know, we've never lived as well as the President told us today. We wanted to hear today's strategy for solving the crises that our country is now in. It's an energy crisis, it's a crisis involving COVID, it's an economic crisis, it's a risk to Donbass. What did we hear instead? The only thing is, everything's fine, everything's fine. How do we imagine that the President and his team will solve problems if he doesn't even admit it? And the whole room claps because everyone believes that everything is good. Please see: 24 million vaccinations: "Uh-oh!".. This is definitely not enough for us to go through the next year without the elbows. That's an absolute lie. It's not "Uh-oh!"this is a failure. We're energy independent. Are you laughing at us? Look, right now in almost every region, almost every community has a list of enterprises that are going to use screw-offs. What is going on? And the hall screams, "Uh-oh!".. Five percent on loans to entrepreneurs. Now we have 10 percent credit for entrepreneurs -- that doesn't help anyone. Because businesses now need stability, not constant and systematic statements of coup d'états that kill Ukrainian business more than anything that President Zelenski said today and can say. Business needs predictability, business needs stability, not constant populist statements. But does anyone talk about it? No, the hall just screams, "Uh-oh!".. And the last is a statement about direct negotiations with Russia. Do you know how to talk to the enemy? From one point of view, we have a strong army and a state defense order, and the support of our international partners. For two and a half years, we hear about the President's attempts to look Putin in the eye. We can see that now these attempts have not led to anything. Why does the strategy change now to go back to zero? It's totally unacceptable. Well, that's the main thing. Today I wanted to hear about two things: what's going on with the Wagnerian case, and what's the situation after the coup? We haven't heard a word about it. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Ruddick, for saving my time. We have Vladen Nekludov, mentioned his last name in the previous speech, he wants the right to repeat one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u21	Good afternoon, dear fellows! [[B in m in s a l in]] Lord Nekludov, faction of the Servant of the People. Thank you very much for letting me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u22	In Irina Heratchenko's previous speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u23	..remembered my last name and mentioned to me that I had the right to a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u24	Oh, Goncharenko, I'm sorry. Goncharenko. Alexi Honcharenko named Nekludov. [[B in m in s a l in]] From where? Please, from the place, Vladlen Mikhailovich. But give it one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Lord Nekludov, faction of the Servant of the People. I respond with a replica of the performance that was heard from one of the representatives of the European Solidarity Party, who sing every time, sing in order to provoke society into provocations and riots. They're not interested in developing society, they're interested in carrying dirt, carrying divisions. Simple words that don't matter. So is the same potcherenko that always does. He used to sing for the OPCW Party, for the Party of the Regions, now he's singing for the European Solidarity Party. It says he doesn't have any constant values. And that's why I'm going to say, you're doing better than working for an aggressor country, and the businesses that work for you there, they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u26	I'm going to see if there's a replica on the line. If that's all right, I'll give it to you after the next deputy. This is Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov, the faction of European Solidarity. I give the word to Ivanni Orestovni Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u27	Dear Ukrainians, you know, the events of the bad are so great that it's the impression that the authorities are deliberately draining society with these events and consciously helping the enemy. Every day, the country shudders at some new spices, but it is not those who are responsible for these spices that make it extremely extreme for those who speak the truth about them. It turns out that it's not Zelensky and Jermak who are committing treason or crimes, it's journalists who are telling the truth about this society. It turns out that Zelensky and Jermak are not responsible for the use of DSNS and the Ukrainian Armed Forces for private purposes, as well as residences for their own party, and this is what journalist Tkac found guilty of forsaking into the privacy of this self-proclaimed path. Colleagues, any kind of butaphoria looks like it's only from a distance, and you're trying to decorate yours desperately and show society under the light of sophies and, in fact, only by a clear script, because otherwise, everyone will actually see that the king is delirious and it's winding up. But I'd like, colleagues, to stop at something else today. Attacks on the "Primary" channel, attacks on the public language, attacks and pressure on the "Kiev Post" and the twisting of the hands of Radio Freedom journalists in the state bank, not so much the "Ukraine 24" channel. It's not over. Recently, a huge number of people who don't subscribe to Government Courier have received such a message as "The Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers" with their own blankets, tariff blankets themselves, which were sent out by a million dollars. I wonder how much it cost the taxpayers to pay this "Ze-Balister" who issued the Cabinet of Ministers? I would also like to inform society today that the authorities are going not only to develop their propaganda channel "Dom" but the authorities are gathering from another television channel – the parliamentary television channel to make other families a propaganda tool. As far as I'm concerned, as of December 15, the briefings of the National Deputies and committee meetings will no longer be broadcast fully, but journalists will be told about the victories of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Office of the President. Moreover, journalists at the Council Channel are forbidden to invite in this number of opposition deputies. As a parliament, we have this authoritarian madness to stop and, in fact, to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u28	Thank you, Ivanna Orestovna. Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u29	Grandmaster Mikola, European Solidarity. I'd like to give Sofia the floor to Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u30	Please, Sofia Fedina, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u31	We've had a wonderful show today. From this show you could laugh, you could applaud if it wasn't so sad. Because this show was a total lie. My colleague, Mikola Veliczovich, now holds the portrait of Jaroslav Žuravl, which I held as Zelenski performed here. He was the only one who was totally "don't give a shit" about Jaroslav Crane. Like a year ago, more than once, when Zelensky took over the personal evacuation of Jaroslav Žuravl, he left him to bleed for four days and went under his own personal control to Hersonian. Jaroslav Jurabel died under the personal control of President Zelenski. The Supreme Council Hall unanimously voted for the President to be named Hero in death. But Greensky didn't give a shit. Just like he doesn't give a shit about what's going on in the state. That's why total lies continue -- lies about the great respect for our history and the Dignity Revolution. Today is the eighth anniversary of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution. And it is in these days that the Greens police are nightmares to the House of the Hero of Heaven, the widow of Hero Julia Zepun and her children. Because, you see, Zelensky didn't like the words of Jaroslav Bondarenko, an A.T.A., about the disgrace of traitors. Green had lunch and ran off to pursue his ATO hero textbooks. We have a complete lie about our army. He was talking today about how proud we should be of her. This is not the way to tell empty lies, but to guard the execution of the defense order, it is the first time in two years that boys and girls have to pay for the front. You don't have to lie about the big rocket program, but you have to buy willows, Neptunes, willows and other rockets that were developed in previous years. We need to buy an essential fuel for our military on the front. And we have to stop lying about what direct negotiations with Putin will do, because fighting an Ethiopian and a clown is an unequal principle. And we need to put together people, we need to put together all the factions, and we need to work out a plan of opposition together. There was so much lies today. And I'm very sorry that many people will buy it. But today, on this day of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution, I ask everyone to mention dignity, rights and freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u33	Please pass Alexia to the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u34	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u35	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, I'm holding the book now. This book will definitely reach President Zelensky, called American Kleptocracy. It's easy to translate, it's one of the most famous U.S. corruption investigators who wrote a book about the most violent cases in the U.S. or around the United States or using the U.S., where the world's largest financial frauds took place. And, guys, I want to tell you, today Greensky started his speech with words he wants to say "first time." For the first time, the Ukrainian became not only the hero of the book, but he became the number one champion in financial affairs in the United States. This is about Igor Kolomojski – the closest partner, friend, brother, the Zelinski feast. They're over there with Jermak arguing about who's next of kin. And this is a huge challenge for us, my friends. This book is read in the United States; it is on the tables of the entire Western elite. And what do they read about Ukraine? Maybe it's about the "Mray" plane, maybe about our fight at Donbassa? No, they read about the oligarchs who brought their presidents to power. And now the Servant of the People comes out to us in T-shirts for the President, against the oligarchs. I imagine the bearded face of Igor Valeriovich laughing when he came up with this T-shirt. He's got a lot of pleasure. He's got a good sense of humor, you can't help but agree. You know, exactly two and a half years ago -- we now have the equator of the Zelensky presidency -- I posted a poster at the gates of the Marian Palace the day Zelensky was declared president. Do you remember that deadly kiss from Breženev and Honekker? It was on the Berlin Wall. And there was a sign that said, "Give us, God, a living among this mortal love." Friends, this is about us, about Ukraine: give us, God, today to survive among this deadly love Igor Valeriovich Kolomoysky, Vladimir Alexander Zelensky, well, to them joined, l’amour de trois (now popular French language) Andri Borisovich Jermak. Friends, we need to read, we need to know, and we need to understand that this is definitely not the way to develop our state when investors hear about the coup d'état. By the way, what time is the coup d'état? Because I've been waiting in the morning. Then investors see a book about our oligarch presidents -- that's bad. Friends who don't know English yet, but want to read books, I invite you, friends, to Goncharenko Centers, 22 of them in a country where children and adults learn English for free, financial literacy, by the way, French too. Friends, come and we'll get better.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u36	Thank you. And the last performance is Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u37	Please pass the microphone to Alexander Kachuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u38	Please, Alexander Kachura.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u39	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, this is where individual colleagues from this rostrum said for a year that Zelensky was pouring something together. I agree with you, Zelensky is pouring. He pours out the corrupts, he pours out the smugglers, he pours "wools in the law," and he pours out the oligarchs you stand for in the walls of this Parliament, I'm absolutely sure of it, because Zelensky is the first President of Ukraine to go with a cross so completely, I think, what no President of Ukraine has done with an oligarch. He did not want to become, like some, a partner of the oligarchs, he did not want to bargain with them in the economic interests of these oligarchs, but in the agreement of the interests of Ukraine, because he advocated the interests of Ukraine. So I'm addressing all the MPs regardless of the political factions, so let's remember what we were elected to this Parliament for. I think now a huge number of people are watching our performances with great hope, and it's time, I think, to work for those who chose us. I also turn to those who are trying to balance the situation: It is time to work for children, but not for their children (Yes, Peter Alexiyovich, who are learning abroad?) and for those children we have all over the country. The time has come to work for people of an important age, as the President has said, but not for their parents, but for all Ukrainians. So I'm asking you to unite the entire Parliament now so that people feel worthy, after all, so that we can work out the bills and support them, which relate to pensions that apply to salaries that apply to tariff policies now. And this needs to be clearly supported by the President, not to be played by individual financial and industrial groups, telling all kinds of nonsense here. Make sure that the beard itself does not grow, for such nonsense can make the beard grow very simple and fast. Now I want to say that we all have to work here for every Ukrainian, because, just as the Ukrainians have brought you to the walls of Parliament, they can also take you out of the walls of this Parliament. And don't forget that. Because sometimes what you're saying is not that it doesn't bind to common sense, it doesn't just relate to some reality, what you're talking about here. You don't have to build a parallel reality. Because people, they're smart, they see everything, and you won't be able to fool them again. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u40	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. The performances are over. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u41	Please invite the deputies into the hall, we'll continue the meetings. Dear colleagues, we continue our plenary session. There's been an application for a recess with a replacement for the faction of the political party "Slut of the People" and the MP's political party "For the Future." Please, Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u42	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine has launched a program for the reconstruction and development of sports licenses in Ukraine, with a total of 18. One of these is in the city of Berdichev. A recent decision has been taken by the District Council of Žitomir on the allocation of funds for the design of the reconstruction of the Berdichov International Sports Profile. For almost 80 thousand Berditch implementation of this project could be a growth point based on the development of sports infrastructure and sporting events of the whole of Ukraine and the international scale. For the city, this proved to be an event that would stimulate development. But after that decision, a well-known theorist decided that whoever needed this Berditch had better develop the Zitomirsk, exclusively in Zitomir, not out there, and would like to control the whole thing. The main task for the head of the shell was to quickly find another, more attractive to build, a bet, and preferably in Žitomir. For the purposes of this, the Gitomierian Districtman was selected, who specializes in academic disciplines, for there is a land where much can be built, and not only in sports. And the most cynical thing about this situation is not that in Berdicheva there was a chance for development, but that the difference in the coin in this case was children. On the one hand, 140 children of the Berdichov Sportsman who were given hope and were taken away without offering any alternative to the development of the establishment, and on the other hand, 400 children of the Žitomirski District List with an academic profile that was placed before the fact. At the moment, children from rural areas who find themselves in difficult circumstances and who are prone to academic disciplines (this is physics, mathematics, chemistry, biology). A unique method that has been developed by a teaching group for more than 30 years has led thousands of successful young professionals out of the walls. These are children who, by their personal work rather than by their diplomas, have paved the way for a better future. A non-professional and dilettarian approach to resolving the fate of the two institutions, the head of the shellhead struck the image of the honourable deputies of the district council, the leadership of the area and the authority in general, creating a tense situation with his incompetent hands in the education environment of the Zitomir region. Could the Berdichov Sportsman’s and the Žitomirski Districtman be gathered together at a table and speak from A to J all the development scenarios? You could have. You should have. And say frankly, "We see your development in this way, your development in this way. Let's talk about that. We took the money from you, but we'll make one, two, three for you." Was there a time for this? More than four months were known about the availability of financial resources that would be channelled from the balance sheet for the development of a sports ticket, but in the meantime, the head of the scam did nothing but demolish the public. We, the members of the Supreme Council of Žitomirščina, will not let the education system in the Žitomirsk region be destroyed and we will do everything we can to ensure that all communities are involved in sport.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u43	Thank you. Please move on to daytime issues. Please, we have a draft (registration number 6339) decree on the annual award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to pre-school, general, vocational (professional) and extra-school staff. I suggest we address this issue in a simplified manner, which requires 150 votes. Please put to the vote. [[12:36:36]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Thank you. Please welcome the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation of Koleboshin Sergey Valeriyovich to the report’s rostrum. Please report to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u44	Dear friends, the support of a teacher is one of the priorities of any state that cares about its future. Ukraine is such a state. Of course, ways can be different. It's also an increase in social standards and working conditions, and it's now announced by the President to raise wages. In fact, it is very symbolic that today’s pay for teachers in Ukraine has increased by almost 9 percent. We're almost going out on the education and general secondary education laws, four living minimums. But of course, we are not going to stop there, and today the President of Ukraine has also stressed this during his speech. Well, one of the main factors is to celebrate the best, those who are developing our education by their daily work, is developing our state accordingly. For this purpose, in 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine launched the Supreme Council Prize for Teachers of the System of General Secondary Education, Vocational and Technical Education, Preschool Education and Extraschool. And now our call, and for that, the entire committee is very grateful to you, it's greatly increased the amount of this bonus (about six times), and it's nearly doubled the number of winners of this prize. Now, today it's 60 living minimums, and since 2022, the number of winners has been 54. This year, the winners represent all the pillars and links of education. The committee unanimously supported the nominations offered by the district councils of Kiev and recommended that the Supreme Council accept this decision and support the best of the best. We support Ukrainian teachers, we support our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u45	Thank you. And you're from the committee, too? And you're from the committee, too? Thank you for saving the time. Please sign up for the performances from the MP factions: in and out of two minutes. Please, Petty Officer Helen Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Julia Grishni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u47	Please, Julia Grishin, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u48	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the honourable presidency, we have today this fine and positive example, when, I am sure, we will all now support this determination, which is really the determination for our future, for the future of our children and for the future of our teachers. To raise a new generation, to bring about changes in education, to influence society -- these are the basic tasks facing our teachers today at all levels of education. Our teachers are the key inspiration for our children. Today, our teachers work overtime, under difficult conditions: some of the children work remotely, some of the children learn in classes. And it is in these difficult circumstances that we must support our teachers. So, colleagues, I, as I continue with Sergio Koleboshin, ask the entire hall to unite and vote in support of our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u49	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Grisha Julia Mikolayevna. Please, Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, MP's Party for the Future. Please, Constance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u50	I'd like you to pass it on to Constancewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u51	Irina Konstanovic, 23th constituency, MP's Party for the Future. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask not only to support this decision, but to support all three of the decisions presented to us today by the committee of profile. This is certainly one of the best and most progressive initiatives in the Supreme Council. But, at the same time, we need to talk about this as a dot-to-do solution to the question of encouraging education and noting the results of their work. What do we see in reality? We see that the issue of education, it's been preserved, and it hasn't been resolved for years. Regardless of what legislative initiatives there are, how to increase the real pay of all educational workers: preschool (and there is a minimum wage of 6,000 bracelets) and secondary education, and vocational higher education, extra-school, vocational, technical education. Regrettably, this issue is still unresolved, despite the fact that we have already registered a bill in the preceding summons. Clearly, then, we need to support the encouragement of teachers, extra - school workers, vocational education, and preschool. But, along with giving them such prizes, we need to motivate the government to take radical steps and increase wages, as has been announced to the medical community, from the following year. We call for a "For the Future" MP group to support the education community's salary from next year. Therefore, we thank the committee and ask that we unite, in the matter of education, all the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u53	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, as soon as we witnessed President of Ukraine's speech, we learned that everything was going well in the country. There are roads in the country, this part we knew. The country is developing medicine, there is no problem with vaccination, and there is much else. The President forgot to say that another promise is being made: teachers will finally receive 4,000 from the President. True, not all will receive a few tens, which will be awarded. Is that good? Yes. Is that right? Yes, of course. But this does not solve the systemic problems of supporting and providing teachers in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the promises we hear from the authorities, the budgets we have for high school funding, absolutely prevent us from talking about the promise of full pay to teachers. We've heard that there's going to be an 8 percent increase in teachers' salaries next year. Friends, 8 percent is not what you should be proud of, 8 percent is a disgrace. Because 8 percent is the percent of inflation. We're actually keeping wages at the same level that they were at, and we're saying it's a big victory from the present power. It's not a victory, my friends, it's the result of reckless politics and misdetermined priorities. We have more money on the roads next year than on teachers ’ salaries. That's what teachers need to hear -- those are the priorities that the authorities are putting in today. And, yes, $4,000 30, 50 to the teachers -- that's great, we have to reward and support them. But let's be honest, this is not a systematic approach. It's not like it's going to let us get into the best profession so that the best teachers can teach our children with you, for a better future for them. But the determination must, of course, be supported. And we hope that the rest of the thousands of teachers will also receive the promised wages from President Greensky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u54	Thank you, Inna Romanovna. Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Oleg the Synth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u56	Please, Oleg Blue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian teachers! "European Solidarity" will support the decision because we advocate that Ukrainian teachers be properly evaluated. But I have a question. Of course, 30 teachers today deserve the prizes of the Supreme Council. But what should 440,000 Ukrainian teachers do? And where is Greensky's address today about the Ukrainian teacher's place? Because for the first time, I repeat that for the first time, today's authorities tricked teachers so boldly and cynically when before the election they promised to pay their teachers a salary of 4,000 euros or dollars. Does the increase from 1 December to 8 per cent of teachers' wages compensate for inflation by 10 per cent or compensate for growth in products by 40-60 per cent? What to do with Montenegrin teachers where September 31st did not open their doors? What should the teachers of the Valley OTH do who were forced to strike in connection with the failure to pay their wages? Today's authorities have transferred power and spending to the local communities, but they forgot to transfer the funds. What is more, the money that was to go to teachers' salaries, spent on energy resources. But, dear teachers, today the authorities are your students. And I have a rhetorical question for today’s teachers: Please tell me, what school was the authority of today? What lessons did today’s authorities teach that led the country to such a state? But I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u58	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear comrades, the coup is over! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, well, surely we've all been waiting today, and where's the riot? On December 1 came the snow probably did not allow which fell out. I'll be back in the next speech, not enough minutes to tell you what I'm seeing. But I want to speak in defense of the journalists right now. No one has the right to call TV channels a liar. I was against the adventure with the Wagnerians, but I said that a year and a half ago because this operation was an adventure, with increased risks. And the President put a dot on this issue after a year and a year and a half, but it would be quicker without a choice. But journalists have a right to talk about what they want, if that's within the law. And as for the secrets, the secret that has been put into the hands of journalists is a society. Take care, authorities, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u60	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Please, "Trust," Larissa Bilozer. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, of course, the "Trust" Group will support this decision and the following two – the award of prizes and teachers and representatives of school and preschool. But in fact, I would like to see improvements in the legal field on the spot. And what's basically lost and lost sight of is preschool and high school. Because we need to make changes to the Law on Preschool Education, extra-primary. Today we have a difficult situation at places where we have low wages, no pay. We know that preschools, preschools on the shoulders of local self-governance, so they don't get bonuses, they get naked salaries. And so it's also very important to predict government subsidies, because it's all on the shoulders of local self-government today. And the New Ukrainian School is, of course, impossible without a new Ukrainian garden, and it is time for Parliament to pay attention and address these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u62	Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. Please. Let's go to the vote. The Committee's conclusion is to accept it as a whole. I'm voting on the bill of decision 6339 on the annual award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to preschool, general, vocational (professional) and extra-school staff. I'm betting on the vote for the whole decision. Vote. [[12:51:04]] For 305 Thank you. 305. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on to the next issue of order of the day, this is Decree 6346. Draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists for 2020 I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please put to the vote. [[12:51:42]] For 248 Decision taken. The report invites the head of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitalyovich, and the authors. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u63	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Let's try it briefly. Since 2019 the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award Order has been in operation for young scientists. And every year we have jobs that we value as a united competition commission and that we support or not support the committee. Last year we increased this bonus to 60 living minimums, which this year will amount to 136 thousand 200 dollars for each job that will be the winner. So every year we have an increase in the competition, and this year 121 jobs were put out, four jobs per prize. This is the record number of applications for the entire award period. The Ministry of Education and Science did not support three prizes because it did not meet the formal requirements, and another four prizes because of the same inadequacy were removed from the committee’s consideration. The United Competition Commission has worked very well, and I want to thank you as the head of the Joint Competition Commission to all experts who have helped us to review and evaluate these works for free. So this year, 30 jobs have become winners, and 30 jobs are 67 scientists, because some of these were done by entire teams of authors. The committee unanimously supported and recommended to the Supreme Council the outcome of the consideration of accepting this decision on the basis and in general. Therefore, I am very grateful for the support of young scientists. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u64	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please, Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Grishku Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u66	Please, Gritchcock Roman, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! What is this decision about? This provision for 30 prizes for young scientists. Each prize is $136 000 200. Each of these works is followed by either one or several scientists. 67 scientists who are going to get this money. In total, it's 4 million dollars from the Supreme Council's apparatus, which is the taxpayer's money. So first of all, I want to thank the taxpayers who support Ukrainian scientists. Secondly, I would like to thank the Supreme Council's apparatus, our committee, and all the experts who have joined in appreciating these jobs. It's really a big job being done to figure out the 30 best jobs that these costs are going to get. I would like to thank all those who support this decision and support the prizes for young scientists. What would you like to say? Science needs to be financed. Today, the president, speaking here, said about the National Research Fund and about the fact that this fund was only working. For several years several competitions have been held, but scientists have already allocated about 1 billion dollars to grant funding for scientific research. And that's the way we have to go. We have, first of all, to ensure the execution and financing of all the competitions that have been held and to invest as much money as possible in science precisely through grant independent funding. So, dear colleagues, let us support scientists, support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u69	Thank you. Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u70	Irina Miroslavna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u71	Irina Konstanovic, MP's Party for the Future. The major MPs of our group, of course, support this decision, because it is really designed to support the scientific potential of our country. But we think that these costs and this amount of scholarships are not enough to build scientific potential in the country. We encourage you to increase the number of such scholarships next year, at least start at 50 to meet the real need to encourage scientists to do new innovations. And our second proposal is not only to increase the amount of such prizes, but also to involve other possibilities in financing Ukrainian science. Because we see that 60 million Ukrainians are 30 scholarships, and at that cost, it's too little. That's why we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u72	Thank you, Irina Miroslavina. Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, faction of the Voice Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u73	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, today we are voting on a decision to award awards to scientists. That's good. A number of tens of people will be able to receive funding and reward for the work they have done. And tomorrow we're going to vote on the state budget, and in this state budget, science funding is going to be back to 0.3 percent of GDP. And this is in contrast to the fact that the Science Act states that there should be at least 1.7 percent of GDP. This is because in Western countries, in Europe, the financing of science is up to 3 percent of GDP, and again, we have 0.3 to 0.3 percent of GDP allocated to science. These are the real priorities that we see. It is not the prizes that measure priorities, but the real distribution of large sums of the state budget. And now they're taking priority on the roads, not on supporting Ukrainian scientists. Similarly, we do not see any steps towards reforming the science system. We don't see any steps towards reforming the frame attestation system. I am very happy to know that one of our colleagues in parliament yesterday failed to prove that he had been awarded an honest scientific degree. This is, of course, very good, and I'm grateful to the Minosveti, for perhaps the first time in this rostrum, for this decision that was made. But that doesn't cancel the fact that we're continuing to defend plagiarism dissertations, that no one wants to do anything about it. And that's what we should be talking about. But of course, yes, this determination must be supported. Let us make this money available, but let us remember that in order for this money to go to our best scientists, we need to systematically finance science, systematically allow people to conduct scientific research. Otherwise, just the best scientists in the country will use this prize to move to other countries where scientists really appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u74	Thank you, Inna Romanovna. Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u76	Please, Pavelka Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u77	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, of course, "European Solidarity" will support this decision. We need to support our scientists, our scientists, our teachers, but we need to support not only the prizes. Because if you believe in today’s speech by Vladimir Zelensky, it turns out that these prizes are, of course, the best, of course, for those who need it. That's all they've been able to do for them. And that's wrong in the root. A colleague here has already spoken about the State Budget, so I would like to remind you that the entire Committee on Education, Science and Innovation proposed that 30 billion dollars be added to the State Budget project next year, and unfortunately there was no support for that in the Committee on Budgets. Let's see what the Minister's Office has prepared for the second reading, but it's absolutely necessary to add this money, because otherwise it turns out that teachers, doctors, scientists and others are the only ones who have this power to deliver promises. Last year, 20,000 dollars were promised to doctors, now renewed, and Ministry of Health coworkers say that this promise can be achieved only by optimizing the number of doctors — that is, reducing the number of doctors — and paying the promised 20,000 dollars to those who will remain. In order not to go out the same way with teachers, with scholars, with teachers, we need to be very responsible for the State Budget project. And tomorrow I urge everyone not to push just thoughtlessly green buttons, but very well to count and listen to "European Solidarity" and other colleagues who will still insist on priorities for the country -- something that we haven't heard today in Greens. So let's correct these mistakes in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, from the motives of Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. And Coltunovich, right? And "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u79	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction welcomes any encouragement that can stimulate our scientists. And the faction will vote in full for this draft decree. But immediately I want to say that our colleagues have heard a number of problems in education, in the wages of our teachers. I also want to touch on questions and capital construction, because fortunately, we have some territorial communities, some areas that have demographic growth, where babies are born. But unfortunately, we also have a situation where these kids go to public education institutions in three changes. And here the authorities need to understand clearly: to build schools, to provide a material and technical base, and to be able to acquire basic education, which will lead to our having scientists. The Fatherland Party and the faction vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u81	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! Of course, everyone today noted that the topic of support for the development of the Ukrainian system of education and science was extremely important in the statement by President Zelensky of Ukraine. And this is important not only from the theoretical point of view, but also from the point of view of it, specific practical tasks have been set: wage increases, support for young scientists, comprehensive development of Ukrainian science. This is a task for all of us. So, of course, the "Trust" MP group now supports this decision. And we require careful review, and attention, and support, both to the National Academy of Sciences and to the Sectoral Academy, their scientific departments, not by mechanical reduction, but optimization is smart, balanced. Attention to Ukrainian science. The Trust Group supports this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. And we'll vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" also supports the draft decree. We see that there are 60 living minimums for working persons on January 1, 67 scientists. Basically, it's a substantial amount that I'm sure will go to support. This time. The other one. A great deal today has been said by previous colleagues that the support of science, in a mild sense, of today’s authority, does not govern with things that, for example, are in the State Budget. Because when we're looking at the draft budget for the 22nd year, which is now on the site, the one we're going to be looking at tomorrow, it's kind of going against those words that came out of the committee today. This time. The other one. I kept paying constant attention to this fact that there is a shameful situation in native science. The first is part-time, unpaid work days, the absence of a payroll fund for basic wage coverage. It shouldn't be if we really want to support science.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u84	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's go to the vote. The committee's conclusion is to accept it as a whole. I therefore put to the vote the adoption of Decree 6346 on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists for 2020. Please put to the vote. [[13:05:28]] For 307 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Let's move on to the next Order - registration number 6254. Draft Decision on the awarding of the annual Supreme Council Award to the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of full secondary education in 2021. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:06:10]] For 245 Decision taken. The committee’s chairman for education, science, and innovation, Sergey Vitaliyovich Babak, four minutes away from the authors and the committee, please, is invited to report to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, good day again. I would like to remind you that in January of this year, you and I have launched a prize for the best graduates of schools who have made the most external independent evaluation. In this way, the Supreme Council has decided to support better participants in external independent evaluation, to encourage children to gain a high level of knowledge in general secondary education institutions, to continue their studies at universities in Ukraine, and to increase the prestige of quality education. This award is now awarded for the first time, and it will be awarded to 30 young people who have graduated from school in the current year, who have the best external independent rating of four subjects, and who have received at least 790 points, including 200 points for at least one of these courses, and who have joined Ukrainian universities. Interestingly, this year there is one person who has picked 200 points out of three items. In 2021, the minimum total score that winners won was 792, which was 798. Each of these 30 young people will receive 100,000 dollars from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think it'll be interesting to know where these talented high school graduates came from and what universities they went to. Thus, young people from virtually all parts of Ukraine came to the list of candidates, but most of them from Lviv – 8 and Kiev – 5. Half of the applicants chose not to stay home but went to the best universities in Ukraine: Taras Shevchenk University, Ukrainian Catholic University, KPI, Mohiljanka, Kharkiv University of Radioelectronics, and others. So it turned out that even gender parity was preserved in the list of the best and talented: 16 girls and 14 boys. I am very happy that talented and promising young people have chosen specialties that provide economic development and stability: computer science, software engineering, applied mathematics, applied physics, and nanomaterials. Dear colleagues, all of this gives us the hope that our country will have a future, and this future will be in good and professional hands. By the time they were 18, these children had already done a great deal and worked hard to be the best. For them, it is a great victory. Let's all go together and support them on this path. The committee unanimously decided to recommend the decision as a basis and as a whole. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u86	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please, Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Julia Grishni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u88	Please, Grishna Julia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, in fact, the head of the committee, Sergey Vitaliyovich, has just said that we are all with you this year, for the first time, to establish the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for children who have made the best of the country's COO and have joined the Ukrainian institutions of higher education. This list, these 30 kids are the best students last school year. And we will continue with you all together to motivate our children to learn at such a high level thanks to the vote that will take place now, which, I'm sure, is supported by representatives of all factions. 30 children who made the best of the COD this year will receive a 100,000 dollar bonus, and that's a pretty decent amount for each of these kids. You know, today the president of Ukraine spoke from this rostrum, and he said that an independent country is a smart country, and we still have a lot to do for education and science. But what's already done is, for the first time, we're introducing awards for our scientists, our kids, our teachers, we're increasing their size, we're increasing their numbers. In addition, we are working to increase wages and scholarships. For the first time in years, scholarships have increased. We have increased the wages of our teachers by 30 percent. By the way, as of today, it's increasing by 8.5 percent. And the following year, as the President of Ukraine said, will happen if the following year becomes a year of doctors, the year after that will be a year of teachers. And for the first time in years and decades in our country, our teachers will receive a decent salary. And we're also building infrastructure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u90	Thank you, Julia Mikolayevna. Please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u91	Sofia Fedini, please pass on the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u92	Please. Who, again? Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u93	The European Solidarity faction will support this draft decision because we absolutely believe that our children's education is the future of our nation. But here, in this context, I would like to highlight a few false moments that are now echoing. When we speak of the dedication of the disciples, we should remember well that each student is behind us as a teacher. And the teacher does not have to be rewarded on a specific date, and the teacher needs to pay a decent wage first. I'm sorry, 8 percent raise. What about two years of non-indexulation of teachers' salaries? This is already a major setback. Same thing we're talking about the size of the teacher's total salary. For 6,000 or 9,000 dollars, I'm sorry, it's hard to survive, and we want the teacher to really make an act of self-sacrifice in order to raise a future for his country. The same applies to teachers whose one article in the scientific publication, a mandatory article, costs far more than three months’ wages without a teacher. But we also have to raise questions about the quality of education as such. And I have a lot of requests for teachers and teachers, but the quality of the graduates they're releasing was the best. Because we have incompetent people who are not what we don't understand in state processes, like those who are now in power, but who think that their nihilism and ignorance are all that matters, and the only thing that is worthy of being in our country. As a result, we have mad problems in all areas that we can touch. So now the responsibility is the same for each of us, fellow teachers and fellow teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u95	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, the third decision in a row that we award the prizes, this time, the best graduates of the school. I am proud that there are people in Ukraine who get good results from external independent evaluation, and they certainly deserve respect, recognition and support. But at the same time, they also deserve to be educated in good universities. And here I have a big question about power: are we doing enough for these kids to get a good education? Will they be able to obtain it in today’s reformed universities? Also another question about how many children can actually realize themselves today in the Ukrainian education system? Yes, we have the best students, we have the best graduates. But the truth is that there is a tremendous increase in inequality in access to quality education. Children from poorer families, children from rural areas, have worse access to education. And this situation has become even scarier, even more difficult now, in COVID times. Now in the time of COVID, children from poor families, children from rural areas generally lose access to education. And unfortunately, the authorities are not doing enough to give them that opportunity. We have heard from the President some fictitious information about 60,000 computers purchased to help children acquire education. First, computers were purchased, not 60,000, but at least, at best, a third of what the President said. But do you know what's most cynical about this phrase from the President? And let's take a look at the budget for the next year that was sent to us today, which will be voted tomorrow. Do you know that the next year’s budget does not have money on computers in principle? Please tell me, what are the priorities of this power right now? Why do we hear some statements, and then we look at the budget -- and we see other numbers there? This isn't about the priorities that we talked about, and not the priorities that the President spoke about in this rostrum. Finally, let us speak honestly and properly, primarily through the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life", Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u98	Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, faction of the opposition platform for life.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u99	Thank you, Mr. Head. As promised, right now I want to figure it out for myself, and maybe with you, in that coup d'etat that, thank God, didn't happen today. First of all, do we have to figure out whether it should be, or is it the result of the President's preemptive strike during a press conference? And there's one question that I have here: What did the President mean? In media space, everyone knows that journalists have often written about the friendly relationship between Dustenk, Ahmetov, and Yatzenuk. What's new? They've been friends for a long time, and that's common knowledge. Journalists began to say that preparations for attention had begun, Maydan. And this was discussed in both the watchrooms and the session hall, and this was talked about by journalists. And here I have a contradiction and a question. Is that what this is, then, a coup d'état? What, then, does the authorities observe? We honor the dead, we all honor the dead, but we celebrate the first Maidan, the second Maidan. So why be surprised? Your successors will mark the third Maidan. And if this is a coup d'état, then let's call things our names: what took place in the 14th year of the coup d'état and we have no right to do it again. In an illegal way, power has been removed, and this has no right to repeat itself. Even Janukovic understood the President's point of view – he filed a motion to reinstate himself as President of Ukraine in connection with the 2014 coup d'état. So maybe now we'll have two presidents. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to be responsible. Before you accuse anyone of anything, realize that you are the hostages of where you came from. If Majdan is Midan, the stadium is the stadium, and the riot is the riot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u100	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Please, for the reasons of the "Fatherland" then, John Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u101	Kirilenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, in his time, the President of the United States said in a very sign language: "We finance science and education not because we are rich, but because we finance education and science." If you look at election races in the United States (or parliamentary or presidential), this is the subject of science and education. It's a sacred cow, there's unlimited funding. Because people care about human capital -- that's what's expensive. Not so much as a dozen leading universities in the world are always six or seven U.S. universities. We have the funding of all universities is the financing of one of the universities of Western Europe. So the refrain here was to increase funding right where it's made up of value -- human capital. Tomorrow's budget, let's see. "Paternality" votes in favour and calls for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, MP group "Trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u103	"Christian education for young people is the greatest good in the world," wrote the Metropolitan of Sheptic. Today, the best Ukrainian colleges, including the Alma mater of the Ukrainian Catholic University, are proud that this year graduates with much higher KNW scores came to see them, as last year. Today, Lvivščina prides herself on the fact that most of the candidates for the Supreme Council Prize -- 100,000 dollars -- are from Lvivščina. This means that you and I are supposed to take care of those who teach them as teachers, and for those places where they study, for schools. So we need to increase funding under the Wealth School program, NUSH, we need to increase funding by using the new formula for calculating money for our teachers. You also need to take care of the inclusion. We support this decision together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u104	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. Let's go to the vote. So I'm voting to accept, in general, Decree No. 6254 on the award of the annual Supreme Council Award to the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of the training obtained on the basis of full general secondary education in 2021. Please vote. [[13:21:49]] For 303 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Let's move on to the next issue of agenda: this is the bill of registration number 4487 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please put it to the vote. [[13:22:33]] For 243 Decision taken. Please refer to the report as the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations, Maksim Mikolayovich Tkachenko. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u105	Yes, thank you. Honourable National Deputies, Bill 4487 aimed at improving the legislative regulation of the implementation of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons in Ukraine, in particular the rights to social protection, housing, education and so on, as well as the establishment at the legislative level of the powers of the central executive body, which ensures the coordination and implementation of national policies on internally displaced persons. The draft law proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons, specifying the notion of "internally displaced persons"; shortens the time limit for the decision to be taken to account for the internally displaced person from 15 to 7 working days; settles the issue of the right of internally displaced persons to live through the implementation of national and local programmes, such as housing for social and temporary purposes, the granting of low-interest loans for the acquisition of housing; cancels the six-month period for which, according to the current legislation, the internally displaced person is provided with housing for temporary residence; defines the mandate of the central authority of the executing authority, which provides for the formation, coordination and implementation of the State policy on matters of internally displaced persons. The committee believes that comments to the bill can be taken into account in its second reading. The Committee concluded that it had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law (4487) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. The committee also proposes to reduce the deadline for the application of rights to 7 days. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u106	Thank you, Maxim Mikolaiovich. Are you from the committee, too? Was that the report? That, Maksim Mikolayovich, you had it from the committee, didn't you? Thank you. Okay. Then we sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u107	Thank you. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u108	Please, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please don't block Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, of course, "European Solidarity" welcomes the fact that in order of the day there are laws on military chaplainship, there are bills on the need to support citizens who are in temporarily occupied territories. And our discussion is now following Zelensky's speech, in which he did not mention in any words, for example, that Putin and the Russian Federation did not carry out any of the summit points in the Normandy format in December 2019. And so far, so widely-proposed and well-proposed are being closed in Donetsk and Lugansk regions. None of them work today through the Russian Federation, and we keep quiet about it. Similarly, the paragraph that Zelenski and Ko spoke so loudly about was the admission of international humanitarian missions, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, to prisons in occupied areas. And at this time, it looks shameful to know that Ukrainian spies, who documented all the crimes of the Gulf regime, were simply canceled by foreign passports, and they became slaves to this new regime today, not being released abroad. And at that time, the separator of the Isolation went to France, and somehow, when our noble soldiers were caught, the dealer of the Isolation, and he was detained, he was released from S.I.S.A., and he's walking around in Europe. So in fact, the key, including for the citizens in the occupied territories waiting there for Ukraine and the Ukrainian army, is the question: who is the mole in the Bank, who's going to play Putin today? Who's going to play with these plans about direct negotiations that are actually going to be one -- the removal of sanctions from the aggressor country, when an old Cadebist and a man at one table is trying to look into Putin's eyes and bring him in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u110	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please, Petovka Vasil Vasilovich, MP. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u111	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I would like to thank the Committee on the Reintegration of Donbas, the survivors of both grief and distress living in a peaceful Ukraine today, and leave their homes in that area. This is Tkachenko Maxim, this is Gorbenko Ruslan, this is Dmitri Lubinets. At last, eight years of war, eight years of war -- hands to temporary displaced persons. Today, people are plagued with homeless people. I went through all of Zaporozhye, Kharkushkin, Lugansk, Donetskin, Poltavščina. The people who lived today and left those territories, 1 million 700,000 people, were left alone. The state accepts refugees from Afghanistan. We have to help, but 1 million 700,000 people with children left alone today alone with trouble, no one could help them. In fact, the situation is complex in the country today, not only on borders, but also within the country where there are collaborators working in Kabmini who do not think about people. Thank you to the committee that passed this bill today. We will support those temporarily displaced today. Although they are Ukrainians, I am also from the city of Stahanova, and I also feel the misery of people who are in need of help today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u112	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u113	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, in fact, according to the Ministry of Social Policy, more than one and a half million Ukrainians have the status of "temporary displaced persons." When it comes to their social protection, this bill deals with many of the issues faced by these individuals who live in various areas of Ukraine. In fact, the law simplifies the system and does not force these people to go to the bureaucrat offices. This law provides that a person receives this help once, and only in six months that he is not present in the territory where he is temporarily registered will this help become invalid. Moreover, they have the right to social protection. If he is a pensioner, they are entitled to a pension at this temporary place of residence. If a person needs other social services, he too has the right to receive. It is vital that this law enters into force, and those who act in positions on behalf of the State take a good look at their duties and remember that they are Ukrainian citizens who have left their homes and their families for many years. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u114	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life", Mother Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u116	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. "The opposition platform for life" will certainly support this bill. We are taking this step to support internally displaced persons. We think it's necessary not only to simplify their registration conditions and so forth, but also to give them the right to vote, for example. And you and I know that our party has already won an appeal against the decision to appoint elections in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk areas under control. That's an important question. And I'm still waiting for the Council to decide to continue to support people who have moved from uncontrollable territories and live in a controlled territory. This time. The other one. I certainly support the President's initiative today to negotiate directly in the context of the settlement of the Donbas conflict. This includes a set of measures for the implementation of the Minsk Accords, once. This implies that we in this Council should vote on the Ukrainian legislative election in general and in controlled and, above all, uncontrollable territories. The second is the lifting of the Donbas economic blockade. It's a very important question. The energy crisis shows, without the mines of Donetsk and Lugansk, the energy market of Ukraine and the sector are in crisis. This means that the lifting of the economic blockade will contribute to the resurgence of energy throughout Ukraine. Next. A special order of local self-government, special status and so on, and so on, and so on, all those measures that are needed. So we are ready to support the initiatives that Donbas will bring to Ukraine and Ukraine to Donbas. That is why we also support the draft law on the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u118	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, with the motives of Taras Petrovich Tarasenko, the MP's faction, the "Slut of the People" party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u119	This is a law for Ukrainian citizens, for one and a half million Ukrainian citizens who have been discriminated against for eight years. We're all equal. And unfortunately, they found themselves in a situation where they were forced to leave their territories. For eight years, they have been unable to find a place. And now this is the first law that will go into the strategy of ensuring that internally displaced persons have equal rights. So I'm asking everyone to back it up and short-circuit it. We must provide them with adequate housing, housing throughout Ukraine, especially in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, as well as education, education and work. I urge everyone to back up this bill and vote it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u120	Thank you, Taras Petrovich. They're all here. Then let's go to the vote. The Committee's conclusion: to accept as a basis. There's a proposal to cut the line. That's the second vote we're going to try. So I'm putting to the vote a bill (register 4487) amending the Ukrainian law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. Request for a vote. [[13:36:19]] For 304 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. There's a proposal to shorten the terms. Therefore, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals, amendments and preparations for the second reading of the bill (registration number 4487) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons. Please vote. [[13:37:01]] For the 250. Decision taken. The factions, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill is registration number 3688. This is a draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Objects on the Transfer of Wholesale Assets to State Fire and Rescue Units (Parts) and Other Property of the Civil Protection Operations Service. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this law? Is there a need to discuss? It is, isn't it? Then let me make an offer to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[13:37:55]] For 228 Decision taken. Drapti Bogdan Evgenovich, deputy minister of the Interior, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u122	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Rights Objects on the Transfer of Wholesale Property Complexes of State Fire and Rescue Units (Parts) and Other Property of the Civil Protection Operations Service (Registration No. 3688) (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). According to articles 62 and 63 of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code, at locations where there are no fire rescue units, local self-government authorities, in agreement with the State Emergency Service, form fire rescue units to provide local and voluntary fire protection. At this time, the State Emergency Service has a fixed and moving individualized property that is not used or planned for use in the civil protection authorities and units for the purpose and can be transferred to the municipal or joint property of the territorial communities to ensure the full operation of the fire-fighting units of the local and voluntary fire-fighting units. In connection with this project, it is proposed that the list of state-owned assets transferred free of charge from the state to municipal property, full-fledged fire - rescue complexes, other immovable and movable property be complemented by legislation. The adoption of the draft law will be a major step towards the creation of security centres in the united territorial communities and will allow fire rescue units of local and voluntary fire protection to be provided with adequate property, in turn contributing to the creation of new local fire teams in the territorial communities. This will increase the rate of timely arrival at the scene of the emergency of the appropriate fire rescue units and will generally increase the effectiveness of voluntary fire-fighting wives. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u123	Thank you, Bogdan Eugeneovich. The co-rapporteur, the Economic Development Committee of Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u124	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Your Honor. And, in short, this law is actually about a simple enough thing. We're talking about transfer from the state to the municipal property of various whole units of state fire and rescue units and parts, other immovable and individually defined movable property. Why is this being done? In order to give the united territorial communities the opportunity to make this property more flexible, let us say, manage, maintain and ensure its proper use. It is worth noting that the NEUJU does not deny the possibility of adopting this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues notes that the bill has no budgetary impact. The Committee on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union concluded that the provisions of this bill are regulated at the level of national legislation of EU member states. And the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee notes that the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Taking these conclusions into account, of course, that the Committee on Economic Development has reached a conclusion on the possibility of supporting and following the outcome of the review to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. But if there is the will and agreement of all the factions of Parliament, we certainly will not deny the acceptance of it as a whole. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u125	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head, I give Mr. Aryan the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u127	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u128	Dear fellow citizens! "European Solidarity" will vote in favour of this bill, and now I'll explain to you why. I went to work at the Supreme Council in the morning, and at the beginning of Bankova, I saw a fire truck, although there was no fire. No, I realize there may have been some kind of burn on the bank, but it's definitely not a fire truck. However, if we see today that because someone is afraid of something, it's just panicking, and they're putting a fire car on the bank, even though it's needed where, God forbid, something's burning, it's using state resources to do the demands of senior officials. And if we hand over fire parts from state property to utility, maybe the measures won't do the demands of those who are afraid of people who may come today, and the lies that we have heard from this rostrum by the President of Ukraine today will not be accepted and criticized. So when we see it, too. By the way, there's a deputy minister here today, maybe he'll explain how DDSN helicopters were used to drive high-ranking government officials instead of the state airline "Ukraine," that's also interesting. And when we get, finally, that the DSNS, their structures, their property will be in utility property, the measures won't go the way the Ministry of Internal Affairs is going to do today. That's why we're behind this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u129	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Litvinov Alexandr Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Silent Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u131	Alexei Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u132	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! A very important bill primarily for our communities is the next step towards effective and real decentralization. The bill is very short, and it tells us that the Act on Transfer of State Property Objects can be passed on, including property that is not used by the DSS for its functions. Instead, local self - government authorities will be able to use it more effectively for community purposes. This will increase the speed of getting fire trucks, firefighters to fire stations, and appropriate localization of such situations. So I ask everyone to support a very important bill, first of all, for local self-government and for our electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u133	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice". Clemensa Julia Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u134	Klimenko. I'd like that. We certainly support this bill, it's the right bill. I want to pay attention to what this property is, this amount of property in government property, and including in the U.S. Reserve Fund, which is located in the O.T.G., in our communities very much. There are whole businesses in the middle of OTG in the middle of cities that can't be done, actually bankruptcys. But neither the land nor the administration nor the use of these lands have a community. One example that I've seen recently is the Strysk Seed Plant, which is 100 hectares in the center of the city, which is completely out of use and with long collapsed buildings. So let's not just talk about fire stations, but about everything else. But I wanted to say something else. I remember the reform of vocational education. We see a reform of institutional care and the transfer of different kinds of sanatoriums to communities. Sometimes they cannot, and often they cannot. So this reform should go not only with the transfer of property and all responsibility to the community, but also with the transfer of financial resources and the provision of, above all, our firefighters, decilosers in form, lifeguards, cars, helicopters and everything else. The crowds will not be able to provide for this. So either let's give them the money, or let's hand over the crew and the firemen who will always be safe. Because people work for money and actually do it, they save our lives. So I'm pointing out that the transfer of these objects to the community should certainly be, but it should also be complemented by budgeted and fully equipped decimaries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u135	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy Skorod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, it would seem a very small question, even in the context of decentralization, would logically transfer everything from the state to municipal property. But there's a question. We're handing over fire and rescue units and other assets to the Civil Protection Operations Service. Tell me, at what cost and at whom expense will they serve? Because we can hand over anything, but communities can't get it out materially. And that's why we have to get them transferred to this and the financial part first, and we have to budget the financing of these parts in the community itself. And, you know, at this point, I can say, as a senior deputy, for example, there's a district hospital in the community. One community pays, serves the hospital, and it is used not by one community, but by several communities. But the issue of funding for other communities is not and is not involved. This is going to be the same situation. So, on the one hand, we have decentralization, and we really have to transfer this property, this land, and that kind of thing, but on the other hand, there's a very bright question about who's going to finance this and what's going to keep these communities going. That's why the "For the Future" MP group will abstain from voting in the first reading. And we think that the first thing to do is to solve the financial component of such transfers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u137	Thank you. National Deputy Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of Fatherland. Then Shahov. And then Shufrich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u138	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, the very philosophy of decentralization in principle foresees the possibility of transferring all that is, in place, to the management of the territorial communities. But this same philosophy also provides for the disposal of the financial resources that can be modernized, the repairs (capital, current) of the same objects that can be passed on to local communities. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction strongly denies voting on this bill as a whole. We're going to be preparing the amendments and we're going to talk about that, along with the transfer of objects that they're not, whether they're fire rescue objects in our parts of the fires or other objects, we're going to need to transfer and finance, financial resources to enable local managers to make a proper update, repair these objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u139	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergei. First Shahov, then Shufrich. All right, Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u140	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I've been working on this issue as a minister for emergencies, and I've dreamed of really providing a network of fire and rescue parts for municipalities and local councils. But we realized that by handing over property without funding, we're risking that this property will then be used in a different direction and will shrink and so little fire and rescue parts. So I ask that this law now be returned, processed, and without funding, without a targeted subsidy, such decisions cannot be made. And the troops need to be increased. And the last. We must now return the stolen property to the MNF system, primarily the Prilutice plant, which was the largest in Europe, and we restored it, and it worked. And then he's, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u141	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u142	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Trust Group will support this bill, but I'd like to make a point. In Donbas, Donetsk, Luhansk region, since 2015, a state of emergency has been declared, and at the present time, there are still no early - warning systems that have burned 16 people alive, 800 homes that have been damaged by 22 billion dollars. None of the governors, the head of the military-civil administration has responded, criminal conduct has been violated. I appeal to the Attorney General to immediately violate criminal conduct and investigate. Because he's spending billions today on buildings that don't exist, 68 million dollars, that's in Rubi district, the Kremin district, at school.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, please take your seats. I'm making an offer. First the proposal, based on the basis, and then we'll talk: if there's a possibility in general, we'll be in general, if not, we'll cut the line. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it? Well, let's see if no one objects. In general, no, they deny it. Then we're going to cut the lines. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Communal Property Rights on the Transfer of Wholesaling Complexes of State Fire and Rescue Units (Parts) and Other Property of the Civil Protection Operations Service (project registration number 3688). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:54:24]] For 267 Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, honourable national deputies put to the vote the proposal to cut back on the proposal and amendments and prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 3688. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:54:56]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Wonderful. Everyone told us how important the bill was for our territorial communities. Okay. Let's move on, dear fellows. We're going into the next question. This is a draft Decision on the Assignment of Elections for the Dobropelian Urban Head of the Donetsk Region (project number 5806). There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll suggest it. [[13:55:40]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may we consider this matter without discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] "European Solidarity" is just asking to speak. Then let's give two minutes, you'll get out. Please, from "European Solidarity" who would like to? Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. Ah, Knyazevich. Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. [[B in m in s a l in]] And one minute you are. Okay. All of it. And then we go to the vote. Thank you. Prince Ruslan Petrovich is 2 minutes and Coltunović is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u144	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u145	Wait a minute! I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u146	It has become clear to all that this practice, which was introduced two years ago, when we have two consecutive elections a year, is wrong and unacceptable to our electorate. People who have been deprived of the possibility of choosing appropriate local self - government for half a year. And so now is the best time to give up this practice and move on to what it used to be, the first chance we get to assigning out-of-elections. What is more, it has become clear from today’s Presidential talk that these elections that we now appoint are the last that will be the real elections in Ukraine. There is still a desire to introduce an electronic vote, which was tested very successfully two months ago during the elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation. I would like to remind you that as a result, no democratic candidate has even acquired the right to be elected to the State Duma in the Majority District. Those hotheads who are preparing a bill right now and who want to bring it to the Supreme Council soon, I want to remind them that the Ukrainians will not be able to take away their voting rights. And those who adopt such a bill and vote for it will be removed not only from power but also from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u147	Please give me 1 minute, National Deputy Koltunovich. And then we go to the vote. Guys, that's the deal. We have another election law. Okay, one minute is Lozinski, another minute is Shahov, and that's it. Please, one minute, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u148	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, we'll support 5806, and 6226 is about the Odessa region. But we have a rational question: why do we support, for example, the elections of the Dobropelian City Head of the Donetsk Region, and we do not support elections to be held in 18 OTG in Donetské region, Lugansk region? We don't have an election to the Donetsk and Lugansk District Councils. It's absurd to vote today 5806 without a decision, which is fundamentally fundamental to these regions. I repeat, our party stood by the Court of Appeal, we won an appeal. And you are obliged to vote on our Election Order in Donetsk and Lugansk regions in controlled areas. So also by supporting these two decrees, we insist that we also consider the Elections Ordinance of 18 OTG for 500,000 voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then Lozinski, one minute. One minute each. And one minute is Alina Zagorujko. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u150	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I fully support Koltunović's statement that today there is a collaboratory game within the country of officials who are completely looting OTG, where they have not held elections in the Donetsk, Lugansk region, stealing millions of votes from voters and violating human constitutional rights in our country, covering the shield of war. Because of this shield of war, there is total smuggling, looting, and covering for billions of dollars. Unfortunately, no criminal conduct has been violated against these villains who are robbing Ukraine today, every Ukrainian who pays taxes. While all pensioners are starving, passing through all of Donbas, people are greeting both the parliament and the Cabinet and the Office about what they are saying today for 6,000 pennies of pension when people are in need, 754, and they can't afford their constitutional right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u151	Please, Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich. After that, Zagorieko Alina Leonidivna. And let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u152	Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. In Parliament a member of each faction, the groups have equal rights to speak and to present their position. Let's not suggest such a disgraceful practice that someone cried out -- and got 2 minutes, someone shouted out more quietly -- and got 1 minute, and someone didn't scream -- and they don't speak. Or we have a consensus and a noble intention to move in the order of the day, we welcome him, we don't insist on performances, but if you're giving an address to one faction, then you have to start an absolutely regular procedure. For short, for short, for full, for full. But one faction can't speak for two minutes, one faction for one minute, and the other faction for one minute. Either there's a discussion, or there's a consensus to move in the daytime. And with regard to this consideration, we absolutely support it, so we're moving in a day-to-day way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u153	Please, Zagora Alina Leonidivna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u154	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You can see now that we're talking about how topical we're dealing with today. I'm wearing materials that deal with this issue, and I've already lost the folder, and it's already broken up, because we don't come to the election session, and that's the question of providing local self-government in places. Colleagues, therefore, the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization adopted a decision at its meeting on 14 July – the question of the appointment of the next election of the Dobropelian City Head of the Donetsk Region. The city’s head is on his own request on the basis of a personal application for headship. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the Committee concluded: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one, article 5, part three, article 194, part one, article 195 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code to appoint the successive elections of Dobropolski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Alina. Thank you, Alina Leonidova. Thank you. Dear colleagues, request to prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to accept, in general, the committee's proposals, the draft Decision on the Assignment of Elections of the Dobropelian City Head of the Donetsk Region (project No. 5806). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:03:00]] For 296 Decision taken. I went on for 15 minutes, so let's get to the next question. Project registration number 6226: draft Order on the appointment of the next election of the Spenov village head of Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:03:31]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, look, they're going to blame me again. We voted for a reduced procedure, so please write down: two in favour, two in favour. Anyone who doesn't want to do it won't do it. But I very much ask that we bet and vote until 14:15. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the floor to National Deputy Vátarovic Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u156	Please pass Alexia to the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u157	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u158	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, we support the right of people to choose their own head. It's an important question, and we all have to vote now. And I want to remind our authorities and the majority that elections are the cornerstone of democracy and democracy in general. And so I ask you to remove these outrageous hands from questions about the transfer of election terms to the Supreme Council. We're already hearing on the press tape, after which we're going to have a class of bracelets, we're going to have Ukrainian securities falling, which is what we want to do, so we're going to move to the 24th year of Parliament's elections, which some people are already doing very well in these places, and we need to do it further away. You don't have to, my friends. We have to go to the election is the first. Second thing I want to say to you. We hear statements about what we're going to do by electronic voting. I just want to remind all of us that electronic voting is in one country, Estonia. And there's another country in the local elections that's catalysing this scheme, this country is called the Russian Federation. And we all saw what they were doing there and how they were doing. And for them, electronic choices have become the main source of counterfeiting. Hence, it is not necessary to take advantage of bad experiences or to try to use them. Because we understand that you're going through a lot of trouble seeing the latest ratings, seeing that the authorities aren't even in the first place, that the opposition is in the first place in the state. And you think about how to draw the election, how to fake it, and how to do something else. Don't even think about it. The people of Ukraine determine Ukrainian authority. It was, it is, and it will be. And we are able to defend the right of the people to choose both the Parliament and the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u159	The word is given to the national deputy of Ustinov, Alexander Yuriovna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I'm ashamed to see how instead of discussing the issues on which you're writing down, you're using it for politics right now in the Supreme Council. We could vote on a few more decrees and vote on important laws, and now we're doing what we're doing is just signing up to do the self-piaract work and the barking. We'll vote yes. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u161	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Buzanski Maksim Arkadyovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Alina Zagorujko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u163	Alina Zagorujko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not take up much of your precious time. Like the first question, and this question, it's a question that's come to us for what you're saying, for what you want. In the case that all documents meet the requirements of the law, the committee's conclusion may be one - to appoint an election. In both cases, the committee recommended that the elections be scheduled for March 27, 2022, by adopting the relevant decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u165	Thank you, Alina Leonidina. Schufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, in the previous speech. We haven't had a village head in a long time, we've already got an OTG head, yes. Besides, I want to remind you, we've had old age, old age has already been. Now, colleagues, please support this bill and as soon as possible go to work on the committees, there are already invited. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u167	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the word is also given to Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich, and then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u168	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, please tell me, what is democracy? Democracy is when a person is constitutionally able to vote for someone he wants to see in a position of head, a national MP. And we were chosen democratically. And we've been chosen to say what people want to see and feel today -- even a little bit of heat. When we sit in this room warm, people starve. By November 15, children did not go to school and kindergartens because they could not sign with Naftogaz for gas. Is it impossible for Shahov to say that? You might say. The fact that people today, 2 million people on the brink of poverty, according to UN statistics, are starving in Ukraine, in the richest country in the world, because 10 million people are thrown away free and today do not even get a proper salary to buy themselves bread or pills. So let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, everyone has said, everyone is pleased. So, with your permission, I'm proposing to the committee to adopt the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Non-Species Elections of the Spernian Agricultural Head of the Bilgorod-Dnistrov Region of Odessa (project number 6226) Ready to vote? Please vote. [[2:10:02]] For 280
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-01-m0.u170	Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
