ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. I remind you, as always, that registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:02:38]] There are 130 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Who's speaking? Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! We're going to have an hour of questions to the government right now. We're invited to discuss a visit by President Greensky to the United States that actually took place two weeks ago. And this is while Ukraine is at the threshold of a very difficult autumn. We know we have a third wave of the epidemic ahead of us. We also know that the government did not spend a penny to install oxygen stations in Ukrainian hospitals. We also know that Russia and Belarus are continuing the process of integration. And our thousand kilometers of border between Russia and Belarus remain completely unprotected. And we also know that once again, unexpected for the whole country, and especially for the government, we have a heated season that we are not ready for again. We're panicking again, living among the population, and no one understands what the tariffs are going to be, and how the government plans to solve the problems that the Ukrainians are now facing on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the visit to this power is a lie. They also prefer to overlook problems and engage in pianist activities, and to pretend that nothing is happening to the Ukrainians and to our society. As tariffs go up, prices go up, and subsidies go down -- it's not about caring for people, it's about poverty. That's why today the entire opposition is democratic here in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u4	I would like to remind you that at the Conciliation Council, all opposition factions, without exception, demanded an immediate report from the Prime Minister, together with the government, on the total incompetence of the heating season, the unjustified rise in heat tariffs, hot water and absolute inefficiencies of subsidies to protect people at this difficult time. But in one voice, only the head of the "Serial of the People" faction has somehow determined that the most relevant thing right now is to listen to the foreign minister about how the visit took place, not about people being unable to pay for heat, hot water, electricity, and subsidies. And that's why all the opposition factions now demand that the concept be completely changed now to cooperate with the government in this room and to hear about the heating period, about what tariffs, subsidies will look like, and all the other questions put aside. We are convinced that the Prime Minister is now obliged to tell the country and the entire Parliament how people will pay higher tariffs and what the authorities are doing. We hope that the agenda will now be changed and we will listen to the Prime Minister, and we will be able to ask questions. And the country will hear how it prepares for the winter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u5	There's been an announcement for a break. Please, the heads of the MP factions and groups, the leadership of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, Denis Anatoliyevich, if possible, to me too. There's a break for 30 minutes. But please don't split up, maybe we'll be able to do this sooner.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u6	Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, first, during the meeting that had just taken place, agreed on the following format of "hours of questions to the government." This was agreed with both the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In 10 minutes, the Foreign Minister's speech. Next, 21 minutes, i.e. each faction asks a question to the Prime Minister -- he gets the answer. Next, half an hour is a question to the government from the Ukrainian National Deputies. This is consistent with all factions. Since there was such an arrangement, I don't think voting in the room makes any sense. Secondly, yesterday, a consensus was reached between all the MPs and groups on the next schedule of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. We work all the time until 12:30. Since 12:30, we'll have 30 minutes to read the questions, and then we'll close the plenary session. We'll close the plenary session at 1:00. Another statement was made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, at the request of the opposition factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without excluding everyone, the order of information that will now be given to us by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been changed. So once again, the issue of the willingness of the government to ensure our citizens' ability to pay tariffs during this winter, during the heating season, will be discussed. Of course, the question that the majority wanted to impose would be needed as another pyar. But right now we don't need to be pianist here, we really need to hear how our citizens are going to be able to pay the tariffs as soon as possible. And there is at least a position of two factions of opposition that insist that the issue be addressed immediately and that the practice and principle of the distribution of national resources in the form of natural gas produced by state companies, and that this gas be given to the population of Ukraine at an understandable price that ensures its production and further development of the sector, as stated by NAC Naftogazu, 2 000 400 dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but say that during a meeting of faction leaders with the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the presence of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the issue of the ethics of presence today was raised at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Foreign Ministers of Mr. Kuleba for the following reasons. Yesterday, during a live broadcast on the program of the distinguished leading journalist of Ukraine, Mrs. Natalia Mosiyczuk left a microphone on the program "Right to Power" by the minister of foreign affairs. And the argument was that he had a fever and he was sick, and he had to leave the air prematurely. In the morning he felt good, came with a report, with the intention of speaking for up to 20 minutes at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And by the way, at least, Mr. Kuleba, I'm sorry, I can't see you. Mr. Kuleb, I'm getting a signal that you're not wearing a mask. Mr. Kuleb, please use the mask. Therefore, honourable colleagues, demonstrating the requirements of quarantine and mascara throughout the country, we have a sick foreign minister speaking from the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, let's move on. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday, we spend an hour of questions to the Government. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine will answer questions about the Crimea Platform and its significance for the consolidation of international efforts in the process of the depopulation of Crimea and the visit of the President of Ukraine to the United States of America and its significance for Ukraine. Please, Dmitry Ivanovich Kuleb, invite you to the rostrum, 10 minutes' notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! President Vladimir Zelensky has a bold foreign policy. Ukraine is an active player in the world arena who is pragmatically promoting its interests and remains committed to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. The Crimea platform and a visit by the head of the Ukrainian State to the United States are two signals to the world that Ukraine is back in play. We are not beggars, we are not victims, we are not poor relatives, Ukraine is not a victim, Ukraine is a savior. Our nation creates new alliances and actively forms a new architecture of global and regional security. The Crimea Platform, the Ljubljana Triangle with Poland and Lithuania, the associated trio with Georgia and Moldova, the Quadrigue with Turkey are completely new tools that enable Ukraine to emphasize its leadership role and enhance its authority in the world arena. For the first time in 30 years since the restoration of independence, our nation has received a system document -- an external policy strategy. To be honest, in the last 30 years, Ukraine was governed by political conditions. Thanks to the position of the President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the best experts, scientists and think-tanks, Ukraine now has a constitution of foreign policy, which will help the state move forward much more effectively and achieve its objectives. I would like to point out that the foreign policy strategy is virtually zeroing the risk of changing the state’s course due to changes in political elites or political turbulence. On the initiative of the President of Ukraine, our nation has historically implemented an external political initiative, the Crimean Platform. For the first time in many years the question of Crimea has been raised to the highest international level. For the first time, we have a real mechanism that leads to the depopulation of the peninsula. Participants of the platform endorsed a declaration that stated not only a firm position on non-recognition of Crimea’s attempted annexation but also a willingness with Ukraine to engage in its occupation, including by increasing sanctions pressure on Russia. The Crimean Platform Declaration remains open for accession. The Crimean platform has already begun to work on three levels: government, parliamentary and expert. And I want to thank the people's deputies who have actively joined our efforts for your direct involvement with other parliaments already established to interact within the framework of the Crimea Platform. The Crimean platform will be the driver of many important national decisions in Ukraine and abroad that will bring the depopulation of the peninsula closer. I want to make it very clear that fighting for Crimea is a battle for Ukraine. No matter how ironic the mockery of the skeptics may be, but if we give up the active occupation of Crimea, the sovereign Ukraine will not be, we will not pass a historic exam on maturity, on the ability to effectively and unconditionally defend national interests. That's why the depopulation of the peninsula will be a priority of the international activity of Ukraine, my work and the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until we return Crimea. Crime is a test that defines the rules of play and the future of world order in the twenty-first century. But the answer to the question "what will decide the fate of countries and millions of people -- the brutal military force or global cooperation" is to be given not only in Kiev but also in other capitals of the world. And we can get that answer along with you, with the people's chosen. Today, Russia is systematically violating human rights in Crimea. Russian penal authorities carry out illegal searches, imprisonment of members of the Crimean Tatar community, and activists. Moscow’s reaction indicates that the Crimean Platform poses a real threat to Russia’s intentions of continuing occupation. The Kremlin resorted to direct vengeance and intimidation. Russia’s emotional actions confirm Moscow’s moral defeat, and the number of participants in the Crimea Platform to defeat its diplomacy. Since the arrest of Nariman Jellalov and other representatives of the Crimean Tatar people, we have been actively working on the immediate release of the hostages and all the supporters of the Kremlin. The pain and suffering of our fellow countrymen, their families, is very difficult, but Russia will not be able to intimidate or stop us. Ladies and gentlemen, the Crimea Platform is Ukraine's undeniable victory. As for the President's visit to the United States. For the first time, a visit by the President of Ukraine to the United States was so complex and effective. It wasn't a courtesy visit, it was a direct implementation of our external political strategy. At the highest level, the United States has made it clear that it will not leave Ukraine alone with Russian aggression, in practice means that Washington is more actively involved in the process of peaceful settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict and strengthening the security of our state. The United States also fully supports the creation of the Crimea Platform. There will soon be a meeting of the updated and strengthened Strategic Partnership Commission between our countries, which has not met for three years, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Secretary of State of the United States. This is a specific tool to support the United States in the areas of security, defence and investment to Ukraine. Summarizing the relationship between Ukraine and the United States after the visit of President Zelenski, they are at the highest point in years. But this is not the end of work, but just the beginning of a qualitatively new stage. We are already actively working on the embodiment of dozens of ambitious agreements reached in Washington. Diplomats hope for constructive cooperation with parliament. The entire foreign policy strategy of Ukraine and the new tasks of the Ukrainian-American partnership will only be implemented under the coordinated work of all branches of government. All that's going on in our foreign policy right now is not a separate stock, it's a system-wide plan. Ukraine forms a belt of freedom, prosperity, and security around its borders. We act boldly and proactively because no one will defend Ukraine better than we do ourselves. Diplomacy, the army, the people are the formula for Ukraine's stability in the world. Now we're doing a lot of things for the first time, and I'm going to be honest, it's a special drive, but it's very difficult. The real subjectivity is not only about our country’s positions being heard in the international arena, but the real subjectivity is that foreign policy creates new opportunities for Ukraine, opportunities for politicians not — opportunities for Ukrainians, opportunities for security, pride in their country, business development, economic and cultural potential. And finally. Ukraine’s foreign policy strategy envisions strengthening its institutional capacity for diplomatic service. We've proven that we have important results, so I ask you to support the MCS during the budget review for 2022. I'm not asking you to just give us money, I'm asking you to make a convenient investment in protecting Ukrainian interests in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, in international relations, we do not all depend on domestic political preferences to always take a state position. Ukraine is the only one to speak to the world with a single voice. I am grateful to those of you who share this approach and do not use international relations for speculation. Together, diplomats and parliamentarians can do more than separately. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is always at your service when it comes to protecting national interests, the interests of Ukrainian business and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Dear colleagues, now, as we agreed, I ask you to register the factions on the issues that will be addressed to the Prime Minister and the government. One question from the faction. Please. The word is given for question to the Ukrainian national deputy, Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u11	Please give Sofia to Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u12	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u13	First of all, let us speak the truth. For over a week now, there's no claim from Crimea Platform for the theft of Nariman Jellalov, and the statements of individual countries are the work of Majlis, so it's a complete failure. Now the question to the Prime Minister. You've used 90 percent of the subsidies in the summer, that's Minfin's data. The E.E. was already offered in January to anticipate additional funds -- it was a total ignore. What are you doing now to help people, and is there going to be an increase in subsidies? And the second question. The Minister of Finance recently said that 40-year-olds should no longer be expected to retire. And against the backdrop of sharp price increases, and against the backdrop of not doing the indexation on time, what are you doing to prevent a pension catastrophe? Because at the moment we're only seeing a total increase in taxes, and the pensioners have added 5 or 8 bracelets, which is more like total abuse of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon! As far as the first part of the question is concerned, subsidies. In fact, early in the year, we had a discussion about the amount of subsidies needed. There were 36 billion dollars planned in the budget. Today's over. 35.2, to be exact. Today, more than 33 billion dollars have been used to pay subsidies. By the end of the year, according to the Ministry of Social Policy, about 12 billion dollars will be needed. Of course, we will address, as we agreed, the people’s deputies and ask for support for changes to the budget. Such changes will be submitted next week by Thursday to the appropriate committee to allow changes to be made here, add 12 billion in the area, the Ministry will now complete the exact accounts and we will ask for support to be paid to all people by the end of the year. Today, the amount of subsidies is sufficient to pay before the heating season begins. So we have time, we fulfill our obligations as a state, we have no debts. And as we agreed, once again, we will ask the people's deputies to support this change. The possibility is, the source of the Ministry of Finance is defined and we will work on it accordingly. As far as retirement is concerned. Today, Ukraine has a solidarity system. We've met and been working together with the Parliament's profile committee on a number of occasions today, a government to implement and launch a second-level pension accumulation system in Ukraine that will enable pensions to be increased almost twice when the system is working properly. That is why it is also a joint work of the government and parliament to adopt appropriate legislation in Ukraine and to start this work so that the 40-year-olds and those younger have a decent European pension in Ukraine. As far as existing pensions are concerned, the government is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u15	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenka, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u16	May I present the word to the leader of the Fatherland faction of Yulia Timoshenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u17	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u18	Mr. Prime Minister, I think the people of Ukraine from the "ministers of the people" deserve simply the right to know the truth. Please tell me the first question and ask me all the questions that will be asked. Is it true that during this heating period, the heat gas from the 5 bracelets that was in the last heating period will increase to nearly 8 ounces of 42 copies, that is, almost once and for all, the cost of heat for people during this heating period will almost increase. The other one. In the past, 7 million families received subsidies to compensate for excessive tariffs. Now you have over 2 million families left. Are you going to increase the number of families receiving subsidies? This is very important. And the third. Will there be abuse of the measures that are now being forced to save old tariffs at new gas prices based on subsidies from their own budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u19	First. We do not plan that the heat and hot water tariffs for this heating season will change in relation to the last heating season. So we don't plan to raise tariffs. The heat gas you're talking about. If you take a VAT-free price, 7.42 is a tax-added price. That price, which today is fixed in the heat utility tariffs, is actually fluctuating from 5 to 6.5 bracelets. 7.42 without VAT is the 6th anniversary of 18 copies. So in some heat utility there's going to be a difference of 50 copies less, in some there's going to be a difference -- even a better price than the one on the tariff. So the situation is different in different heat lines. Today, we are actively working with the mayors of cities, where local self - government is now held accountable for the formation of tariffs on hot and hot water. The government is fully prepared to plant its shoulders to make it easier for local authorities to go through this heating season in the area of unpunishment of unnecessary burdens on people’s shoulders. So once again, we are working to ensure that there is no increase in tariffs for the heat and hot water of the local self-government that is responsible today. Subsidies are very important. Today, there has been a change in approaches to the formation of subsidies. In fact, almost 3 million households have undergone verification and will receive subsidies in much shorter terms — not in 30 days, but in 10 days, as before. So some changes have been made. There has been some relief in the form of subsidies when it comes to real estate or other large purchases or incomes from deposits. So those pensioners, for example, who have deposits, will receive subsidies. These rules have been changed in terms of improvement for people. End of the month. All the people who will need subsidies will receive them this hot season.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u20	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Ivanovich Kulinić, a group of deputies of "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u21	Good afternoon, fellow Prime Minister! The next question. Today, perhaps the most people and society are concerned about the issues related to the heating season: the price of gas, the price of electricity, subsidies. Well, it's all about the heating season. During the Conciliation Council, I am from the Trust MP group, and during Tuesday's appearances from the rostrum, I have addressed you personally, to the Cabinet of Ministers, requiring that in the shortest time a separate government meeting be held, which will be devoted only to the heating season. To whom the mayors of cities are invited, local self - government. Because so many of us are now being approached by local authorities. We have no answer to these questions. So is such a meeting planned, in what format, soon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u22	Thank you. So, with regard to preparation for the heating season. I'm starting every government right now with a hot season of brass. To date, 83 percent of the time is spent preparing for the heating season in terms of fencing, TEC, TES, gas injections into gas shelters. Today, 18 billion cubes, much higher than the average in the last 10 years. By the start of the heating season, it is planned to attach accordingly, or during the already hot season, more than 19 billion cubes will be attached, which is in principle higher than the average and what is enough to last the heating season. Regarding tariffs. By electricity, the tariff is fixed. As we said, it hasn't changed over the past year. It did not change, and for this heating season, even for consumers who consume less than 250 kilowatts a month, the tariff fell to electricity. Regarding gas tariffs, gas prices are more reliable. We've moved to the gas market. And today the price is shaped in a market way. Naftogaz, as a state company, offered consumers an annual product by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which today amounts to $7 million, which is less than $8. In most of the related gas companies, the tariff is less than 8 dollars. If we compare today to the price of European Haba, which is above 20 bracelets, we understand that we have protected the population of Ukraine from fluctuations and rising prices for gas, especially in the context of the hybrid war of Russia, which, in particular, uses gas as geopolitical weapons. The price for gas is fixed and will not exceed 8 dollars. Regarding the price of heating and hot water. I told you before, we don't see any reason for local self-government to raise the tariffs. The government is ready to lay its shoulders. We have such a close negotiation with all the city heads where they are suitable.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u23	The word is given to National Deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u24	Dear Chairman, please pass on the word to Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u25	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, I have another question for you. According to information published by Naftogaz Ukraine's NAC leader, Mr. Vitrenk, state-owned enterprises received 14.3 billion cubic metres of gas last year. The needs of the population and the businesses that provide heat today are 14 billion and two tenths. Ukraine is one of four countries in Europe that can provide its population with its own gas, namely Russia, Norway, Romania and Ukraine. In each country, there is a special program for the gas supply of its own citizens. Why is today the price of gas for our citizens 4 times higher than the 2,400 bracelets that NAC Naftogazu is talking about? Why are our citizens squeezing gas for industry today? The gas belongs to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u27	Dear national deputies, as I said today from this rostrum, the price of gas in the world and in Europe has risen to 20,000 dollars per metre per cubic metre. NAC Naftogaz, as a socially responsible company, offered the government a government-designated annual product for citizens, which is set at the level of 96 million dollars, which adequately protects Ukrainian consumers from price fluctuations on European markets, European habakhs. Appropriately, the price of gas for heatcommuneration offered for the needs of the population is 7g 42pcs. So also this heated season, this is the price of VAT, and I've already stressed it, it's actually not going to raise the tariffs on heat and hot water to local self-government. I would also like to say accordingly, and thank you for the adoption of Law 1639, which in fact makes it possible to fulfil the terms of the memorandum signed with the Ukrainian Association of Cities between the Government, between the NAC "Naftogaz" and the 2020/21 heating season and, in fact, with the transition to the 2021/22 heating season, which, I repeat, allows us to talk about the organization of the work of heatcommuneers, the removal of them from the debt and damage zone, and the stable, reliable water and heat supply for the inhabitants of cities, for consumers of such services at stable prices, which will be equal to those of the previous heating season. That is, growth is not anticipated, and we are actively working with local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u28	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Maxim Arkadyovich Bujanski, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, it has become known that the government has invited several thousand, 5,000 Afghan refugees to our country. Suddenly we learned from the media that half a billion dollars are needed to keep them. I have a question for you. Please tell me if your program, which we didn't even approve, was that we were going to spend half a billion dollars on keeping Afghan refugees. Or did we put this money into the 21st year budget? Or have we already helped all the refugees from Donbas and Crimea? Can we have enough money for everything? Who gave you the right to decide the fate of this budget money in this way? And how much gas is in Naftogazu's vaults now? I want to know if you have any extra money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u30	Regarding the situation with Afghanistan, Afghan refugees. Ukraine has indeed taken the lead in helping and evacuating citizens of Ukraine, as well as citizens of other partner countries from Afghanistan when the crisis began. Everyone knows that, I'm not going to repeat these moments because, in fact, Ukrainians and Ukrainians and Ukrainian pilots have done, you can say with exaggeration, heroic actions for the evacuation of Ukrainians and other citizens of civilized countries from Afghanistan during the crisis and during the actual capture and uncontrolledness at the airport. Regarding the number of Afghan refugees. Today, of course, there are no 5,000 in Ukraine. Of course, if there's a proper request for maintenance or assistance, it's being made by the budget committee, and the decision on the budget is being made by Parliament, and I want to remind it, not by the government. Therefore, the right to make changes to the budget and to make final decisions on whether or not to allocate those or other funds to social projects, humanitarian projects, international projects belong to Parliament, and this right has not been changed in Ukraine. So thank you for asking. And once again, the Afghan case all over the world has shown the country's responsibility to crises, and Ukraine has absolutely looked worthy of the world community in this case. Today, gas in shelters is 18 billion, which is more than the average of the last 10 months.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u31	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Olga Anatoliyovny Stefanishini, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u33	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u34	Thank you. Samantha Bobrowski. Mr. Prime Minister. Excuse me, you can step out from the front, colleagues. Mr. Prime Minister, please tell me the next question, I don't know if you know, but in July of the end of the D.B., the D.D.A. conducted mass searches at the Ministry of Defense regarding the schemes that were primarily related to monopolies of food and food for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In particular, the figure of the case is Mr. Igor Halimon, who was relieved of his position as deputy, but was appointed counsellor on the principles of the Defence Minister two days later. Please tell me, how long will this continue, and do you plan to give a political assessment so that the hall will finally see that the minister is handling his duties? And the second question is, when will the Ukrainian Armed Forces receive a recovery payment, which has actually been procrastinated and up to about a billion and a half dollars in debt for the past six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. It is, of course, in the area of answers to be given by law enforcement authorities and the judicial system, and the political assessment, it is done entirely on different criteria. It's about the Secretary of Defense. He is, of course, an entirely professional man, a professional military man who uses the respect of the army and has followed the right path to this position. With regard to nutrition. We've also spoken to you on more than one occasion, if you ask, we'll give you detailed answers. Regarding military debt. We have a budget planned to maintain the Ukrainian Armed Forces for this year. We have no debts for today after compulsory payments to the military and cannot. Of course, with the necessary budget changes, if they are necessary if the situation changes, it can change because it is life. Relevant changes will be submitted to the committees of profile and to Parliament’s consideration. Regarding the assessment of the actions of those or other officials, the more released, I repeat, it is the prerogative of the law enforcement authorities and the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u36	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy Krachod Annie Constantinenni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u37	Anna Krakhod, MP for the Future. Please pass the word to Light Julia Alexandrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u38	Julia Alexandrovna Lightman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for your reaction to the past appeal, and you and I have been able to provide the child with a TB vaccine. It's good when the mechanism of interaction between the national deputy and the government works, but it's very bad when regional authorities themselves can't perform their functions. So again, I ask you to intervene in the situation in the Kharkiv region. It is in Kharkushka that the growth rate of COVID is one of the highest in the state. And the reaction from the district administration to these processes is very flimsy. For example, two thirds of the beds are now occupied in a district hospital. And if time is wasted, this situation will be extremely difficult. The second question is preparation for the heating season. Crowds are almost abandoned. On the part of the district administration, no attention and support, there are meetings, there are statements, there are slogans, but there are no concrete actions. So I ask the government to intervene in this situation, which is in the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Regarding topics COVID. Indeed, objective reality and figures show a significant increase, an actual doubling today, yesterday’s number of incidents from last week, and this is an extremely serious signal. The whole world is facing a fourth wave today. The only way to fight the pandemic, it's known to everyone, is through social distance, masks, vaccination. These are the elements that are all available in Ukraine today, we have 10 million doses of vaccines left today. Over 10 million have already been administered by the medical system, more than 5.6 million people have been vaccinated, of which 4.6 are two doses. So we need to get active, and all we can do here is call people to active vaccination, which is the only way to prevent enlargement and the fourth wave from expanding COVID. As far as the situation in Kharkish is concerned. The Minister of Health now hears us, I think he will now conduct a proper analysis of the number of beds. Today we have gone through the third moment, we have a completely sufficient number of beds provided with oxygen, emphasis, in every area, on the timely introduction of beds into the anchor fund, and in fact the Ministry of Health today is extremely effective in coordinating this activity with district government administrations. But since there's a signal from you, let's focus on that. As far as the community is concerned. Virtually every day, the Ministry of Community and Territorial Development has a dialogue with the community, with the government fully coordinating the preparations for the heating season. Today, there is still a question of discussion with the local communities, with the leaders of local communities individually, the stabilization of tariffs, perhaps a reduction, perhaps leaving them at the same level as they were, so as not to burden these changes with gas on people. That's why this job is happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u41	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please take your place. And then, as we agreed, colleagues, we're 20 minutes, plus 10 minutes saved by the foreign minister -- 30 minutes of questions from the national MPs to the entire government. Dear colleagues, please register with the government for a question from the National MPs. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Yatzik Yulia Grigorovni, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Zarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u43	The word is passed on to the people’s representative of Zariah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u44	Good afternoon! I have a question and an offer to the Minister of Energy as well as to the Prime Minister. We've been discussing for a very long time the restoration of the Jurassic Bannell gas pipeline in the Visniki district of Chernobyl. I thank you for finally setting up a working group that at some point wasn't involved with me, but the situation was rectified. On Monday there will be a meeting of the working group, and I ask the Prime Minister to join it so that we can deal with these issues clearly because there are working nuances. People have to get gas and finally be provided with heat and gas. Therefore, the proposal that you also take part on Monday at our working council, which will be chaired by the Deputy Minister of Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u45	May I have the floor to the Minister of Energy?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u46	Please pass the word to the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, we are really planning on having this meeting with you on Monday. You know, there's already part of the issue of allocating money, and we'll solve it on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u48	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ustenek Alexi Olegovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u49	Good afternoon! I have a question, first of all, with the Minister of Ecology. Two questions: To the Minister of Ecology, second to the Prime Minister. Please tell me, this year we've seen the color of Dniper that has never been before, and the actual pollution of rivers and rivers in my native Chernigiv region, it's very large. Please tell us what measures and what does the Ministry of Ecology do to enable people to get quality water and so that people can have normal rivers? And the second is the state budget. A real state budget is planned, it is planned to be introduced to Parliament. Please tell me, what will be the cost of building roads there, and will this cost be sufficient to build and make our structure even better? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u50	Good afternoon! On the first question, I want to answer and say that really the flowering process is happening, and we're seeing it year after year. This year it started much later than last year. This has to do with weather conditions. But it's worth saying that, for example, the Dnipro River, it's only a conditional river, because it's long gone into a system of lakes, reservoirs, and it's shrinking, it's shrinking. The work changes and hydroaggregates. In fact, there are so many related conditions that lead to what is happening. Last year there was blue and green algae, this year green algae. We're studying this question, but actually take it and fix it there at the same time, well, it's impossible, but it's working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u51	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Black Dmitri Sergiyovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Kisilev Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u53	Dmitry Davidovich Kisilevski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u54	Dear Denise Anatoliyovich, who has just spoken and said two things: first, we create a zone of prosperity around Ukraine and second, we ask for funds to invest in relations with other countries. Perhaps the minister meant something good, but the realities of the work show open cynicism and contempt for Ukrainian citizens and the Ukrainian industry. You consistently kill Ukrainian citizens' jobs to buy friendships with other countries. Alstom locomotives, you promised a 35 percent location. In reality, the French are holding you and all of you Ukrainian citizens as idiots, saying you can't do that. You promised to accept the government's protocol commission to ensure that this location was implemented. Nothing done. Stadler train, built in Belarus. Is it some great foreign policy initiative to support Belarusian citizens at the expense of Ukrainian citizens? I'm asking you to answer, will the location of the French locomotives be ensured? And why are we buying ready trains in Belarus if we can produce them or localize them in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. Regarding what you've heard, I'm going to ask and then I'm going to give the word to the foreign minister later to make it clear what was meant in the part you're talking about. Regarding the development of production in Ukraine. We absolutely support, you know, all the government programs adopted by Parliament laws that allow the local industry today to create new jobs and develop appropriate production, starting with Antonov's company, which for the first time in 20 years has been ordering airplanes from the Ministry of Defense, and ending up meeting, on a number of occasions, with the manufacturers of wagons and the corresponding railway technology with Krukowski. was at the Krukow Wagon Repair Plant, and we're also negotiating with them so that our manufacturers can produce all the locomotives, trains, cars in Ukraine on our productions. What's more, we're not just negotiating, we're ordering this technique. The Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Economics, is doing the job; the funds are allocated. And this direction is going to develop. As to Alstom. The agreement is signed only on a framework basis, without complying with the agreements that were made by localization. Of course, no commercial contracts under other conditions are signed by the minister and there will be no Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I will also ask now to allow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u57	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is systematically working to help Ukrainian exporters enter new markets (we have many concrete results in this area) and to involve funding and investors in the Ukrainian economy. The last example is a visit by the President of Ukraine to the United States. The U.S. Export Bank opened a $3 billion line to finance a project in Ukraine. This is specific money that will come here to develop the Ukrainian economy. All discussions of joint projects in the United States provided for the localization of a part of production in Ukraine. So we're talking about localization with our partners all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u58	The system, please, is two minutes. Turn it off. Thank you, Dmitri Ivanovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u60	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u61	To the Prime Minister. Retirement. Well, I understand that you don't live on $1,800 with a penny a month, and you don't understand the extent to which people survive today. That's why we demand that some of the funds received from the IMF be presented as a 13-pension pension for the most unsecured population. The other one. Mr. Prime Minister, I understand that you have no idea at all, and this question to the Secretary of Defense means why you don't know. Because military debt amounts to 1.5 billion dollars and, in particular, the payment of war payments is delayed. In terms of war, it's not conceivable, and I'm asking you very much to deal with it. And the third question. We all realize that you did a very beautiful trick when you put tariffs on local communities, and local communities don't have the funds to make a difference between the tariffs on which you're going to be a pianist and those on which you've raised. So please provide back subsidies for local communities of local budgets so that they can support people during this extremely difficult period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u62	Regarding tariff policy. There's no trick going on here, and it can't happen. Of course, first and foremost, both the government, and parliament, and the authorities of local self-government, have to make sure that people pay a fair price for that, market service, emphasis, we've moved to the market, it's not a market, it's a market service that's supposed to cost people a fair price that they can afford to pay, it's a very important moment. And there are no other ways to do that when responsibility is placed on local communities. This is the way the entire civilized Europe lives. A very important moment is, of course, the payment of subsidies to vulnerable populations. The very important point is that the NAC Naftogaz State Shareholder Company gives a fixed tariff of three years, the price fixed for three years for thermal utility companies, which today has 7.42 copies of VAT, and so the price, I've already talked about these prices, on the hoods in Europe, is fluctuating and has already exceeded 20,000 dollars per thousand cubes. Accordingly, today is a very important moment and there are no tricks here, and I ask you not to manipulate the important issue that we are discussing here today with regard to preparation for the heating season and tariff policy. Regarding pension insurance, I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Social Policy to also give us moments where the amount of pension this year has increased for those people who need it. Please, Counselor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u63	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you for asking. Indeed, a number of measures and steps have been taken to increase pension insurance this year. Starting on March 1, the indexation of pensions, the increase in pensions in relation to the minimum wage, and the subsistence minimum. Total average pension size.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u64	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olza Anatolini, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Andrew Sharaskin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u66	Andrew Sharaskin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u67	Andrew Sharaskin, Justice Union. Oh, God, hello. Questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy. Question one. As part of the visit, several memoranda were signed with the stated sums for the construction of new nuclear power grids of 25 to 30 billion. First, who pays for it, and on what grounds? And the next question. How is it that the financial reserve in the operation of nuclear facilities is now being filled, given that the terms of the extended operation of several blocs in Ukraine expire nine years later? Thank you, I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u68	The Minister of Energy, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. In fact, in the signed memorandum between Energoat and Westinghouse, it's about, first, building a block at the Hmelnicka atomic station, it's a pilot project, and then building another 4 blocks. It's about building blocks on existing stations right now. So it's 2 blocks at Zaporozhye Station, the South Ukrainian 4th and the Plains 5th. Depending on the output of the operation. In fact, every 10 years there is an appropriate analysis and an extension of the use of blocks. That's why the fund exists, and it's now filled with about 5 billion. And in this respect, there's a very clear understanding that the issue of first blocks, and this is two blocks at Rowena Station, two 440 blocks, is going to be studied closer to 30. And that's not the fact that they're going to be out in 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u70	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u71	Good day to you all! Mikola Road, "Serial of the People" faction, Susten. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. In preparation for the heating season, the city of Ohttirka needs special attention. I have a request for you to speed up the transfer of Ohtyr TEC to utility property. So that the city and the district administration could prepare for the heating season, and 40,000 people could be provided with heat. That's the first question. Second question to the Minister of Economy. You have letters from the district administration regarding the transfer from Ukranafta to the district administration of the so - called district road. The 40th-century city is suffering from trucks running around the city. Please speed up the transfer process so the city can produce project and cost documentation. And the question. I can't make it. Thank you. Answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u72	Thank you for your questions. In fact, it's two questions like two parliamentary questions with assignments from a national MP. First, on the Ottirka. The Minister of Community and Territory Development personally met with the appropriate heads of local government, with the leadership of the Ohtyr TEC. Today, government training is under way, and we have activated it. As far as transmission is concerned, the ability to transfer to utility property, so the materials are being prepared, we're going to accelerate. Regarding the second part, I will also ask the minister to provide an answer. But now on Ohtyrka, if there's such a need, Alexy Mikhailovich, would you add some information?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u73	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! In fact, very systematic and daily work is being done with local self - government authorities in preparation for the new heating season. As far as the Suma area is concerned, it is also in focus, and the issues that are being addressed will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u74	You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u75	On the other hand, it's actually a matter of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u76	It's a separate MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u77	A separate MP's request, we'll do it, there's a technical request.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u78	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to give the floor to the honourable MP, Volosin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u80	Oleg Anatolyovich Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u81	Thank you. I have a question for the respectable Dmitry Ivanovich Kuleba. Dmitry Ivanovich, here you are, regarding the Crimea Platform, using the epithets of "unprecedented," "historic," "piercing." But as a very smart person, I'm sure you're using some sort of frame of reference as to what. Let's remember, I think you know this brilliantly, that in the 14th year, the UN General Assembly Resolution, which confirmed Ukraine's Crimea, supported more than a hundred countries. And now the facts on the Crimean platform. Of the Great Seven countries, no heads of government or state, not even a foreign minister. From the Great Twenties, the only foreign minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkey. If I had been asked in the early part of August, tell me exactly who would arrive, I would have named Erdogan, Johnson, the Prime Minister of Canada, Trudo, or at least the Foreign Minister of Blinken. None of these people were there. If in these circumstances you call the Crimean Platform a breakthrough, what is the result of your system failure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u82	Thank you. For me, Oleg Anatoliyovich, failure is when internal political interests are higher than foreign policy, when Ukraine needs to be protected and promoted in the world arena. But the discrediting of the Crimea Platform that you're trying to implement right now is just an example of this approach. The Crimea platform has become a historic event because since 2014, there has been no international mechanism for working on the Crimea. All the nations that participated in it signed under the Crimean Declaration made commitments as states, not as specific officials. And there's a historical achievement in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u83	The sin of Julia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u84	Dear Chairman, I have a question for Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich of Ukraine. Denis Anatoliyovich, yesterday the Supreme Council voted 296 for the confirmation of the interim report of the interim commission of inquiry on the issue of the status of Urzalznice. We all find today that the enterprise is in critical condition and one of the main reasons for such a state-of-the-art strategic enterprise is that it is an unprofessional, underprivileged management of this state-owned enterprise. We have repeatedly addressed you about the change in this leadership, which has led to this situation, and I have a question. Why have not members of the Governing Council been replaced so far, especially since their contracts ended in June? Why are there not substituted members of the government whose business is currently operating -- minus 12 billion damages? And when will these decisions be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. In fact, it's very important that Ukrazlaznica is one of the most important and one of the largest state-owned enterprises in Ukraine. The Department of Infrastructure is working and at the level of the Cabinet Secretariat is now preparing to hold a competition for the selection of members of the Supervisory Board of this company. There have also been and are changes in the rule and direction of the Crossroads. That is, there is part of the members of the government who are being released, and other members of the government will be appointed accordingly. I will also ask the deputy minister of infrastructure to add more specific information to this question if you have it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u86	Thank you. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, the question is being considered, we are doing a full-time job, creating an anti-crisis headquarters on the work of the Ukrzalznice. This is the headquarters of the Minister of Infrastructure. All experts are involved. We're going to be working on, directly, how to fix the business's functioning. As for the work on the Supervisory Board and in the administration, the Prime Minister, in fact, commented as it is. Work is under way and the competition will soon be announced according to government decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u87	Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u88	My question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, do you see me? I just asked you a question about the price of gas for the heat utility. And you said to the whole country that the price wouldn't change. I now have in my hands the government of the Ukrainian City Association, which I asked you right after the transfer, where the mayors clearly wrote that last year there were 4 bracelets of VAT for the heat utility and now there were 7.4. That means 1.5 times the price of heating. And for the budget area last year, there were seven VAT dollars of their document, and now there's going to be 18 VAT dollars, that's 2.5 times more. And they're now forced from the budget to cover this difference, that's 25 billion dollars, they're incapable of doing that. Why did you lie, and what will be the real price of heating during this period?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u89	It's a slogan. Excuse me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. First of all, it's impossible to force the heads of cities, heads of communities to pay something out of the budget, especially when their duty to form and maintain these tariffs is to enable people to pay that money. That is, it is the direct responsibility of local governments in Ukraine today to set tariffs that people can pay. That's part one. Part two. We're very careful to analyze every heat utility. Today, we work with more than two hundred heat utilities, and each situation is different. I made it very clear that prices are fluctuating. If there are some isolated cases, there we are working separately with the heatcommuneers and the mayors in part, as I said, to support them, and the government is ready to lay its shoulders, so we are ready to continue with the already signed memorandum to implement the 1639 voted Law to work with the heads of the city and with the heads of the community. We do this work daily, a professional minister practically once a week, at least, sometimes more often, is now working with a corresponding association of cities. Every day we work with the city’s heads and with the heat utility, this work is done daily. So the government sees no reason today to increase the tariffs on hot and hot water by local self-government, provided that we are willing to lay our shoulders, of course, for this work we are doing, Julia Volodymyrna. And we're not going to lie to anyone, I'm always saying very reliable, clear figures, information and facts from this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u91	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u92	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Natalia Pipi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u93	Pippi? Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u94	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister. We're now preparing a budget and an education issue. The content of education and the quality of education will be when we invest in teacher training. I have an immediate question and a request for you and the Minister of Education and I have been talking to Mr. Marchenk about putting enough money in place to train the teachers of the New Ukrainian High School. This is the first question to put money into this retraining. And the second question is that about 15 communities in Ukraine, including a large part of them in the Lviv region, do not have a fourth quarter of what they pay because of partial decentralization and that this year the formula has not been changed. Are we prepared to cover this money from the reserves, since in the fourth quarter, our teachers will be left with no wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u95	Vitotrowicz Volodymyr I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u96	Please give an answer to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u97	Dear Natalia Romanovna, distinguished national MPs! In fact, there's a discussion today and there's a productive work with the Ministry of Finance to create a new budget for the 22nd year after education. There are negotiations today on a new mechanism for calculating that formula for educational subsidies, and we are at the final stage about covering the cost of preparing for the higher qualification of teachers for the 5-9 class of the New Ukrainian School. Indeed, such a program is foreseen in the budget in 2022. And with regard to covering the expenses of some communities for the fourth quarter of this year, there is a mechanism that allows for the use of residual educational subsidies, but there is a certain amount of autumn subsidies that can cover such expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u98	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u99	Please give it to Juliana Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u100	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u101	Prime Minister, we don't live in a locked space, our citizens and businesses are looking for conditions of life and work better than in our country. That's obvious to everyone. Do you know about all the new proposals from neighbouring countries: "return and pay 50 percent of the income tax on natural persons," "reinvest technology and don't pay income taxes." Have you not matured to stop considering the draft Law 5600 and to propose a new economic tax policy, but not to individual operators, because of corruption offerings of the type of “investment” but for business as a whole? Please tell me, is there such a bill, and when we see it, and are you going to make a choice?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u102	Project 5600 is currently under consideration in Parliament, and the right of committees of profile, and national deputies today to consider accepting it or not accepting it. That's the first one. The other one. The issue of creating the right conditions and the number of jobs in Ukraine is a complex issue, which unfortunately will not be resolved by one single bill. We need to do methodical work both in the legislative sphere and in the area of reform, the reforms that are under way today. It's about jobs. Today, I want to point out that the number of unemployed people officially registered is less than 300,000, and at the start of quarantine it is 361,000. Today, there are some 70,000 vacancies in the Employment Fund. So the number of jobs, especially in the area of construction, in other areas, in agriculture, in the agricultural sphere, is also increasing. Government programs to support small and medium -sized businesses are being developed and proposed. The 5-7-9 program, I remind you, today more than 60 billion dollars of new and restructured loans are issued at appropriate interest rates, which also supports small and medium-sized businesses and helps create new jobs. Let me remind you that the first average wage in Ukraine officially exceeded 14.5,000 dollars, which is more than $520, and continues to rise. So all of these indicators show, first of all, economic recovery, second of all, job creation. Of course, we're going to work on investing in new investments, creating new jobs, because we have a pretty large number of people already working abroad. And of course, we intend to, it's stipulated in the government programme, in the Ukrainian President's programme, we intend to return all the people who want to return to Ukraine and have a decent salary here, to return to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u103	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u104	Mr. Prime Minister, my third point is that the local authorities of self-governance have received official documents that the price of gas for heating is raised from 4 bracelets of VAT on average to 7.4 bracelets of VAT. And that means that the price of heat, the tariff on heat, has to be raised for people one and a half times. You can't not know that. Now you've given false information, false information, to society that heat tariffs will not be raised. That's not true. And what you're now forcing the mayors to pay from their budgets is this price difference, they don't have that kind of money, that's what they made an official statement about the City Association. You have no right to force them. And so please tell me, are they going to raise the heat tariffs for people or not during this heating period?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u105	I mean, you gave me a draft, not a document. But the document is really published, and of course we are cooperating with the Association of Cities, and we understand what this is about. And once again, the government doesn't see the ground and do everything to keep the heat and hot water tariffs on this hot season fixed. And they're going to be constant. We're working with the City Association, we're working with the mayors, and today -- I repeat, once again for you -- the authority to change tariffs is now in the sphere of responsibility of local governments. Those authorities of local self-government that do not have the ability to hold tariffs go to the Ministry of Community and Territory Development, and together we are looking for an opportunity to plant our shoulders. And I'm convinced that people's deputies will support budget changes if it's necessary to be able to give it to those who need it, really need it not to be manipulated and abused, because when there's a rise in the salaries of directors of utilities, but they say they have to do it, and they want to pay 70-80 thousand and they say they have to raise the tariff for the population, the government won't allow such situations. Of course, we will stand up for people’s interests, and we will not allow an increase in tariffs. And that's why manipulation when someone says someone's pushing the mayors. Mary is obliged to keep and provide people with tariffs that were and that people can pay is the responsibility of local governments. As a government, we are ready to lay our shoulders, convinced that Parliament also has the absolute good will to help local self-government in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u106	Denis Anatolyevich, I have a question with your permission. During the work trip to Mikolayovska on July 28, there were many questions from shipbuilding officials in Ukraine. Do we now have a government-designed strategy for the development of this sector? If so, in what state, how is it performed? And the second question is short for the minister of health. Tell me, please, we have 16 billion unexploded funds now. Are we preparing for COVID? All right, so we're gonna make it by the end of the year to meet all the planned expenses associated with your ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regarding the development of the shipbuilding industry. Of course, this is part of the government program project. First of all, we have a plan of action for a government approved. Secondly, the updated version of the programme that we will prepare will bring a lot of attention to Parliament, as well as to this topic. And accordingly, starting with the development of the U.S. Navy, ending with a river fleet, all these things are, and the Department of Defense has, of course, incorporated them into the program and into the government's plan of action and this, and the following year. With regard to the second part of the question, ask the profile minister to give the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u108	Good day, distinguished national deputies, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Yes, we do have funds in the Ministry of Health today. And we saw the fall in COVID during the summer period, which allowed us to divide the hospital into a few waves -- the first, the second and the reserve to make optimal use of the resource when the disease increases on COVID. Today, we have a clear understanding of three scenarios of disease progression -- optimistic, moderate and pessimistic. And when we talk about the pessimistic scenario, the peak need for beds will be 70,000 378 beds, of which 49,000 265 will need oxygen. Today, we have the number of beds that will fully provide for this need, but we realize that when peak loads occur, there will be an increase in the number of costs that should come to health facilities. Plus, at this cost, we've already auctioned off the purchase of 600 emergency care machines, 24 angiographs to go to the region, also purchased, but not yet paid for the supply of drugs for treatment, particularly tocilizumab and remdesiver. Thus, the health system prepares for potential growth. But with the opportunity, I urge everyone to do their social mission -- come and do the vaccination against COVID.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u109	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished officials. Let's get back to our work and you'll get back to yours. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of legal services by the National Bank of Ukraine (registration number 5852). Offered. Please prepare for the vote. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:53:47]] For 184 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, today we are considering the fourth of the draft bills to amend the laws on the National Bank of Ukraine on ensuring its independence and independent status in relations in the banking system, as well as with the authorities of the state. And this bill, it's called upon to effectively defend the State's interests in involving consultants, legal advisers in the purchase of legal services in foreign countries. If today the National Bank will, as now, engage these services through ProZorro, through tenders on normal terms, in fact people who are interested in not getting quality services can actually freeze the conclusion of appropriate contracts with lawyers, which is what is actually going on. To simplify this mechanism and protect the interests of the state, it is proposed that this small law be passed. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u111	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The word is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u112	Thank you, colleagues. The Committee on Economic Development, at its meeting on 9 September, reviewed the draft Law 5852 on the purchase of legal services by the National Bank of Ukraine, submitted by the Group of National Deputies, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the project be adopted on the basis of further development in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules. In particular, taking into account the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the elimination of some of the disagreements and the proposals made to the bill, such as the establishment of appropriate mechanisms for State control and reporting, the purchase of legal services by the National Bank of Ukraine, as envisaged by the bill. The Committee approved the decision to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the proposal to announce, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act, "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" during the consideration of the bill in plenary session, the need for proposals and amendments for corrections, clarifications, the elimination of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not subject to consideration in the first part and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. In this regard, the Committee believes that since the second reading, the shortcomings noted should be corrected and the decision taken. Finally, he recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Law 5852 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u114	Please give the floor to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u115	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u116	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that there have been a lot of discussions around this bill. The committee’s first decision did not make a decision, and a number of comments were made. And yesterday at the committee meeting, which was about transparency, efficiency in the use of public funds, and we're talking about human costs, citizens' costs, we've made a compromise decision on first reading. The second important question that we see is that we've been looking at a lot of bills recently aimed at introducing new exclusions in different areas for ministries to reject the procurement transparency procedure. And to my deep conviction, this is not the best way. This has been used for four years in another parliament, and this has been absolutely positive. And we see the real use of the funds, we see their effectiveness. As a result of the discussion at the meeting of the profiling committee, we agreed that between the first and second readings, this bill would be finalized in the order of article 116 of the Rules and the purchase of legal services for the purposes of the National Bank of Ukraine. They will not be an exception to the Procurement Act, as it is now, and will be implemented in accordance with this law. I would ask that we should listen to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and understand article 40 of the procurement negotiation procedure. So today we're asking questions about the people who introduced this bill: I'm personally on a committee meeting. Our political power "European Solidarity" in the first reading will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u117	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u118	Olga Stefanishin, "Justice." Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u119	The word is passed on to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u120	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” In fact, we can accept the need to simplify the purchase process. But I agree with what you said earlier, it can't be ProZorro. As Transparency International Ukraine concludes, the fact is that DOZORRO and international practice: if exceptions become exceptions to the tender procedure, exceptions become rules. Now we have an offer where the National Bank can buy, and only in fact will we have information as such. And we need to put it back into the contractual procedure, really simplify it, shorten the terms, maybe even in five days. And then we'll know for sure that (a) the procedure is protected, (b) controlled by the state. We can't create holes in the purchasing law. This is one of our achievements after the Dignity Revolution. Therefore, by supporting the first reading of the proposal for adoption, I also support the proposal of the Preparatory Committees for the Second Reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, which allows for substantial changes. And I stress the key changes in this aspect is the return to the contractual procedures system and the clear setting of terms. Control can't be neglected. So in the first reading, we accept. But ask the initiators: Do not initiate the creation of schematics. Don't initiate the output, actually, of the procedure for the operation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u121	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I have a question: why do we need the ProZorro system anyway? Maybe we can eliminate it at all and not tell our citizens what and where we are being purchased by our government authorities and institutions? And I have another question: why do we need 4,000 Nazbank employees? And why do we spend more than a billion dollars on them if we don't even know what the cost is and who they're buying legal services from? We all remember how the government of famous Pottery bought reports in 100 of its first days in some unknown FOP for 84,000 dollars. These are the slides they showed us. And now you want to get the information that, where, like, who they're going to buy. You know how this ends. It's under their law firms that these orders will be distributed in unknown terms. And then why are we paying for the leadership, including all the law departments and the direction, for such large salaries? And I want to remind you that there are 100,000 dollars, 200, 300, 80, 50 thousand dollars of wages for these workers. Then why do we need them? This law output the purchase of services from under ProZorro. What are you doing? We will abstain in voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u123	Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, we've had a very gruesome discussion on this committee, and what are these exceptions to the ProZorro Act? As we voted for ProZorro, we said it was the best tool to make all purchases transparent and efficient. Today's argument by the authors of this bill, which gives greater independence to the National Bank, is completely out of line. For decades, the National Bank has been working and has not asked questions about the exclusion of purchases. To that end, there is a term in the Legal Department for him to be able to respond effectively in his own time to all legal challenges. There's been an argument that we have the risk of losing our gold stocks because there are a lot of lawsuits. I mean, all lawsuits in foreign countries last years, and that's enough time for the legal department to defend them. And that's why this argument doesn't really answer. Moreover, there are other procedures, including negotiation procedures. We rejected the bill on Wednesday's committee. And yesterday, as an alternative, as the compromise agreed that article 116 would be involved. And we will insist within our committee that there be agreement only on terms of contracts and there is no exception to the application of the procedure outside of ProZorro. So our faction is not going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u125	All those who wish to speak? Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Then we vote. Please give your word to Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this bill is an example of political corruption. Why Political Corruption? Think of two processes. Does everyone remember naphtogas abroad? Are you going to win the madman? About the crazy bonuses, everyone knows everybody was screaming in the hall? And who took part in representing Ukraine? Was the contest transparent? No, he wasn't. Another process is the presentation of Ukraine on Private Bank processes. What's the subject? It's on the subject. Was the competition transparent? I wasn't. So why don't we say that this procedure existed and exists, and so far it's being used. At present, we realize that something is burning, and we simply want to enforce the law. It is necessary not to vote in favour of these bills, but to deal with those processes that have passed, to hold them accountable, and then only.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u127	Thank you. All of them. "Trust" didn't come forward? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of legal services by the National Bank of Ukraine (registration No. 5852). Please support and vote. [[12:07:24]] For 280 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Possible Offences of Officials of the State Space Agency of Ukraine (National Space Agency of Ukraine) and Space Enterprises, particularly in the implementation of the Libya and Cyclone-4 projects. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Registration number 5477. Please support and vote. [[12:08:07]] For 247 Decision taken. The country’s national deputy, Taruta, Sergey Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Establishment of a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the Investigation of Possible Offences of Officials of the State Space Agency of Ukraine and Enterprises in the Space Sector, particularly during the implementation of the Libide and Cyclone projects, is being proposed. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine gained a very high potential -- 33 companies that produced both missiles and satellites. Since the beginning of the space program, two billion dollars have been allocated by the State. That $2 billion went into several projects, and we got huge damage. The sea start losses amounted to $200 million. The damage to the Cyclone project amounted to $672 million. The damage to the swan satellite project now in Krasnoyarsk is $350 million. It's also on the South Side today, which is also not running, and it needs a lot of money. Of the 33 businesses that remain for today, only six remain, and they are in a very difficult situation. Part of it has been deconstructed, part has been eliminated, part privatized, and that shows what the state of space is today. And we understand that for each of us, space activity, space country is really important. Each of us has pride in what Ukraine has done in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u129	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u130	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its session, reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Relevant Temporary Investigation Commission (project number 5477), which proposes to elect the National Deputies, who are members of the People's Servant Party, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherhood and the Voice Party. From other parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups of proposals to this interim commission of inquiry did not come. In addressing this issue, the Regulatory Committee noted that the faction of the "Fatherland" Party was invited to elect the head of this commission, the Temporary Investigation Commission, the national deputy of Taruta, who was also invited to elect a member of another Interim Investigation Commission, to investigate the facts of international corruption involving senior officials of the State associated with the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and so on. This is draft regulation 2346, which was considered by the Regulatory Committee at its meeting on December 11, 2019 and is awaiting parliamentary consideration. Thus, the election of the national deputy Taruta to one of the Temporary Commissions of Inquiry would make it impossible for him to be part of another commission. In summary, the Regulatory Committee recommends that the Supreme Council consider the draft regulation and take a decision taking into account the Committee’s observations on the Taruta MP in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Is there a vote? Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I'll bet on the vote. Excuse me. I am voting on a draft decree establishing a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible illegal actions by officials of the State Space Agency of Ukraine (National Space Agency of Ukraine) and businesses in the space sector, particularly in the implementation of the Libya and Cyclone-4 projects. I'm betting on the committee's proposal to accept it as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u132	5477. Please support and vote. [[12:13:37]] For 281 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is bill registration number 3989. That's what I understand, no discussion. I'm betting on the vote on a proposal for acceptance as a whole. Excuse me, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to clarify the order of access of notaries to the Single National Demographic Register (registration number 3989). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:14:28]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the illegal detention of the first deputy head of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people, Nariman Jeljlov, and other representatives of the Crimean Crimea people in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the Russian Federation (registration No. 6007). It was suggested that we consider the matter. There's no objection. We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, which requires 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:15:31]] For 303 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. There is also a need for 226 votes of support. Please support and vote. [[12:15:58]] For 305 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:16:22]] For 264 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Umerov Rustem Enverovich is invited to attend. Ahtem Chigoz? Ahtem Chigoz Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the Presidium! In general, I think we need to raise this question every week, because it's really for Ukraine, in order to think that we're going to defeat the enemy, we need to prove it, especially on this issue. Why? Nariman Jelalov is now at the SZO on a special block, and, you know, this Aksion gang under Putin's cover is about to start a new fight against the Crimean Tatar people on ethnic grounds. We have today signs that all Crimean Tatars will now be accused of being the people they consider a terrorist nation. Therefore, our responsibility is to put in place such mechanisms to prevent the gang from starting with Crimean Tatars. On August 23, we made a very important decision in Parliament, where we said that we were beginning to create an interparliamentary dimension of the Crimea platform. Unfortunately, the Crimean Platform has not come out with a single statement against the occupation of Crimea. So let us take steps that will force our participants in the Crimean Platform to take more decisive action against the invader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed that this issue was not discussed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the committee and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the illegal detention of the first deputy head of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people of Nariman Jelalov and other representatives of the Crimea people in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the Russian Federation (registration No. 6007). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:19:50]] For 293 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 209, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherland" – 17, "The Future Party" – 9, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 13, "the Non-Factional" – 7. Dear colleagues, there is still an offer to consider Bill 3427 without discussion. It's a bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act against gender discrimination. It's a second reading. No one's insisting, is there? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Law on Advertising of Ukraine on the Resistance to Discrimination by Sign of Sex (Registration No. 3427). Please support and vote. [[12:20:54]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have eight minutes left. Anatoly Igorovich, everyone can hear you, I can see that you support the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, there's an offer to move on to questions a little earlier, because you asked a lot of questions -- 116 -- and we're not going to be able to get through any questions. Is there no objection? None. Today, this honorary mission will be carried out by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u135	Thank you. Because Helen Constantine's, unfortunately, is forced to separate, so let's continue this question in our direction. Therefore, fellow Members, we have five requests to the President of Ukraine who need a vote, so I will ask the national deputies to vote. The first request to the President of Ukraine for the adoption of the Presidential University, which created Green, the name of Vladimir the Great. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to place a name vote in favour of the request. I said it clearly, yes. Please. I'm asking the above questions. Please vote. [[12:22:46]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The request did not receive any previous support. Next request from National Deputy Geo Leros to the President of Ukraine for the concern of President Vladimir Zelensky of the Russian Federation for the assignment of the honorary title "deserved employee of the FSB of Russia" to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Andriy Jermak, for his personal contribution to the failure of the special operation from the detention of members of the VAC "Vagner". I'm betting on my previous support. Please vote. [[12:23:32]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next question. Group of National Deputies (Bobrowska, Heratchenko and others) A total of 16 deputies) to the President of Ukraine regarding the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine with the honour of the Order of the State (after death) as one of the founders of the People's Movement of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the Red Vasil Mikhajlovich. I'm betting on a previous request for support. Please support and vote. [[12:24:14]] For 296 Decision taken. This was previous support. And now I'm betting on a motion, a vote in favour of sending a preliminary parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[12:24:43]] For 295 Decision taken. Another request to the President of Ukraine. A group of national deputies (Bobrowska, Sharaskin and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the President of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the National Museum of Ukraine to the Odessa Art Museum. I'm betting on a previous request for support. Please support and vote. [[12:25:18]] For 319 Decision taken. I am now putting forward a pre-supported parliamentary request for his President of Ukraine, and I need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:25:43]] For 319 Decision taken. And the final request to the President of Ukraine for today is a request from National Deputy Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine to a fighter of the 80th Special Storm Brigade, the cyborg of Police Officer Petr Petrovich (mortal). I'm asking you for prior support. Please support and vote. [[12:26:22]] For 318 Decision taken. I now put to the vote a preliminary parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine for the referral of his President to Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[12:26:46]] For 319 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we move on to the questions of others, not to the President of Ukraine. Olga Saladuha’s request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the support of athletes who have completed their sports career is announced. Request for a group of national deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of Mary Mangul’s appeal to ensure that she enjoys social rights and guarantees. Request for a group of national deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to check the facts of a possible irregular increase in tariffs. Request for a group of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Liman Rural Council of Bilgorod-Dnistrov Region of Odessa, Tatarbunar City Council of Odessa Region for the use of agricultural land. Request for a group of national deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyiv City State Administration, the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection for violations of acceptable sanitary standards. Request for a group of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyiv City State Administration, the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection for the improper provision of housing and utility services. Request for a group of national deputies (Heraschenko, Gerasimov and others) A total of 4 deputies) are headed by the head of the Cerka District State Administration to provide official information on the value of the construction of the Art complex "Geographical Center – the Heart of Ukraine" in the village of Maryanovka Cerkaske district. Request for a group of national deputies (Heraschenko, Gerasimov and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Official Information on Armed Forces and Military Technology of the Ukrainian Armed Forces presented in the cities of Ukraine at a ceremony marking the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence on 24 August 2021. Request for a group of Ukrainian national deputies (Heraschenko, Gerasimova, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the Kharkiv District Administration, regarding the improper consideration of the parliamentary question of resolving the issues of the production of a duplicate certificate of basic general secondary education of Dejevo I.A. Request for a group of national deputies (Heraschenko, Gerasimov and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the provision of additional information on the composition of the official delegation of the National Assembly Team of Ukraine for participation in the Tokyo-2020 Games XXIX Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. Request for the National Deputy Boris Pridjick to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of the National Target Program for Fire and Technological Security in Social Institutions. The request of National Deputy Boris Idject to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to address the urgent problems of the education sector. Request for a group of national deputies (Heraschenko, Gerasimov and others) On 24 August 2021, he headed the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People", Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, to provide additional information on the Italian singer Andrea Bocelli's charity concert, organized as part of the celebration of Ukraine's 30th anniversary of independence at the square of the Constitution near the Marien Park in Kiev. The request by the national deputy Paul Halimon to the Attorney General for action in connection with the illegal acquisition of property of a state enterprise. Requesting the Attorney General of the People’s Deputy, Alexander Kachura, to take action in connection with the illegal acquisition of property of a state enterprise. Oh, I'm sorry, Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for preserving the operation of the machinery complex in Ukraine. A request from National Deputy Michael Bondar for the temporary headship of the Ukrainian State Service for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre for the allocation of land rations in the territory of the Zadwárian Rural Council. People’s MP Michael Bondar’s request to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine to clarify the problem of pensioning to miners. The request of the National Deputy Victor Mealik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of the I-III Higher Education School of the Rhineland Region. Request for Ukrainian National Deputy Irina Konstankević to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to increase the quota for international transport of goods. Request of National Deputy Irina Konstankević to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the inclusion of the Manevicka Central District Hospital in the list of health-care facilities. The request of National Deputy Alexander Sukhova for the temporary headship of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine regarding the state of the R-66 road, which is the route of regional importance, and the issuance of documents relating to the repair of the road in 2020, as well as the documents on the announced tenders for the capital repair of R-66, N-26, T-13-02 in the Luhansk region. Alexander Sukhova to the temporary duty of head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine to provide information on the reasons for the change in the management of the Railway Service in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas, and to report on the work of road managers in the areas indicated. People's MP Sergey Ljovczyn's request to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of increasing the rate of increase in debt from wages. Requesting John Shinkarenko and Antonina Slavicki to the Kyiv City State Administration for repairing transport infrastructure. The request of national deputies John Shinkarenko and Antonina Slavicki to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the use of effective measures to provide adequate services to residents in the area of housing and utilities. A request from national deputy Alexander Tkachenka to the Ukrainian State Service for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding violations of land use procedures. People's Deputy Vladimir Aresonkov's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the rental of state and municipal property by non-profit public organizations. Request for the National Deputy Roman Gritchcock to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase scholarships with the preservation of the payee's share. Request for information on the activities of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. A request from the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for information on the activities of the Institute of Agriculture Step of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Request for a group of national deputies (Losinsky, Bezgina, and others) A total of 10 deputies) are under the leadership of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the merger of Ukraine from New York to Uzhgorod. Request Nina Jujanina to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Agency, for proposals submitted to the bill containing signs of corruption. The request by Jaroslav Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the proper storage of archive documents from the personnel issues of the Open Shareholders Association of the Lviv Telegraph Company. Request by Taras Batenka to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the continuous development and reconstruction of central water supply systems and for the water management of the Ukrainian population. People's deputy Maxim Zarsky's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of housing and utility tariffs for the population during the autumn-winter period 2021-2022. The request of the National Deputy Maksim Zarski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Czernovetsk District State Administration for speeding up the process of opening a new school in the village of Ust-Putil Visnitnicky district of Cherniewec region, whose construction is completed under the Grand Building Program. Roman Lozinski's request to the minister of justice of Ukraine for the verification of Lutsky M.H. Roman Lozinski's request to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to impose sanctions on participants and organizers of illegal elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation. Alexander Guerrega’s request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding of the objects of the Jarmoline village united district community of the Hmelni district of Hmelni district for a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for measures for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Alexander Guerrega's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent a rise in the value of natural gas for heating utilities and the need for public financial support for the transfer of gas boilers to solid fuels. Alexander Kunicki's request to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the need for architectural and building control and supervision. Roman Ivanov's request to the Attorney General regarding the biased investigation by the law enforcement authority of fraud. Gregoria Mamka's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to provide information on the implementation of the Ukraine's Big Building programme and to ensure the free passage of freight transport to the Odessa port." Request of National Deputy Hennadia Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Agency of Roads of Ukraine, Service of Roads in the Vinnitsky region on the need to repair the road to the general use of the state value of T-23-08 Gukiv - Danube - Mogilov-Podilski. Request by Hennady Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, the Service of Roads in the Vinnitsk Region on the need to repair the road to the general use of the state value T-02-02 Mogilov-Podilski-Yampil-Berszad-Uman. Requesting the National Anti-Corruption Agency, National Deputy Artem Blackmaorov. A request from the Ukrainian National Deputy of the July Light to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the debt owed to the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". The request by the National Deputy of the Lighthouse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admissibility of increasing the cost of gas for the population and the application of measures to minimize the negative impact of price changes on the population and economic operators. Requesting the National MP, Dmitry Nalotov, to the director of the Poltava-Servis utility company of the Poltava City Council for information. Oxana Savichuk's request to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, who is responsible for the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's Government for the restoration of the suburban train by connecting the city of Ivano-Frankivsk-City of Hodorov. Oxana Savichuk's request to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the use of response measures to protect the rights of the owners of Sokoli garage cooperative in the Ivano-Frankiv region. Request for information from the National Deputy Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, on 80 projects of the Ukrainian transformation plan totalling $277 billion, presented by Volodymyr Zelenski in the United States. A request from National Deputy Geo Leros to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine to verify the legality of the use by Andrey Jermak, President of Ukraine, of cover-up numbers on his own car. Request for information from the National MP, Artem Černomorov, to the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai district. Request for the National Deputy of Artem Cernomorov to the National Police Directorate in the Mikolai district regarding the provision of information. Artem Blackmoorov's request to the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences for a competition. Dmitry Nalotov's request to the head of the Environmental, Environmental and Sanitary Inspection Authority of Poltava for information on request. A request from Oleg Kolev to the Attorney General for the effectiveness of the work of the Malinov District Attorney’s Office in Odessa. Alexia Kovalova’s request to the Attorney General for the improper conduct of criminal investigations into the conduct of criminal proceedings against officials of the Bekhter United District Society for the local budget in repairing the roof of the music school in the village of Behter and the heating system of the Behter and Alexievsky Institutes of complete general secondary education. Paul Melnik's request to Deputy Prime Minister for Digital Transformation of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information, Head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for the Revitalization of Measures to Address the Low Quality of Mobile Communications and Provision of Mobile Internet Services in Primorsk, para. Kirilovka, the village of Primorski, the village of Stepanovka, the First and other resorts of Priazovje District. Paul Melnik's request to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories, Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Opposition District Administration, Head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio on the activation of measures to address the low coverage problem with an air signal T2 in the city of Tokmak, Primorsk, as well as in other population locations of Pologov, Berdian and Melitopol region of Zaporozky. Request for a group of national deputies (Chernyeva, Sharaszkyna, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the minister of internal affairs on the precedent for the admission of the troops of the volunteer battalion of Sheikh Mansour to the sanctions list. Requesting National Deputy Roman Lozinski to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for a ban on entry into Ukraine to a person who poses a threat to national security, Morgenstern. Mikoli Kucher to Chief of State Tax Administration in Kiev, Chief of State Tax Administration in Sumska District, Chief of State Tax Administration in the Lviv Region in respect of the accrual of income (wage) to the citizen of Narusevich N.O. enterprises with which she did not have a working relationship that caused the subsidy to be withdrawn. Requesting National Deputy Igor Abramovich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister for Veterans of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the use of measures aimed at settling the issue of payment of annual cash assistance by May 5th. Igora Abramovic to the first Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the use of measures aimed at restoring compensation to enterprises, institutions and organizations of average earnings for employees appointed to military service. Request of National Deputy Igor Abramovich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Association of Shareholders of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine for the use of measures aimed at protecting the rights of consumers of financial services. And today's latest request by National Deputy George Mazuras to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for information. Dear colleagues, the questions are over. There's another statement from the National Deputy Suska. Please count my voice against it. Question, I read the request of the People's Deputy Geo Leros to the President of Ukraine. It'll be yours. What do you got? A button, an epidemic of buttons, yes. Similarly, I will read out a statement by Ukrainian national deputy Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayivna that she also informs that, at the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the President of Ukraine, who was bugged, she voted "retained".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-10-m0.u136	And you voted "against," I read. Dear colleagues, this plenary session is closed. Thank you.
