ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! National deputies of Ukraine are requested to prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Are you ready to register? Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:06:38]] To - 154. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, tonight our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, called Anton Eduardoovich Polakov, died. We express our heartfelt sympathy to our family and close to Anton Eduardovich. And please honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Dear colleagues, I understand that this may not be a very regular procedure. But, with your permission, I'd like to give the floor to our colleague, Taras Ivanovich Batenka, co-chair of the Party for the Future. Three minutes, please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, dear friends, respectable society! This is a black Friday for us. With unspeakable regret and sadness, we are talking about the death of our friend and companion. True, true love, decent, refinedly decent, honest, which, like many of you, broke into these walls of parliament to do good, only he understood it in his own way. The price of Ukrainian politics is his death. For someone, it's a rubicon and a cynical vote in the hall, and for someone, it's a confession. Age of Christ. When you've been collecting votes for the next session for months, and this room with empty lines faces the principles of a young man 33 years of age with his beliefs, once. The second time you're collecting an extra session, literally yesterday, and we meet and vote in empty lines, and we fail -- that's the price of Ukrainian politics. A well - known man said that politics is an unclean thing. At least the beginning of it should be clean. And Anton Polyakov made his honest and clean start in politics. Next. And then the heart couldn't hold. So we know, Anton, that you didn't like much. We are convinced that we will continue this path, and these beliefs, and those words that you have done, have spoken. And what you haven't done, we're going to be sounding in this room and not just in this room. With God rest, our friend and friend. Forever you, my friend, remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u3	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov. Let's also welcome him. [[Applause]] Let's get to work. Honourable National Deputies, since the Prime Minister of Ukraine is scheduled for deployment, only members of the government headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister participate in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please also welcome them. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, on Friday of 10 a.m. an hour of questions is held to the Government. At the suggestion of MPs and groups today, the government will answer questions about the state of preparation of the fuel-energy complex and housing-communal agriculture for the autumn-winter period of 2021/2022 and its provision of energy resources. Dear colleagues, the next order is proposed for the "hour of questions to the Government", as we have always planned, a report by the Minister of Energy of Ukraine from a specific topic – up to 20 minutes, an answer to questions from MPs and groups – up to 21 minutes and answers from government members to questions from Ukrainian national MPs – up to 20 minutes, i.e. 1 minute for each question and 2 minutes to answer it. There's no objection. Then, honourable colleagues, the Energy Minister of Ukraine, Herman Valeriyovich Galuchenko, is invited to the podium. Please, Herman Valeriyovich, 20 minutes of your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u4	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers! The autumn-winter period of 2021/22 is very important for Ukraine primarily because we are preparing to synchronize our energy system with the ENTSO-E European energy system. And now this is one of the most important projects for Ukrainian energy. This winter, our energy system is to go through the first test period in isolation. And such a test is very important and necessary for a further positive decision on the synchronization of the Ukrainian energy system by the ENTSO-E European system. By the end of the 22nd year, we have to get into the parallel work of the unified system, and in the 23rd, we have to get Ukraine's energy system in sync with the European system. The ENTSO-E synchronization will contribute both to our energy independence and to the development of a modern power market in Ukraine. And this is a significant step that is not only limited to technical issues of synchronization or networking, it is really about conceptual changes in the domestic market. And I am convinced that we will take this path and Ukraine will become part of this unified energy system. Of course, this heating season is under the influence of the world’s energy crisis. The price of coal and gas in world markets is now higher than the record. The world’s largest economies are experiencing shortages and sharp increases in energy prices, especially coal, gas, and electricity. Indeed, every day the issue of the European and global energy crisis is discussed in the newspapers and in the media. And for example, in the same United Kingdom, manufacturers and suppliers are now bankrupting. In China, there is a massive vortex failure of electricity. Consumption is limited in connection with electricity prices in Germany, Norway, Austria. And I'll tell you that this is really a huge problem for European countries. In this connection, even the energy commissioner recently said that the price shock should not be underestimated. And it's actually a big challenge. Because the price for today's energy coal in Europe for the first time in history has gone up to $300 per tonne, the TTF gas in the Netherlands has recently reached $2,000, the price of electricity in neighbouring countries has actually increased very much, if compared to the bracelet, it's almost four times -- and today the kilowatt costs between $10 and 12 dollars. And so, of course, we realize that there's a whole bunch of reasons why this is happening. On the other hand, we understand it's a question of political pressure, it's a question of the North Stream, it's a question of the Turkish flow, and it's all going on from the point of view of gas being used not as a commodity, but as a weapon, and we're talking about it on all international sites. Of course, such a crisis affects Ukraine. Because of the significant increase in gas prices, we lost electricity producers from gas. Gas - powered thermal power plants have significantly reduced the production of electricity, thus increasing the burning of coal. Thus, producers producing 25 percent of their hydrocarbon energy in the country have stopped their production by virtue of gas prices, which is the loss of 3,000 megawatts of their energy system. In places where they don't buy gas and they don't produce electricity, so this increases the pressure on the system, and the state has to make quick decisions, and so we have to find ways to make up for the extra power that's indisposed. We're on time. And early preparations for the heating season, the plan was approved in June, updated the coal accumulation plan with NEK Krennergo, adjusted the forecast balance, in which electricity consumption increased by 4 percent, which would be covered primarily by nuclear power plants. And they predicted this extra reserve to compensate for the lack of adequate power at the heat power plants. Optimized decisions and plans for repairing power stations, such as a repair campaign. This will allow for an increase in the production of electricity by NAEC Energy during the energy deficit period 2021/22 years by 880 million kilowatt-hours, equivalent to saving about 450,000 tons of coal in TES warehouses. The approved program of anti-accident training of the transmission system operator, and it already took place on September 29th, they were successful. And they're very important because they allow the interaction of NEK Krennergo's controllers, power generators and distribution system operators in case there's a technological malfunction in the network. There is daily monitoring of the amount of coal supply, its operation, and the updating of the remnants in the TES warehouses. Selectorial consultations are regularly held with managers of appropriate enterprises and thermal power plants to deal quickly with the problems of coal production, such as logistics. A number of measures have been taken to ensure the generation's financial capacity to purchase energy resources. Of course, it is also worth noting that in the summer in Ukraine, the energy system also experienced economic difficulties. Because in some months, the price of electricity did not cover the cost of its production, especially at TEC, but even at nuclear power stations at certain times. Balanced market debt to balancing service providers and balancing parties exceeded 11 billion dollars. Of course, as we analyzed these trends, we immediately offered the regulator a range of solutions, such as changing price constraints on organized market segments, banning speculative trader transactions, setting a minimum selling price on the intraday market. Appropriate decisions were adopted by the regulator in August of this year. Of course, a different direction for preparation is the strengthening of security functions on the part of the State. Because we realized that the mechanisms available are very weak. And with the aim of increasing the responsibility of electricity producers, we've developed changes to the rules on the security of electricity supply, which reinforce the requirements for minimum coal reserves at TEC and TEC warehouses and control that is appropriate for their maintenance. So the point is that the state has to ensure security of supply. Because what we've seen is that among the reasons why we don't have enough coal today is the systematic failure of energy-generating enterprises to sustain their supply and stockpiling. In particular, during July-September, the actual supply of coal at the thermal power plant is about 1 million tons. According to the results of the relevant headquarters, which are conducted on a regular basis, it is recommended that the NCRECR should verify such electricity producers who have critically low reserves to meet their licensing conditions and take appropriate response measures. One way of stabilizing the energy market was, of course, the introduction of a new model of PSOs, especially their responsibilities, which had worked successfully since October 1. And in fact, it has fundamentally changed the market. Yes, and approach to the market. So today we've put in place a financial model for the PSO, which provides great opportunities for the nation's generation, that's Energoat and Ukrhydroenergo, and I've changed the mechanism of this market accordingly. And this is a very progressive step really from the point of view of energy market reform in Ukraine. And this, in turn, enabled the population tariff to be lowered from October 1st. So today, from October 1st for households that consume up to 250 kilowatts per month, the tariff is reduced to December 1st, 44th, and for the rest, the tariff is stored at the same level that it used to be, which is December 1st, 68th. In fact, this is dramatically below today’s market price, which is about 4.5 dollars. So this is a very important solution right before that energy crisis that's happening in the world right now, that we've actually managed to lower the electricity tariff. In the case of a steep rise in the price of hydrocarbons, we certainly bet on the atomic generation. We optimized the repair campaign of nuclear stations, and this year it actually has an atom. The atomic generation of ours is going to work in record power, we're planning to work at the same time 14 blocks out of 15. And compared to the previous heating season, the expected volumes of nuclear power plants will increase by 5.5 billion kilowatt-hours, reducing coal demand by about 3 million tons. As far as coal production costs are concerned, during October-March, the whole heating season, they are expected to be 15.3, with more than 9 million tons of self-supply expected, and the volume of imports under contract is about 4 million tons. And so we're looking forward to an additional supply of about 2 million tons during the whole heating season. Also through joint efforts, a decision has been found to stabilize the financial, first and foremost, the stability of the state coal generation of Centrenerego. This will allow the company to purchase the necessary amounts of coal, including in the external markets. A plan to prepare for the heating season is foreseen to start it in underground repositories of at least 17 billion cubic metres of gas. Today, gas repositories account for 18.8 billion cubic metres of gas. Now, at NAC Naftogaz, there's an adequate financial resource to increase such a repository, and it's consistent with the steady passage of the RAM. Also, the Ministry's initiatives have created a balancing group of Naftogaz, and from now on virtually the entire segment of the population's gas supply will work in this balancing group, which will guarantee this price of 7.42 per gas, because all suppliers in this balancing group will receive gas at this same price, and therefore the cost of blue fuel for consumers will remain stable throughout the heating season. Accordingly, Naftogaz, under direct annual contracts, will supply gas, and according to this annual product, it also ensures stability. I cannot help but mention the signed memorandum of understanding on the settlement of supply problems, and accordingly it also addresses a whole range of issues regarding gas price, regarding the guarantee of supply of this gas, and accordingly decides on how the State's mechanisms will apply to aid and appropriate compensation to local communities. And the very important question is, of course, the repair campaign, that's what we've been paying attention to very, very carefully. Because, if you remember, during the winter, including in the summer, the emergency at the thermal power plants and thermal power plants was very high, and so a number of measures were taken, including the Maintenance Department, to strengthen control of the completeness and quality of the repair work with the necessary facilities, so that we would not only receive information that is systematically provided, but were sure that the equipment is in good condition and that we would be able to withstand the corresponding peak loads expected during the IP. All generations actually go within the set repair deadlines. And for us, once again, maybe I want to point out that not only will there be a major number of repairs done there, yes, because there were repairs there last year, there was an appropriate information that those repairs are on the schedule and they, the number of repairs, correspond to the numbers that have been set, proved. In fact, it was discovered that during some periods a massive block failure began. Thus, not only is quality essential in this context but it is the quality of such repairs — the quality of the repair campaign. To sum up, I want to stress that this heating season will certainly be difficult, and it will go down against the backdrop of the international energy crisis, but the government of Ukraine has already taken steps to ensure stable and secure energy supply and protection of populations against tariff fluctuations. And on a daily basis, for the safe passage of the heating season, we will ensure stable pricing in the electricity market, which will guarantee the economic and balanced work of energy-generating enterprises, which is very important in terms of their financial resources, financial capacity. The quality of the repairs of the manufacturing and network equipment, and the availability of coal imports by enterprises. And all of these measures are actually under daily control. And we're confident that right now we're here before the beginning of the season in a situation where we really feel today the work of the Ministry, the whole government, the NCRECR, the Naftogazu, the generating companies and other market participants. And this season we're going to go peacefully in the forecast mode. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u5	Thank you, German Valeriovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to questions from a specific subject to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine from the MP factions and groups. People's deputies please sign up for questions. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Pipi Natalia Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u6	Give Roman to Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u7	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u8	Mr. Minister! Majority MPs, list deputies -- we're working very closely with the communities. We have reformed decentralization, now we have everything -- and decisions, and life -- happening in communities. And we understand the challenge that communities faced in the early days of the heating season. And these tariff prices, which rise for both objective and subjective reasons, can bury completely all the economic activities of societies that cannot survive. I'm not talking about ability, about development, and I'm talking about survival with these tariff prices. Please tell me, Mr. Minister, we've heard a lot in the media of politicians' beliefs that the state will support, intimidate the communities in this difficult situation. How would you please tell the ministers what steps and mechanisms are being proposed on the eve of the heating season in order to prevent communities from being destroyed against the backdrop of rising tariff prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. In fact, I was just mentioning in my speech a memo, and he's solving a lot of the questions that you're addressing. In particular, it refers to the provision of gas at a stable price, more importantly, the stability of such supplies. And in order to cover the difference in tariffs, the government budget project provides for an increase of over 11 billion dollars in local budgets. So there are actually mechanisms. Another question is how to use them. And now what I also said is, what's important is that, actually today, the heat power plants, they don't produce electricity almost, because the price of gas is large and here the state won't be that part, it's the market price of gas. So we're taking on the exact function that we're balancing an energy system that takes into account these 3,000 megawatts that don't produce at the local level, what I've already noted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u10	The word is given to the National Deputy of Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u11	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please give the floor to the national MP from our political power, Mr. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u12	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor Vassil Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a few questions. First, it's about the use of fiscal instruments in energy pricing, including the price of gas for the population. It's absolutely unacceptable that when we get 20 billion cubic metres of gas inside the country when we consume 30 billion, two thirds is the priority of our own production, you're pricing us at import parity. One. The other one. Our faction has passed bills where we offer fiscal instruments to lower the price of gas. Can you give us an answer right now when we apply the rules on cancelling, for example, the pay for using the gas drums that are needed for the population? Or the VAT so we don't charge the price for gas, so it's at least 20 percent lower. The other one. This is what applies to tariff-subsidy asymmetries in increasing housing and utility bills, we're down or we're down from the past amount of subsidies. Who will overcome this gap — population or state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. In fact, the question of today's import price or price of gas that you can see in Europe. Although that's where she fell today, we're actually saying that yesterday this price reached $2,000. And that's why we're saying that now, by giving us 7.96 gas, we are. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, but let's take the price of the market and look at the price of the population. Let's be honest, too. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it anyway. It's about the fiscal stuff you're talking about. Come on, we'd love to work out this bill with you. All right, we're ready as a ministry, we're going to join in, and we're going to work with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u15	You're done, aren't you? Please, the next National Deputy Pavlovenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u16	Thank you. Please pass the word to Oleg the Synyth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u17	Please, Oleg Blue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u18	Minister, the promises of power are worthless. Because once the memorandum is signed, the territorial communities receive gas at higher prices, and the thermal energy bills remain blocked. But the crisis is much bigger. Because the coal to be taken off the peaks of electricity charges is 800,000 at two and a half million tons. And in September, not the coldest month, its stocks fell by 8 percent. Gas is 18 billion at 23 billion. You allowed the geopolitical loss of Gazprom to stop transiting gas into Hungary. You're going through Yanukovich, who paid for cheap gas at the price of the Black Sea fleet. I understand why he's looking for a meeting with Zelenski. And I have a question. Please tell me, what are you going to do with Russia – water in Crimea, legalization of pro-Russian fighters, or a Belarusian scenario of loss of independence?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u19	I'll give you a very brief answer. I will be counting on Russia to disconnect Ukraine’s energy system from Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u20	That's it, isn't it? How would you like a little bit more time-out? You have two minutes to answer. Okay. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, the faction of Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u21	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to your colleague, Kucherenko Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u22	Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u23	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Minister, with all due respect to you, disengagement from the Russian energy system is very good. It's important that we don't go back to Belarus in 2-3 months for electricity. Last year, Gerus made a deal with Belarus’s Energy Minister. Who's gonna make the deal now? That's the first one. The other one. Please remember, with all due respect to you, both you and the authorities and Ukraine: there is no gas market and there will be no gas market. He's gone. And that's what the Europeans understand today. Instead of this market, so-called, you accept and sign memoranda. Sorry, their price is the price of toilet paper. There is no such document. There are laws of Ukraine, there is a Constitution. The absolute legal solution was the adoption of a mechanism for special duties and the calculation of self - worth. The main question is, why did you take the liberty of reselling gas at 7.42 for the Ukrainian consumer? This is the main question that stands today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. A few aspects that you've touched. First of all, a memo. The question of the memorandum is not being discussed from the legal point of view, we're discussing that this is a working mechanism that works. And what I was just saying is that to ensure that price, it's not really that easy to provide the 7.42 price that's set. Because what we saw, what happened, that some market subjects, what did they do? They were getting this money, more specifically, they were getting the gas by 7.42, and then they went and they were selling it. So we were looking for mechanisms to make this impossible. And that's why the question is that the only mechanism that was found and which, in principle, is active, and it's already working, because it's already formed, is that it's the creation of that balancing group, that's what the subjects enter into, and that's what they're doing in this group, and that's what we've tied this price to. And that's what's going to allow it, first of all, to ensure that there's no possible reselling mechanisms. And the second. Even if you imagine what someone would do, there is a proper mechanism to exclude an entity from the group as a sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u25	Thank you, German Valeriovich. Please, next question is Urban Anatoly Igorovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u26	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u27	Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u28	Mr. Minister, we're not going to be original, we're also going to mention the signing of the Memorandum not to allow any increase in tariffs to fuel this heating season. You yourself have just said that this memorandum does not have legal force. But the tension in OTG hasn't reduced this memo, and we understand that we're going back to the districts now, we're going back to the districts and we're going to talk to the leaders of OTG. They put their price on the budget for 10 dollars of gas. Now they're offered the price of 42 bracelets of gas, and this gas is not going, and the contracts are not signed. So we want to see, not us, but heads of OTG, business leaders want to see the road map, not philosophy. This is a question for you, and for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the entire government. If we don't see a clear road map, there's going to be chaos and there's going to be a collapse right now. We expect specifics from you in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. In fact, I didn't say that he didn't have legal power, I said that we wouldn't discuss his legal form. He has power. And that is certainly why it is possible to appeal to the points it contains. It's also important because otherwise it would be very difficult even to do the mechanisms that I mentioned, even the same balancing group. Actually, it's about a road map. Come on. So this is not just a matter of ministries, this is definitely a matter for discussion, we're going to talk to government members and maybe come back with some kind of proposal. I'm not ready to talk about the road map right now. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u30	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy Vladislav Mikolayovich Polak, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u31	Please pass the word to the alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u32	Boris Viktorovich Prijejsko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u33	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the question is once again about signing a memorandum. In fact, September 30 was a signed memorandum and, in fact, all the communities are waiting for a clear board, because today we have October 8 -- the beginning of the heating season in kindergartens, in schools. It's very cold. It's time to turn on the gas. The price is 42.48 bucks. It's too much. Give me a clear medium, tell me when it's going to be, or the price is going to be 16,8, which is signed in the memo. That's the first one. Or a compensator will be offered. I understand there's no road map. Please don't let them buy 48 bucks, they don't have any money. And the second short question. The municipal property now included buildings that were on the balance sheet of district councils, some of which do not have real-estate documents. Offer them a mechanism to work again at such a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. You've actually touched on a very important topic, and that's what we've seen, when, in fact, on a level there was some kind of district city, a conspiracy started between gas suppliers, and we started getting these signals. It really is. When they call each other and make a deal, let’s go and keep that price. And that's why, on the condition that even the budget went out there. On ProZorro and these businessmen came, and we said we were willing to sell 40,000, 30 times, that was different. But the key was that they all kept the same price in one place: 30 or 35 or 40. And of course, we responded immediately. Moreover, this question was immediately raised with the Antimonopoly Committee, because these are obvious signs of conspiracy. And we also communicated with law enforcement authorities about this, because it is absolutely, in a mild sense, unfair competition and dishonesty. So, of course, we're going to provide that price. The key question is, really, for everyone to hear that we don't have to deal with situations like this, if they are, they decide. We already have experience in dealing with such situations. And with regard to what you've pointed out in the buildings, let's work with the Ministry of Territory on our side.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u35	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Kopanchuk Oleni Eugeneni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u36	Thank you. Olena Copanczuk, "Serial of the People" faction. Please tell me, Minister, my question is about the emergency, October of the month, and we're talking about socio-economic risk compensation for the population who live in a 30-mile radius of nuclear stations. It's not enough that in 2016 we took the real right of one percent of the compensation for these areas, and today, in 2021, local budgets don't even get the money of that part of the government budget. I have a question: when will local budgets receive funding in 2021?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u37	We've actually been discussing this today, we're working on it. In fact, there are appropriate changes to the law regarding the so - called, atomic subsidy. And the corresponding draft of the act is legally in place, and I think we're going to be bringing it in very soon. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u38	Thank you, Herman Valeriovich. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions from a specific subject. Excuse me, let's move on to questions to members of the government from the national MPs. Please sign up for the question. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u39	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to your colleague Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u40	Red, right? Rudik, I'm sorry, Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u41	Colleagues, respectable colleagues! I wanted to ask the Minister of Energy. See, over the years of independence, natural gas production fell from 25 billion to about 20 billion cubes. At the same time, our cousin country, Kazakhstan, in the same years of independence, managed to increase its own natural gas production sevenfold, ensuring the energy independence of its country. What do you think the government, the President, the Supreme Council should do to increase our natural gas production in the near future? Should we change our approach in our dealings with private companies? Because we know that there is no European or American company in the market today that knows how to do that. Should we do so because of the prism of Crushing? Name specific steps so that we can have the next season.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. It's actually a very important topic, and we really defined it as a priority. So the key task is, of course, to ensure that the state is fully self-contained, so that we don't depend at all on any import. And there are a few aspects. Of course, you know, historically there were lots and programs, of course, "2020" in terms of increasing production, but they're not implemented. We see a whole series of measures to be taken. There's a really bad experience of foreign companies coming to Ukraine that were willing to invest in manufacturing, but then the courts started, they started having problems, and they actually left our market. So there's a whole series of measures that need to be done, including working on appropriate mechanisms under the same distribution agreements. And there's a set of really mechanisms that are going to simplify the involvement of investments in Ukraine, really in manufacturing. And from the point of view of public companies, of course, it's going to be the key to scrapping, and it's going to provide a corresponding increase, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u43	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Batenek Taras Ivanovich, instead of the national deputy to the staff. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u44	Mr. Secretary, the honourable members of the government! We understand that there is now no Prime Minister of Ukraine, and you cannot coordinate with each other on the answer to the question of how the signed memorandum will be implemented. But that's the question that's worrying right now, soon the heating season will start, the ice cream will start. In this situation, I think we should give a clear answer and a road map to our Ukrainian society. And we need to give this answer before the start of the first reading of Ukraine's State Budget and before the start of the heating season. Whose shoulders will be this huge difference in gas prices and the heat -- the state budget, the local government, the local budgets, the ordinary citizens and so on? Gather together, call the Prime Minister of Ukraine, make this position clear so that society knows clearly and the communities understand that they will be able to deal with this problem, not enter into another energy collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u45	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The signing of the memorandum ensures the continuous passage of the 2021/22 heating season. The implementation of the memorandum is the number one task for the Ukrainian government. To this end, a plan of action has already been developed and prepared to ensure the implementation of this memorandum, and it will be approved at the nearest meeting of the Ukrainian government. It's about community support. Of course, all Ukrainian communities are focused on the constant attention of the Ukrainian government. Taxes analyzed the ability and financial situation of all communities. You know, the government has a separate community subsidy with a capacity index below 0.9. There is also an additional 4 percent of the PDF and a 13.44 percent excise tax will be left. That is, local self - government is physically ready for the heating season. The state of preparation is more than 99 percent, in fact 100 percent, except for some specific situations that are under close control of the Ukrainian government. There's an interdisciplinary working group working on the preparation of housing and utilities for the heating season. So I want to assure you that the heating season will start on time and will go on in a stable way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u46	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Synth of Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u48	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u49	Questions to the Minister of Education and the Minister for Community Development. How could you allow a situation like this to happen that, with the Big Building all over the country, you've had a friendly start on the big school destruction that's happening right now in local communities? Since schools that began to be built in 2018 have more than 50 percent readiness, they do not continue to build largely because the green authorities do not spend the second year in a row. Now I want to mention the school in the village of Velika Berezovice. 10,000 people, 1,000 300 children who don't have a place to study, a community that allocates funds at the local level, but the state is totally ignoring the desire of the community and the process of school building. So the question is, how are you going to solve this situation? When will construction funds be made available, and in general, perhaps education and educational opportunities for local communities should begin?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to assure you that education is a priority of the activities of the Government of Ukraine and the state. As part of the President's Big Construction program, it's known to everyone that over a hundred schools are being built or capitalized each year. Over the past two years, this number of projects has actually been built and implemented, and communities see it, see it, and perceive it accordingly. In fact, in Ukraine, construction of some objects was started for a reasonable reason. We're building up a lot of them. It's not just the object you're talking about, three years ago, it started building back, it's 10-15-20 objects even 30 years ago. All of them will be added. With regard to your specific question about the object you are paying attention to, it is possible for the State Regional Development Fund to be implemented in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u51	The word is given to Calchenk Sergey Vitaliyovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Suško Pavlu Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u53	Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u54	Thank you. I have a question for the government. When will the government return to their children? As head of the interim commission of inquiry, I sent a report from the interim commission of inquiry to the government, where it was established that the country had completely destroyed its child protection system. Instead of gathering an urgent meeting, holding a meeting, and setting up appropriate assignments, this report was not even opened by anyone, just sent to Minsoc. As a result, closures occur all the time in places. Mass school closings, violations of school law are closed, instead of agreeing with MON. And that's another question. In Ukraine more than 40,000 children with disabilities need rehabilitation, 130 million are only 15 percent enough for their children to be rehabilitated, and the next year the same amount is planned. How can you rehabilitate your children?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u55	Let me answer your questions. Dear Paul Mikolaiovich, first of all, I will ask the Prime Minister to meet again, and we will meet with you all the time to be Minister of Education, I, Prime Minister, will discuss all the issues that have been violated by the TSC. And with regard to the rehabilitation of children with disabilities, we have now gathered the need for regions and for the near future. A draft government decision on the redistribution of expenditure has already been prepared, there will be an increase of more than 30 million dollars and an even greater number of children with disabilities will be provided with rehabilitation services this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u56	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, faction of the Political Party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u57	Please give my word to my colleague Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u58	Roman Vasilovich Kostenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, since there is no Prime Minister, I will have a question to the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Deputy Minister, look, I'm not going to ask you right now about the execution of the state defense order, the supply of arms, military technology, the execution of the military development programs. I'll have it. First. This is what military officials are calling me and saying that the Ministry of Defense is currently in charge of the assignment, including the violation of the Military Service (the rear unit). They try to appoint people who do not even have education. Probably realizing that the minister is short - lived, they want to put their men in place. Please pay attention to this. And the second. That's definitely the question. Military personnel are also on the phone. When will the payments be made for the relief work that they have been waiting for since February of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u60	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Deputy Secretary of Defense Alexander Nosov. Unfortunately, I didn't hear the beginning of your question, but I heard the last two: first, the assignment, and second, the payment. Let me start with the payments, because the assignment is a personnel issue. Let me start with the payments. First of all, about the September month cash reward. It's fully paid, 100 percent. As for the reward of participating in combat in the United Nations zone of execution, it was executed in full for August. So today we have a one-time debt, which is about 2 billion 100 million. We'll pay it in full in case we get changed to the draft law. to the budget for 2021, because in general we have a shortfall in money in the Ministry of Defence in terms of 7.1 billion dollars. To reward all military personnel, including one - time payments. Now we're going to save money on fuel and premiums to the senior management of the Ministry of Defense. As for the personnel assignments, I can't answer that question. But I do know that there is a clear order from the Defense Minister that prohibits the appointment of senior officials who do not have a higher strategic education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u61	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Lashenko Anastasia Alexiyevni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Dmitri Kisilevski, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u63	Dmitry Davidovich Kisilevski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Prime Minister of Ukraine spoke at the Kiev International Economic Forum. And there the Ukrainian producer asked the Ukrainian Prime Minister the question "when will there be a localization in Ukraine?".. What he said should be heard by all the national MPs. He said that localization was inappropriate and that Ukraine should remain, attention open to import. This is a statement by the Ukrainian Prime Minister who should be interested in the employment and development of his country’s industry, not in others. I wanted to hear the Prime Minister's comment, but he didn't come. And then the question to Alexia Mikolaiovich or Alexander Mikolaiovich may be. The railway announced a tender for the purchase of passenger trains, 31 billion dollars. In the event of their production, Ukraine will probably pay more than 5 billion taxes. There's not a word of localization in the tender. So it's predicted that a foreign producer can win. 31 billion governments will go abroad, and 5 billion Ukrainian budgets will be lost immediately. So what will the government do if a foreign company wins?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u65	Good afternoon. Thank you for asking. First of all, you know, we have a procurement procedure, we have government purchases, we have the State Procurement Act. If there are any on the legislative level of ideas, that's a slightly different question. The procedure is done according to purchases from this law. And if we're talking specifically about this project, we're not looking at projects without localization at all. You know, there's a separate intergovernmental agreement with France, there's a percentage of localization that we control and without it we won't, the project's not going to start. Similarly, in any other non-localization projects, we don't look at projects, especially big ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u67	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. What I'm saying is that until a domestic energy producer is supported, there's nothing to light us up with a price adjustment for energy. As long as we're buying coal and not supporting our own miners, none of this will happen. Joining the European electricity grid will not be as long as we buy electricity in Belarus and Russia. So, please tell me, is my budget for the 21st and 22nd years of the Ministry of Finance supported? Please tell me, have you done this work so that these amendments are regulated and supported in these two bills: in the changes and in the 22nd year budget bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u68	Thank you. In fact, I fully support your position on what we need to develop first of all our own production and our own generating powers. And it's actually really important for you to synchronize and actually feel secure from the point of view of energy supply in the state. As far as right is concerned, we're as a ministry ready to support, let's look at them. For our part, we will support them if they are really aimed at achieving those goals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u69	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, the "Golos" faction. Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u70	Ironman, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u71	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u72	Your Honor, it's very strange that there is no Prime Minister. Hopefully someone from the economic bloc will answer. Please tell us, yesterday and before that in the media, enough well - founded materials on gas shortages are available to pass the heating season. At least 3 billion of those that need to be attached to our shelters in order not only to allow the population to pass through the winter, but also to the industry, and to the budgetary institutions. I have a few questions that I want a clear answer to. First. Is the money already listed for Naftogazu to buy this gas? The other one. Are there any contracts that we're buying this from? Third. Is there a plan, if not added, to our gas transport system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. Really. Let's answer your questions. First of all, yes, there is money. And Naftogaz now has a full financial resource. Second, he has the right contracts. And the third. We have an understanding of how to diversify possible gas purchases if we feel that the quantity or volume of supply from Russia has dropped dramatically. It doesn't mean from the outside. If the transit is interrupted from Russia, then what to do with Ukraine's imports of gas from Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u74	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u75	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister now, not just one question, but a lot of questions. But if he's not here, let's probably go to the First Deputy Prime Minister. You're appealing to a memorandum that provides for certain prices for utilities, for tariffs. Please give us a clear answer: How much is Ukrainian gas worth? Because without that question, we won't be able to understand why in the memorandum you're putting 7 dollars for the population there and more for other institutions? And the second question of educating the Minister of Finance. Please give an answer, are the documents ready to correct the subsidy for the education of the city’s territorial communities, which have been joined by the villages in most of their schools and schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. The question is absolutely fair. The cost of Ukrainian gas is slightly more than 3,000 dollars, and the consumption in the balance is half of Ukrainian gas. But today we understand the prices of over 55,000 already in the markets, but Ukraine still has a difference there of over 15,000 between the market that has come together, unfortunately, in Europe today, and what we are getting today. So today we need to talk not so much about the population with which the government, by signing a memorandum, has decided on the issue, and the housing and utility sphere, but today we need to talk about the industry, which also needs to be provided, especially the chemical, processed, sugar, understandable prices, projected gas prices. So the average price that's currently being calculated for the economy, and that's going to be included in the forecast, today we understand about over $350 per thousand cubic meters. Such calculations are now under way, and all socio-economic development models for the 22nd year come out of these parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honorable National MPs. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made with a break and a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the people’s deputy to the staff. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u78	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We won't be taking up much of your time. We want our "For the Future" party to address the "Serves of the People" faction first. Just in your party chat, the head of the committee to take care of the people, the children, Mrs. Tretyakova, wrote that one less enemy (for Polakov, for Anton Polakov’s death). I'd like to ask you, the distinguished faction of the "minister of the people," to draw the conclusion from Mrs. Trinitarian's words. She is well - known for her attitude toward children, people, the country. I think that's unacceptable, whatever political opponent or man Mr. Anton Polakov is, is a dead man, an ordinary man, and also our colleague in parliament. I very much ask you, Mr. Stefanchuk, please make moral conclusions and tell us what you think you need to do. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u79	Dear colleagues. Galina Mikolayevna, you're sure you want a replica, right? Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa I think it's better if she speaks for herself. But of course, if such words were, they were unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u80	I have two observations. First remark. How does "to the mother" know what it says in the chat room of "The Servant of the People"? This time. And secondly, when people who are fighting for freedom of speech, which is guaranteed to every person here in the Constitution Hall, and think that they can put some cloth on someone's mouth, I think it's a disgrace to you. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u81	Galina Mikolayevna. Galina Mikolayevna. Turn off the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, each person’s life is of higher social value. This is guaranteed by article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And let's stop any speculation about that. And freedom of speech includes responsibility for what each of us says. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's put a dot on that. Dear colleagues, let's move on to issues. Helen Constantine, please. An offer came from two factions: a real break, 30 minutes. I'd like you to meet me in the faction manager's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. There's been a difficult conversation with faction leaders and groups, and I'd like to ask, yes, all of us to think about what we're talking about and what we're writing. And I give you my word. Is David Georgiyovich here yet? David Georgievich. The word is given to the head of the faction "Serve of the people" of David Georgiyovich Arahamiya. Please, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u83	Good morning, colleagues! I want to make a public apology to the family members and to the loved ones of our already dead colleague, as they say, of the dead, we speak only good or nothing. And I want us to have a moment of silence and great compassion, including colleagues from the "For the Future" faction and, of course, all colleagues in the Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u84	In addition, we agreed that there would be a letter from the heads of factions and groups that I would ask to consider a regulatory committee on the relevant issues regarding the removal of Mrs. Trinitarian from meetings and perhaps an initiative in further away from the head of the committee. We'll continue to look at it. After we get it, I'll see what this letter is about. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to our consideration of the matter. And I'll pass on the word to Oleni Constantineni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's finish this restless week. We continue to consider the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have already spoken from factions, and the groups have raised the issue. I now ask you to sign up for the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please, Your Honor, sign up. To remind us of this procedure, we have been assigned to the Rules for up to 9 minutes. The word is given to Oksani Savchuk, a nonfractional. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u86	Good afternoon, colleagues! You know, every deputy in this room has equal rights and equal opportunities. I want to say today from all the non-fractional deputies that have also been elected. We see injustice in relation to the non-fractional MPs represented in this Parliament. In fact, we can't bring our bills into the agenda, even though they are very socialally important. They very often reflect the social sentiments they have. They are also patriotic, identical, which actually shows where Ukraine should go, which heroes should be respected. Both the previous speakers and the previous Supreme Council offices, and the current ones are not allowing fully non-fractional MPs to submit drafts to the session room. And today, I would like these candidates who claim to be the speaker and the person who will be selected and I have a question for every candidate: are they ready to change this situation? Will they still understand that there must be a day of opposition where opposition should be allowed to submit its bills, report them, prove them to the people? Because in order for the MPs to initiate the next session, they collect 150 signatures, where there are questions of a highly important, social nature. Instead, what happened yesterday is a gross disregard for those issues that were extremely important. The majority of the "ministers of the people" just didn't come because I didn't want to push the button. I didn't want to push the buttons for the review of pension legislation, although we're all talking about the fact that this pension that we have today is impossible for people to survive. They didn't really want to show their position. What can we do? Can we just talk? Therefore, the key issue today is that non-fractional deputies should have the right to speak. And today, in representing John-Frankish, I want to say that there are also a lot of different problems in our region. And as a majority MP and others who represent their districts, I want to have the right in this sessional room to consider our bills so that they can be included in the agendas of the day and so that we can discuss them and make the right decisions. I hope that the future speaker of Parliament will do all he can to make history by making us non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Vladimir Vjatrović, European Solidarity. Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today we will have a very serious choice in a few minutes, because it depends on whether this Supreme Council of Ukraine is worthy again or whether we will return to the presidency of this Supreme Council, or whether we will be able to speak with dignity and dignity. You know that one of the candidates is Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich. Yesterday you all saw her perform, many of you discovered her to yourself and discovered her in aspects that we have long known how good and beautiful she is as an organizer, how much she knows how to talk to people, how gentle but very persistent she wants to achieve her goal. I just wanted to read a few lines from her biography. She was born in the city of Raven in 95. Ukrainian Medical Volunteer, Chief of Medical Administration and Rehabilitation of the Fighters of the Ukrainian Volunteer Army during the war in eastern Ukraine, Commander of the Medical Battalion Gospitalieri. During the active phase of the war, starting in the 14th year, she personally pulled out and saved more than two hundred wounded Ukrainian soldiers from the front, created and now manages the medical battalion Gospitalieri, which has saved over 2.5 thousand Ukrainian soldiers and civilians from the front line since creation. She's not just a national hero of Ukraine, she's a very good organizer, she's a very decent person, she's a very decent person. And frankly, I'm very proud to have her in one room with us, and there are all who represent the Ukrainian army today, who fought on the front. And, dear fellows, today I am addressing all those present in this room, especially those on the front, for those who understand what a frontal brotherhood is: support your vote, Jan Zinkevich, for the position of speaker of the Supreme Council. And frankly, I'd like people like Jan Zinkevich not only to be in the leadership of the Supreme Council, but to be in the leadership of all the committees, and in general all the senior positions in the Supreme Council. I will be truly grateful to everyone who supports Jan Zinkevich in this position, because I sincerely believe that, frankly, not because she represents "European solidarity," but because I honestly believe that she is truly worthy of the approval of each of you that she is not just a hero of Ukraine, that she is not just a very good organizer, that she is not just a worthy person, but she is worthy to be the leader of our country's higher legislative body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Jaroslav Železniak, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I personally and the entire "Golos" faction join the sympathy of our fellow colleague Anton Polakov. Today we have an unusual vote, today we choose candidates for a second weighty position in the state. No, it's not the head of the President's Office, it's still under the Constitution, under the laws of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council. This building that we're going to meet and gather in, and hopefully we're going to get together, has a long history. Many of you have seen, the press is less that behind this wall are portraits of all the heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some of them have come into history with good intentions and good results, some have disgraced themselves and Ukraine by their actions, their actions, and, above all, their violation of the Rules. Hence, today’s vote is extremely important. We have three candidates. I will vote in person for the candidates who represent the opposition forces who claim this position. Regardless of who will be elected, he will cease to be a representative of one political force, he will become the head of parliament, representing the interests of all 424 Ukrainian national deputies who are to be here at the conclusion of the ninth call. I want wisdom to the person who takes this high chair, and I want the less in this room to sound the fair word "usurpation," and the more it sounds like the word "subjectity." And I urge the future head of Parliament, regardless of who he was, to give up those steps that are now so boldly proposed by another branch of power, to limit our constitutional rights to legislative initiative, to limit the right to discuss legislative changes, and sometimes to limit interventions. Dear colleagues, especially the candidates for this post, you now have a historic chance to enter history. And whoever takes this chair gets a portrait from the Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I very much wish that when you leave this position as you go through your portrait, you will be remembered only well. Ukrainians, first of all, not the gains that could lead to the usurpation of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you won't believe this, but we're done here. Let's move on to the voting procedure. Please prepare for the vote. So we have three candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is National Deputy of Ukraine Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, National Deputy of Ukraine Hončarenko Alexiyyovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Accordingly, we have two candidates, Železniak and Lerus, who have withdrawn their candidates for election. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules, therefore, it is proposed to hold a rating vote and to put candidates to the vote in the order in which they are put to the vote. Thus, the result of the rating vote for the final decision will be a candidature that will receive the highest number of votes of support. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the rating procedure. The rating vote is submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please vote. [[11:49:06]] For 257 Thank you. By factions, please show me. Thank you. The rating vote is run by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hončarenko Alexiyovich. Please vote. [[11:49:36]] For-44 By factions, please show me. Thank you. The rating vote is run by National Deputy Zinkevich Jana Vadimivna. Please vote. [[11:50:04]] For-146 By factions, please show me, of course. Thus, according to the results of the rating vote, the largest number of votes was won by the candidate of the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich – 257. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, this is not the final decision. It's not final yet, it's ratings. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 74, 75, 79 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to elect the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s National Deputy Stefan Ruslan Aleksyyyyovich as the First Deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:51:19]] For 261 Decision taken. Please show by factions. [[Applause]] Congratulations, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please inform the Supreme Council of the outcome of our decision and to sign it to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I ask the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take his place, Ruslan Alexiyovich. And remember, we live in a parliamentary-presidential republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u92	Fellow dignitaries, thank you so much for your high trust. I'll try my best to justify it. Thank you all very much, thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed during our faction meeting that in accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, a proposal was made to change today's order of work of the Supreme Council. That is, working today without a break at 12-12:30 and the "Victane" issue, and until the end of the project, Decision No. 6052. After consideration of question 6052, declare a parliamentary inquiry and close the plenary session. I have to put this to a vote. Dear colleagues, please support this proposal and vote. [[11:53:20]] For 268. Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. That's why we keep working. I'm going to ask you one more minute to get me to translate all the papers. Dear colleagues, I have here a letter to me, signed by all the heads of factions and groups, that we should consider Bill 5807 today: a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the identification and reporting of the final beneficiary and the structure of the property of the legal person. Dear colleagues, in order to include this issue in the agenda, we must vote on 226 votes. Are you ready to vote in favour of this issue of inclusion in the agenda? Please support and vote. Please vote. [[11:54:35]] For 340. Decision taken. Next, I suggest we consider this issue in a simplified way. This decision requires 150 votes. Ready to vote? Without discussion, are we ready to vote? Well, the faction "ES" isn't ready. Then let's vote 150 for the reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:55:17]] For 289 I invite the rapporteur, Ukrainian national deputy Francis Igor Pavlovich. Please, Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Head. Congratulations on your election! You know, I thought I couldn't wait for that anymore. Because every day the question was passed on, and the lines under the C.N.A.P. and the notaries about reporting on the final beneficiary: in the morning, at five o'clock, people took 250 in a row. Guys, I won't talk much. Each of you came hundreds of sms and messages from our citizens about the transfer of this X time that will become effective. So I'm sure I'm with my colleagues during this time. For nine months, we are suspending the validity of this law and these standards regarding the introduction of information on KGB into the register, but in the meantime we need to write those rules that will not require introduction to a certain category of legal persons. It's right, it's geos, it's charities, it's housing-building cooperatives, it's garden cooperatives, it's physical. These are legal persons where "physics" are final beneficiaries if such information is recorded in the register. I am confident that we will write together correctly so that we do not in any way violate our obligations to European partners. And it's the right thing to do. Thank you. Please support this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u94	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Andriyovich Nataluh. Please, Dmitri Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, I invite you to support everything I hear from Igor Pavlovich, and to relieve business of the risk of paying between 17,000 and 50,000 dollars for a misappropriation fine. So I want to point out the following. The Committee on Economic Development at its October 6th meeting, overseeing part five of article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed its conclusion from September 22, 2021 to this draft law submitted by the People's Deputies of Fries. And as a result of the discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the members of the Committee decided to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the identification and reporting of the final beneficiary and the structure of the property of the legal person (registration number 5807) to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend that the results of the first reading should be accepted as a basis and, in general, as a technical legal process, by making the law available in such an editorial. Colleagues, pay attention! Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. In section X, paragraph 4, of the Act on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, Section X, paragraph 4, replace the words “three months” with the words “one year”. Ending and transitional positions. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. Thank you. Please support and continue for nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Nesterenko, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u97	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Rubljev Vejacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u98	Veacheslav Rubleov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, first of all I want to tell you that this law is really what our citizens are waiting for in places that are huge queues in the CNAP, and today we have two speakers -- both Igor Pavlovich Fries and Nataluha, and I'll tell you honestly, let's not postpone this process, but put it to the vote. And I ask you to shorten the speeches of our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u100	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Stefanishini, the faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u101	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Please pass the word to my colleague from the "Justice" of Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u102	Tell Julia Leonidni Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u103	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! Klimenko, "Justice." I want to say that, of course, we support this law on the basis and in general, because we have to postpone this chaos, which is now happening in the notary and in the registration service. But I want to point out that you and I are adopting laws with a large number that cannot be implemented. This law was passed. Tell me, please, what we've been counting on and how to organize a beneficiary registration job, if in three months' time the government, I don't know, and all the relevant services haven't been able to organize a job for entrepreneurs so that they can register peacefully without getting up at 5:00 a.m. without paying bribes, sorry, because right now in order to register the official payment of 3,000 dollars, it's still going to have to be something like this and so on. So please, colleagues, and I urge the following bills, let's do, more faithfully, the executive control of executive power to do this and what we accept, it was implemented in a timely, qualitative and without the burden of our citizens and our entrepreneurs. Because you and I have actually created a complete collapse in the system when people and businesses don't work, but they do what they do to register a natural person, for example, who owns 100 percent of society with limited responsibility. Tell me, is there an end to this nightmare? So I urge and let's think ahead, and control executive power, otherwise we'll pass laws that no one ever needs and will never implement, but create extra pressure on business. Thank you. We are on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u104	Thank you. May I have the floor of Ukrainian national deputy, Eugene Nina Petrovna, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u105	Honorable Ukrainians and colleagues who really care about this are the cynicism that Law 361 was adopted in December 2019. It took effect on April 28, 2020. And it was only in the seventh month of 2021 that these sub-legal instruments, which were approved by the form and content of the ownership structure to be submitted by the owners, were issued. For more than a year, the executive authorities needed it. And within three months, everyone concerned with this norm had to do it — cynicism. But I am addressing the authors of this amendment. Have you even analyzed who this will affect? As of 01.07.2001, the number of such subjects was 1 million 400,000. Did you realize what you were doing, or would all the adjustments be made? Some authors hide from this. But you had to act as initiators, not people who forced you to make urgent changes and postpone at least formally, and then think essentially that you needed to change that standard. So, of course, we also have to vote urgently for the signing of this bill, but everyone has to know that this is how fast anti-reforms are done. Anti-reforms, not reforms. So take your time, think, and make informed decisions. Of course, we will support this bill on the basis and in general with timely signature. You have to look the truth in the eye for once.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u106	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Dubil Valeriy Alexanderovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u107	Honorable colleagues, a year and a half to enforce the law, a year and a half. And yet, in fact, the chaos that was predicted during the so-called "crazy printer" when decisions were adopted without real discussion. You're the result of a new vote. We address the newly elected Head of the Supreme Council. We didn't hear the word "support and vote" for the first time. God forbid, let every faction, every deputy, be determined on this matter. Secondly, let's give each real amendment a chance to be discussed. As a result, the Fatherland faction will support the vote. But for us it is fundamental that every bill has a real effect then in life, so that it is financially justified, so that it can then be carried out through the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the relevant services of this law, we should be able to talk about it in the hall. So I think it's going to be another science to look at the bill. And in this case, the "Paternity" faction will no doubt support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u108	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Please, Mother Grigory Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to welcome Lawyer's Day, because this bill has a direct bearing on this holiday. I want to testify, after all, that not all laws were adopted for the best in the area. This is a direct example, but we don't decide this law about whether they're going to be held accountable and what to do with the law enforcement authorities, the tax police, which decisions to make, because this law has entered into force today, and who hasn't given information about the final beneficiary should be called to account. What should we do with the legal side? What nonsensus, a collapse, will be created in the work of law enforcement agencies? In my opinion, we will support this bill, but this whole bill does not solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. Anybody else? Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u111	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Honorable colleagues, according to Igor Fries, our colleague, who had failed the bill for nine months, did not accept it, and people stood in line for a pandemic with documents. A woman gives birth in nine months, and we can't give birth to a bill. We demand that this bill be signed immediately, that it be put into operation so that it can work and enable it to be dismantled today and that everything works immediately. And we're also asking you to draft a bill and work 6064, which has been prepared by our country specialists to ban the disconnection of water, gas and heat, entirely from the energy supply of the population, where debt goes, 70 billion dollars. Who will also be responsible for the fact that people today are starving, freezing, dying when there is a fight in the room for the warm chairs? When will this end in this room? We need to work for the people, not for the political chair here in this room to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Please take your seats, let's move on to the decision-making process. The committee's decision is to take it as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals that have been made. In a committee that has been bugged and the necessary technical and legal regulations. So I put it as a foundation first, if it's supported, then as a whole, as a committee. Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the identification and reporting of the final beneficial owner and the structure of the property of the legal person (project registration number 5807). We vote first on the basis. Please vote. [[12:08:50]] For 345. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I can put it on. I am drafting a law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the identification and reporting of the final beneficiary and the structure of the property of the legal person (project registration number 5807). I'm proposing to the committee as a whole as a committee editor and as a matter of technical law. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:09:32]] For 342 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. I understand that. Please, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put this bill to the table and vote on the matter of assigning the Head of the Supreme Council to sign this bill without delay and to send it to the President for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u114	Thank you. Then I make this offer to Igor Pavlovitch. Please vote. [[12:10:24]] For 341 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, procedure, please. I'll have a copy of the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u115	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Ludmila Buymeister, 223 Kyiv District We've just adopted a very important bill that all entrepreneurs in the state have been waiting for, absolutely everyone. But now I want to call my colleagues by the faction, let's stop creating problems and then solve them in a nutshell. Let us, however, concentrate on normal professional and professional work and adopt the laws that the Ukrainians really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u116	Thank you. But it wasn't exactly the procedure. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the next decision that you are invited to consider. This is the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on priority issues of integration of Ukraine into the EU (project registration number 6132). We've talked about the need for a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. Please vote. [[12:11:54]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this issue requires ad hoc voting on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. We also need 226 votes. Please vote. [[12:12:22]] For 323 Decision taken. And I'd like to take this up on a simplified procedure. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. Please vote. [[12:12:45]] For 274 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. I invite the rapporteur, head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u117	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Our country's Euro-Integration Choice, it's not just defined in our Constitution, it's defined and sanctified by the events of the Dignity Revolution, it's what really unites Ukrainians. And I am convinced that this is what unites us as people who want to live in a democratic, secure, civilized, prosperous European state. This is evidenced by our citizens today showing great support for Ukraine’s membership in the European Union. And in fact, this statement that we're proposing with the sponsors today is signed by virtually everyone, almost all parliamentary parties. And this is very important because our political consensus and the political consensus of society can help us achieve a common goal. And we have to put all of our contradictions in parentheses at the time of implementation of the Euro-integration course. And the principle is that we bring our unity to our foreign partners. But at the same time, we have to understand with you that in order to make this position about European integration, we have to do our homework perfectly, and we have to convince the world that we are not really ready here to destroy democracy, not to let parliamentaryism be destroyed, and we really want to build a European state. And we have to give up the superiority and haughtiness and insolence in our international politics in order to have respect and support for our partners. So I hope that now that we have voted together in favour of this statement, we will change our tone and start working really hard to implement the Agreement on Association and the Euro-Integration Agenda. In unity, our strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u118	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Oh, from the committee. So I'm giving Ivanni Orestovna, she's also from the committee, four minutes to present the committee's decision. Two minutes, if you'll excuse me, to present the committee's decision. Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u119	Colleagues, right now, I'm addressing this as the head of the committee of profile that was considering this decision, which initiated this decision and which is offering to support it. Because the 23rd summit of Ukraine, the EU, will be held in Kiev on October 12th, 21st, and we expect the European aspirations and European choice of Ukraine to be recognised, and we expect an assessment of the achievement of the objectives of the Association Agreement to be recorded. and the desire for a joint assessment of the fulfilment of the objectives of the Treaty is marked, and will be further supported by the European Union of Sovereignty and the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the call for the Russian Federation to stop aggression, and to continue, and to strengthen the European Union's policies of personal and sectoral sanctions, and many, many other things. In this statement, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will call on the European Parliament and the member states of the European Union to recognise the prospect of Ukraine's membership in the European Union in accordance with Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union; to accelerate and extend the scope of the cancellation of import duties in trade; to deepen cooperation in the energy field; to increase investment and technological cooperation between Ukraine and the EU; to expand cooperation in all areas covered by the Association Agreement. We will also stress the need to launch a special dialogue between Ukraine and the EU on security and defence issues, as this is a fundamental issue for us. As a committee, on October 7th we considered this draft statement and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a decision on the basis and in general with technical and legal rights of an editorial nature. Please be supportive. And I thank the colleagues from our committee, the members of the committee, and the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for joining in initiating this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u120	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this? Please sign up: two in, two in. There are factions that want to say, this is the right of the factions to be holy. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Wintonak. Please. "Serve of the people" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u121	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Mary Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u122	Mesenci Maria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, it is wonderful that the Ukrainian Parliament, by the constitutional majority of the day before the summit of Ukraine – the EU, which will take place on October 12 – is a very responsible day for us, where we report not only on our work but also on the wonderful prospects of European integration for every Ukrainian and Ukrainian country every day. This, of course, and the open-air agreement, the so-called airline failure, which will lower passenger transport prices, will simplify the pursuit of justice when the flight does not take place, or cancels, and we will finally reach common safety standards. Of course, it's also a digital car that is estimated by many public associations to give a boost, i.e. an increase in Ukrainian GDP by 7-14 percent, is the signing of contracts in online regimes, on which a beautiful Digitalization Committee and also a Euro-Integration Committee are working. This is the opening of the contract signing market for both the Far East and the largest market for goods and services for 508 million EU consumers. Of course, we are also talking about the commitments we have already made, the development of inland water transport, which this hall also voted very hard but progressively last year. And we're also talking about the laws that will potentially vote in the extra Euro integration session that relate to the safety of children's food, the small Ukrainians that have not yet been born, but will be fed with normal quality baby food. These are, of course, the laws that apply to our security, the laws of communication. Laws that the Euro-Integration Committee does every day. And, colleagues, I urge you to have all the committees cooperate as well as on this file. Ukraine integrates with every Ukrainian every day. Hooray!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u124	Hooray. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u125	Thank you. Please give the word to Peter Alexiovich Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u126	The word is given to Peter Alexiovich Dustyenko. Yes, please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u127	Thank you, distinguished national deputies, distinguished colleagues. There are things that accurately unite Ukrainian society. If a third of Ukraine was responsible for integration into the European Union in the 14th year, today the vast majority of the Ukrainian people for European integration. I am proud that we have succeeded, our team, in making changes to the Constitution, where integration into the EU and NATO is compulsory for all branches of government. And I want to emphasize that the breakthroughs in our integration were at the summit. It was both the agreement, and the signing of the Association Agreement and the deeper and inclusive free trade zone, and sectoral cooperation, and the visa-freeness, which at that time seemed absolutely unbelievable. And so far, it is vital that we pay great attention to this summit. It's a shame that the government doesn't care about the whole Supreme Council's opinion about the wishes of the results that we were about to achieve at the summit. And this is going to be a joint response to North Stream 2. This must be an increase in sanctions against the Russian Federation. These must be joint and concerted actions against the Kremlin’s winter rematch, which the Kremlin is now counting on. And my further request, as a sign that this is the position of the entire Supreme Council, that Ukraine is united to achieve these goals, is precisely the head of the Committee of European Integration, John Klimpush, one of the authors of this decision, should be included in the delegation for the summit. And Ukraine's success at the October 12th summit. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u128	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian People's Deputy of the City of Jury Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u129	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask that you pass the word to the Ukrainian national deputy from our faction "The Opposition Platform – For Life" by Coltunovich Alexandro Sergiyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u130	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It's not really what they're talking about. And the essence of the summit of Ukraine-EU, as a member of the Economic Committee, I want to say that in canceling the moratorium on the export of roundwood, this is what we are required of. We are a raw platform, we are a raw asset, not a full-fledged trading and economic partner. Who's to doubt, the 4197-D bill worked by the committee, you can see it. Canceling the moratorium on roundwood exports. This time. One second. When we talk about viewing, what should we look at? We have to look at the conditions of discrimination and these discriminatory quotas for agricultural exports to the EU. We need to look at the asymmetric conditions that are operating today within the inclusive free trade area. Because that's what this is all about. I always explain numbers. If, in the 11th year, the export of goods to the EU was $18 billion, and it was exactly the same last year as 18 years, and it didn't even increase, it's in monetary terms, and in natural terms it just declined. That's why it's all not working, you know? We're promised a thousand euros' salary, and we're being taken away, the law requires the export of roundwood. The next moment. If we have such a favorable Association Agreement, why do we have a negative balance on external trade with the EU? Minus $5 billion. That's who's comfortable with this deal and this free trade area, not us. So I insist, our faction insists that we as a state and government make proposals that make us, not a raw income, but a highly technologically worthy partner. Because today we have no free movement of goods, no services, no capital, no labor. We call for a vote against such a low intellectual content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u132	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u133	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague by the faction of John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u134	Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u135	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Our faction has spoken and systematically advocates the implementation of the strategic course for Ukraine's full membership in the European Union and in accordance with European integration. We believe that the implementation of this priority is to strengthen and ensure Ukrainian statehood and Ukrainian independence. But in order for this strategy to be implemented, we are here with you, in this sessional room, we must be really European Parliament by spirit and substance. And adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union law must be a priority for the work of the Supreme Council. Until then, as long as the Ukrainian Parliament adopts such bills as 5600, which kill the Ukrainian business and the Ukrainian enterprise against which the European Business Association stands, there will be no European integration until then. Until the opposition in the Ukrainian Parliament has no control over what we are fighting for, and I will not have the Opposition Act, and the Supreme Council Rules will not return those chapters that were proposed and voted by the Fatherland and then Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, when the key committees of Parliament have been in the hands of the opposition, until then there will never be any European integration. I would like to point out, colleagues, that we must reform Parliament, and there must be a plan of Pete Cox, the former President of the European Parliament, who has been drawn up with us, with the Ukrainian Parliament for Parliament reform. And most of all. As long as Ukrainian courts decide not by law but by telephone law, do not expect any real European integration. Yes, we are voting for this bill today, but we need to change inside, and this is our task with you, the Honourable Supreme Council. We must reform parliament, and the rights of opposition must be secured, and the Ukrainian courts must be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u136	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, ahead of this country-wide summit of Ukraine – the EU – we need to show our MEPs a clear position, a clear position of the Ukrainian Parliament on the irreversibility of the European choice of our state, a clear position of the Ukrainian Parliament on the goal of Euro-integration processes in our country. It is by this decree that we, the Ukrainian Parliament, affirm Ukraine's strategic course for full, full membership in the European Union. We also stress the need to start a special dialogue between Ukraine and the European Union on security and defence, which should be a step towards bringing peace and stability to our country and then to Europe as a whole. I urge you, colleagues, to support this decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u138	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. There are no more who wish to speak. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's application for priority issues of integration of Ukraine into the EU (project registration number 6132). Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:30:10]] For 304 Decision taken. Congratulations, dear colleagues. A decision is taken in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Out of procedure, please, Jonushas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, we have time to consider the election of the first vice-scipeer of the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u140	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov also came from the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u141	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, during the chairman's meeting, in his office, there was an agreement that this issue is not being considered today, but that we will immediately go into the budget, because it really takes time. Now, just so you know, at least an hour and a half, we're going to have a discussion about the first Vice-Spyer, because there's a clear procedure under the Rules, and then there's going to be a pretty big time budget. So I have a proposal to move on to the budget now, and the staff issue. Again, listen, what are you talking about chairs and chairs? Let's take a closer look at budget issues, where we need to support subsidies, support people's social protection, and support the army. So the proposal is not to deal with the staffing issue right now, but to move on to the budget immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u142	Thank you. Just how much. David Georgievich. And he'll explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u143	By procedure, yes. Thank you. I propose, given that, indeed, we confirm that the budget is a very important document and there, indeed, the changes that many citizens of Ukraine are looking forward to now, I suggest we move on to the human resources issue and then work on the budget. We are ready to work to the end today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u144	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to say that I am in solidarity with what Mr. Gerasimov said. Because actually in terms of budget, there's 12 billion dollars extra for subsidies and 1 billion for wages for miners. What you want to put a hater of freedom of speech in Ukraine and the media independent of the first Vice-Spyer, you'll still be able to put it there, don't worry. I propose that we first look at budget issues and deal with issues: (a) with subsidies; (b) with debt on wages with miners. Yes, there are other derivatives. I have 178 amendments, and I can tell you what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u146	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u147	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, for this we have gathered the heads of factions, where we have determined order, this order is confirmed by the vote in the session room, so the budget issue. Our faction even went to some concessions to actually get the citizens of Ukraine a subsidy, in order to make immediate payments to miners. Therefore, the request is not delayed and the question of the budget begins to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u148	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak and me after that. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, we really won't make it. We're going to have a procedure for selecting our first deputy for about an hour. Judging by the potential in the budget room, it could take hours. So let's get to the process more carefully. I think that the chair of the first deputy, any candidate who gets the required number of votes, can take place next week. And now, if the budget issue is so urgent, judging by what we agreed to at the meeting, you have, Ruslan Alexiyovich, that's exactly what it sounded like, let's move on to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I can then ask for five minutes of factions and groups to come here for the presidency to talk for a minute. Dear colleagues, thank you very much. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we agreed this way, and I thank all the factions and groups for accepting this. There is such an offer. We voted with you on the question that we should have completed the bill, which was 6052, canceling the break from 12 to 12:30. And since we've canceled it, we can make the right decision. There's an offer like that. This was agreed upon by all the heads of factions and groups. There's this proposal: we're going to go to 6052 (this is a really important project, we have to vote) and then we're going to vote on the personnel question about the first deputy, and then we're going to go to the questions, vote and read, and then we're going to close today's plenary session. Is such an offer accepted? Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on this proposal, which was accepted here by all the leaders of factions and groups. Please vote. [[12:40:55]] For 262 Decision taken. Therefore, my fellow Members, we are now entering into the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on the implementation of social measures and infrastructure projects (second reading). This is Bill No. 6052. I invite the representative of the committee, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valentin Oblivion, and I would like to ask who will insist on their amendments. Do you have a list of amendments, or will we take turns? All right, let's go. Thank you. So, 6th, Nagorniak. Don't insist. Seven o'clock, Sowsun. 4th, it's included in the editor's office. Please, Sosun, 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u151	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is a major change to the budget for 2021, which would better respond to the biggest challenges and threats that we now face. Unfortunately, in this budget, we see the priorities of power, we see the money going back on the road -- 15 billion -- we see the money being handed back to the sociocona. But we don't see any response to the challenges that we've been talking about, including today, in the hall. What's my story? My amendment is very simple: Add to the title of this bill the issue of crisis management, which is now awaiting us in connection with the setting of the heating season. We have heard from the Minister of Energy today about the dangers we face. But unfortunately, this draft budget that we are now proposing is in no way responding to these challenges. Why these priorities are in power, I don't understand, but I really want all the MPs to think about how we're going to go through the heating season, and I want them to support my revisions -- and this one, and the next one, which will apply. Please put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u152	Another Romanovna, you will insist on all your amendments, I understand? Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 7 of the Sowsun People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:28]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 9. Another Romanovna Sosun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u153	Colleagues, I will continue this discussion. Look, what's going on here? I want to say again: how are 15 billion on the road now going to solve the problem of Ukrainian tariffs; how are now 4 billion sociocones going to help Ukrainian hospitals survive the new movement of COVID. Why do we do things that we don't understand? Why are such priorities now, while pressing problems are not resolved? Look at what the O.T.A.G. is saying right now, they're panicking, they don't understand how they're going through the hot season. We heard today from the Energy Minister about the signed memorandum. But, friends, the memorandum does not provide money, the memorandum does not solve the problem of how schools, gardens, and hospitals in our cities, villages, and villages will be burned. Why we're not doing this right now is incomprehensible to me. Guys, there's gonna be trouble, and now we're pretending that we're just gonna solve it by driving on nice roads. I'm asking you to support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u154	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 9 of National Deputy Sowsun Inna Romanovna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:58]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Next up, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Black. Don't insist. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, we've arranged two minutes for a performance. Ah, you Koltunovich, I'm sorry, just the first Black stood. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, 12th Amendment. And Royal, 13th. Royal, 13th will be first, Coltunovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u155	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. See, in two words, why 178 amendments were made, because the document and the tables are quite specific. If you're making changes, for example, on the distribution of the 15 billion dollars that you're planning to steal through the road fund and through the Ukrautodora, we've offered to distribute them between: the deficit of the Pension Fund, the upswing there, the overcoming of the debt to miners and so on and so forth. So this, in principle, went as separate lines and went as separate amendments. In principle, the main purpose of the amendments is to raise the minimum fixed income, the minimum cost of living for the disabled who have lost. persons who have lost their jobs, minimum wages and a number of other things, of course, subsidies. So from this point of view, it's this whole list of numbers, it's related to income, it's related to minimum income. And the amendment applies directly to changes to parts.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u156	You insist on voting for this amendment, don't you, Alexander Sergiyovich? Yeah, okay. Then let me give you two more minutes, and we'll take your revisions off. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, so that you can complete your opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u157	I was just trying to explain why it was broken down into so many. Because the specification in Excel is just going along the lines. So let's keep going. It's about raising minimum fixed income. "The Opposition Platform for Life," when she went to the polls, she just offered to level the living minimum, the minimum pension with the minimum wage. That's where it's gonna be for today. Since December 1st, it's going to be 6,000 500 bucks. This is an extremely important thing, since the minimum fixed threshold allows for both retirement and all other payments that are linked to children, to persons with disabilities, and so on. So from this point of view, I want to point out that it would be important to support exactly the kind of correction that will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u158	There's still time. Please speak. Alexander Sergiyovich, there is still time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u159	I understand. Sometimes colleagues get in the way. Thank you. So from this point of view, I would like to point out that it is by raising the minimum threshold of the minimum wage, the minimum pension, the minimum wage, and in the future that these amendments are related to this. This is one moment. The other one. Overcoming debt on payment of wages to miners. This is an extremely important event. Our faction supports this initiative. But we have a lot. Even more to you, a great request to stop this debt. Because we have to periodically (once a half year, or once every few months) put out this debt of one billion dollars or more. This is the second moment. As far as subsidies are concerned. This year’s subsidies were estimated at 36 billion dollars. Now we're giving an extra 12 billion dollars. This is definitely a low figure. We have to understand that in the next budget period we have to increase it by as much as at least. So these proposals too, they found a place in these amendments. Well, last of all, it's the most important thing. In Thessalom district [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. For example. A living example. Yesterday. In Thessalom district, the capital is a typical grocery store. People turn to a child with disabilities to buy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u160	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, we agreed. Okay, one more minute, because we agreed on three minutes. But let's get you started. But you're taking the rest of the line off, right? Thank you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u161	I want to share this example with a mother who has a disabled child. That they're going to the store, giving 5 bucks, asking to buy another half of the candy. Because this low threshold they get is extremely low, it doesn't give them the ability not to provide fully, but even basic needs to be closed even in food. So the suggestion is to raise this subsistence minimum and minimum wage, and the minimum pension for people to close this base, the minimum base that allows them to survive on a basic basis, is not about living on a decent basis. So I'm asking you to consider at least some adjustments so that we have a completely different social base in the 22nd year budget, a base that will overcome the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u162	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Natalia Yuriovna, we've agreed for two minutes, and you're doing all the editing. Please, Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the honourable present, first of all, our team demands today, is the raising of pensions for the people. And, unfortunately, this is a disgrace to this Parliament when yesterday's next session and the theme of the session was this review of pensions, the indexation of pensions, the return of pensions to the black people, the military pensioners, the indexation of pensions for all pensioners in our country, the faction of "Serve the People" did not come to this meeting in disgrace. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires that part of the money that is in the budget today be directed towards raising, indexing pensions for all 11 million pensioners in the country. And there's money for that. The second question is debt to miners. It's a shame when our miner heroes have been forced to expect you to make decisions for months. And we thank our colleagues, we thank Volodymyr Moroz, Sergey Danube and other representatives who are constantly in contact with mining teams, today have been able to include in this bill the repayment of wages to miners. And we certainly support that. But there is a third, a major issue that needs to be addressed. Today, money, not subsidies, is not enough. And we demand that people be given economically sound tariffs to lower tariffs both for the utilities and for industrial enterprises, yes, of course for every Ukrainian family. These are the red lines that have to be resolved in this Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u164	Thank you. National Deputy Nagorniak. 14th Amendment. Then you're 33rd, 375th, but this is the order. Please, Nagorniak, 14th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u165	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On September 30th, a memorandum was signed between the government, NAC Naftogaz and the City Association on compensation for gas prices. And it's this amendment that settles this issue. So please support, vote. This amendment was agreed with NAC Naftogaz, and the money just compensates NAC Naftogaz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u166	Are you insisting on putting this amendment to the vote? So I'm betting on the vote, 14 amendments. The committee's position is brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u167	Thank you. The amendment was not supported by the committee because it did not foresee a resource component. So it's not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 14th amendment of the People's Deputy of Nagorniak. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote [[12:53:40]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Next 15 amendments. Susun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, this is very similar to the previous colleague of Nagorniak, which is what it is. It was very strange for me to hear an explanation from a representative of the Committee on Budgets that there was an unforeseeable resource in order to ensure this amendment. Because it's about finding money to compensate for the difference in tariffs for the heat of our cities, villages and villages. Guys, this is exactly what this is about. I want to remind you once again that you were talking today about the memorandum you signed with the Association of Cities. But the memo has to have consequences. This should result from changes in the budget. There is no other way now to solve the problem of heat tariffs for our cities and villages except to allocate money for this. And actually what this amendment is proposing is part of the tax, part of the rent to be sent directly to the cities, into the villages to solve this problem. I don't understand why they're saying now that there's no money, if there's no money, it's about where to get the money to solve the tariff crisis that's coming on us. I'm asking very, very much for everyone to think again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u170	Thank you. I'm betting on the 15th amendment of National Deputy Sowsun Inna Romanovna. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:21]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 16, Timoshenko, Cimbaluk, Krulko. Ivan Ivanovich, we agreed, three minutes. Cool, three minutes, we made a deal. Please, Ivan Ivanovich, 16th Amendment. But we agreed on three minutes, and you're making an adjustment. Please, Ivanovich Krulko. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u171	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have tabled a huge number of amendments to this bill. And all of these amendments are about one thing. First. Solve the issue with sufficient funding for subsidies for people. The 12 billion that are budgeted at our request is, but that's not enough. The second question. Covering the difference in tariffs for heat utility. What we're now entering is now being forced by city mayors to sign contracts and buy 35 gas, and now 40 dollars per cube. Where's all this going? That's why we demand that the difference in tariffs before the heating season be resolved. And when we adopted this bill in the first reading, we warned that these issues should be settled for the second reading. Unfortunately, the Fatherland amendments were not accepted and were not included in this draft budget. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this bill in the second reading, although we believe that the solution to the issue of the wages of miners is an extremely important issue to settle. And it is not possible to allow a situation where Ukrainian miners do not pay their wages for months. We also think that we need to solve the issue of education subsidies, especially for cities where a huge number of villages have been added after the administration reform. There's not enough money for an education grant. How could it be that, three months before the end of this year, we leave essentially Ukrainian teachers without their wages, and they don't understand how they're going to end the year? Moreover, to our conviction, the surplus of the budget, which was 39.4 billion dollars, could be distributed much more effectively. And when we face the problem again today that there will be no subsidies, that Ukrainian cities today will go into debt and will not be able to pay the cost of this insanely expensive gas, and the sound figure of 13.5 dollars per cube is completely unrealized in practice, that's all that's unacceptable to Fatherland. We as the Fatherland faction are still turning to the "Serial of the People" faction, to a large extent, let's, by adopting budget laws, first of all, solve the problems of people, the problems of education, the medical profession, solve the problems of today's local self-government, and most importantly, allow people to go through the winter normally and safely into the hot season. This bill, unfortunately, cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u172	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich, for your position. Next amendment 17. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u173	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the factions of Parliament for supporting our proposal, not looking at a human resource now, but finally looking at what concerns people. The other one. Our faction has registered Bill 6006, where we have clearly identified and balancedly proposed solutions to the serious budget problems for 2021. Mr. Head, I ask you to consider it. And the third. My amendment relates to the support of the country under the pandemic when the country loses thousands of people every three days and 16,000 get sick every day. We demand that the funds that have come from the International Monetary Fund, part of them, be directed to the protection of doctors, to the protection of the sick, to the promotion of wages for those who work directly with the lame. And stop the practice of signatures not secured by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u174	I am betting on the vote of 17 amendments to the National Deputies of Dusty and Paulie. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:10]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please. Amendment number 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u175	I address all Ukrainians. We are currently discussing changes to the State Budget by the end of this year for 2021. So the government says they have an extra revenue of 39.4 billion dollars. These are actually inflationary revenues, which will be much higher by the end of the year, but somehow the profile committee didn't calculate inflationary revenues. It's not gains, it's not economic growth -- it's what's called money coming from inflation processes in Ukraine. I'm very surprised, and I'd like to hear a representative of the committee right now why are the 17th and 18 amendments rejected? Because, in our view, this means that IMF assistance of 2.7 billion will be spent in a way that is hidden from society without reforming expenditures through the State Budget for 2021. Considering that it is now the most critical months or days even.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u176	I'm betting on the vote of 18 amendments to the national MP of the South. And please, the position of the committee, the 18th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u177	Thank you. The amendments were not supported by the committee, since, according to an explanation including the Ministry of Finance, it is noted that, in its essence, the IMF methodology would reflect such costs in long-term external borrowing and would not support channelling these funds into additional public budget expenditure, as this would lead to an increase in its deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I place an amendment to the 18th National MP of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. Start the system. [[13:02:39]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 19, Hotcharyenko. Is he insisting? Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u179	Dear friends, I would like to remind all of us that today, by adopting this bill, it is certainly an important rule to add money to subsidies. But I'd like to remind my colleagues that a year ago, we said there wasn't enough money. We made our proposals, our faction, we said how much money there was to be for the subsidies, and no one listened, no one heard. And now we have to add in the last minute. And I'm pointing out that we have a very difficult tariff situation right now. And the price of gas is what we see in Europe. We're told again that we're good, we're ready for everything. That's not to say that again in two or three months they're going to put ashes on their heads, because in fact it's going to be a very difficult price for society as a whole, for the economy and for people who, God forbid, are going to freeze or pay for crazy tariffs. So let's just take a step back today and do it normally so that it doesn't happen again as often as you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u180	I understand you won't insist on this amendment, yes. Let's move on. Next amendment, Batenko. Don't insist. The devil doesn't insist. 33rd, Nagorniak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I think we should redistribute the budget properly. We have a re-establishment of the state budget, and unfortunately there is no re-enactment in the communities. And every community is now faced with buying gas for schools, for gardens, for hospitals at a cost. If we don't help them now, they won't be able to buy gas for schools at these cosmic prices right now, for gardens and in the heating season, they're going to run out of gas. So there's a request to support this amendment, and it was agreed on by NAC Naftogaz, and by the government, it's about 23 billion dollars that NAC Naftogaz compensates for the difference in tariffs. So ask the speaker to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 33rd amendment of the People's Deputy of Nagorniak. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:30.]] For 121 The decision is not taken. 34th. Sowsun. Please, Inna Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u183	I will continue and continue, including what Mr. Sergei Nagorniak was talking about. I'm going to read some figures that are already known for how much the heating costs will be for the budgetary institutions. Budget institutions, friends, these are gardens, these are schools, this is a hospital. So now they're panicking, trying to figure out how they're going to pay for utilities in this heating season. For example, in Hmelnica, heat has already increased from 1 thousand 600 to 3 thousand 400, and hot water has doubled. Zitomir: Growth is the same as 250 percent. We see the same thing in Dniper, the growth is already fixed one and a half times. So we can't expect to sign a memo, but if we don't get the money, we're going to solve the problem of how our gardens, schools, and hospitals are going to burn. I don't know who to talk to and who needs to hear it now. Friends, but you're majors, you know that in your districts, it happens. It's a problem that you're going to have to deal with for a very long time if you don't make these changes now and you won't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u184	I'm betting on amendment number 34 of National Deputy Sowsun. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:10]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. One second, because there's been a lot of rejection. 85th, Dusty Peter. What's that? 36th, Eugene, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, as soon as you have heard unreliable information, because it is the assistance provided under the support programme for the world economy that belongs to the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. So $2.7 billion is obviously going to be distributed in some other way, not through the state budget. On this issue, there may be a question and a call from many colleagues in this room. Because now they're trying to hide this huge amount of money from us. My amendment refers to that cynical added article to the expense of such an orderly as the Office of the President of Ukraine. They've been added to the cost of $1 million, $799,000, or $2 million. Please tell me, at this time can we now review the costs of some of the employees at such a time of crisis for the country? Please support the 36 amendments and do not add any more funds to this schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u186	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 36 of the People's Deputies of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:09]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. Yeah, next. 35th, I'm sorry. 35th, Timoshenko, Cimbaluk, Krulko. Mikhail Mikhailovich, we agreed for two minutes. Two minutes. Well, let's do 3, but you're taking all your corrections. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u187	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! When we were discussing drafts last night, which were initiated by the Fatherland team and other opposition deputies, then one of them raised and updated the annual March pension told us that 4.5 billion were not in the budget. Today the government has offered to divide almost 40 billion dollars. It turns out there's money. Why aren't they available to raise minimum pensions? Why is it that there is no means to support the Chernobylites, who go away into eternity every day without waiting for the State’s concern? Julia Timoshenko and I were making specific proposals for a budget change, they were 12 billion and more, and we offered to allocate 29 billion, at least to record 12. With our amendments, we suggested that we still don't pay the grant to the united communities, where there's not enough pay for teachers, higher wages that we promised are not paid, because there's not enough money even for those that have already been fixed. Our next amendment was to pay the doctors, including those who treat those who suffer from cod, they don't all pay these allowances. This is not just about doctors, but it is about nurses, health workers, and health professionals. Our next amendment applied to grants to the united communities for the so - called signing of the memorandum. A memorandum is a contract, an agreement of intent. In particular, it is only possible for positive communities and cities to decide, and what can be done where there are no funds? In fact, they need to get back what the communities have earned and have been cut off from the state budget. We demand that Fatherland's work be taken into account. Social services, primarily subsidies, aids, and payments to persons with disabilities. And the most painful problem is pension insurance, which is not included in these changes. Payments to military pensioners who still demand nothing has been made. On the contrary, some have lost their pension insurance. Fatherland for a project like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u188	Thank you, Mikhailovich. 85 Amendment, Peter Alekseiovich Prashenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to our proposals for the financing of pensioners, the payment of the thirteenth pension, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where we are. The Z-Equator has already set foot in 2.5 years – no money has ever been raised for the military. Today, military doctors do not receive the benefits of working with nomadic patients. And in general, the military's debt exceeds 2 billion dollars. If previously complained that there was no increase, today they are complaining of a delay in payment of money. This is the summation of the state’s ability to defend itself. In addition, no military cars have been purchased, no units of armoured equipment have been installed, no complex of Neptune on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u190	I'm betting on a vote of 85 amendments to the People's Deputies of Dusty. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:28]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 86 Amendment, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, as you say. You're on the air right now, and here you're talking about what you're absolutely as pureheartedly looking after the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thus, the bill’s proposed revisions are based on this article of the bill, which provides for payment. For military supplies, only 4 billion are offered, it's to cover the debt that is. So you're not going to make the extra payments you promised to pay, and you're not going to settle with the military by the end of the year. Therefore, our amendment leads to the sum of 10 billion that is essential in order to cover expenses under this article. Please tell me, now that we're thinking about where to spend the money, is there really a discussion around this article? Please explain to the committee head or committee member why you did not take into account all the needs of the military, specifically in this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u192	I'm betting on a vote of 86 amendments to the national MP of the South. The answer, please, is the 86th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u193	Thank you. The amendment was not taken into account because, again, it did not contain a source of coverage. But once again, let's say that we've been channeling funds, including to provide for the needs of the military, and if there are situations like this again, we hope they'll be smaller, we'll definitely find ways to cover them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u194	I'm betting on a vote of 86 amendments to the national MP of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:34]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 90. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u195	Dear Mr. Head, continuing the previous speech. We have a double problem today. The considerable amount of money planned in the amount of government procurement financing is not financed, is lost, and the army is left unarmed, without modernizing modern military technology. I want to stress again, over the current year, I think very few people understand that, we don't have any units of armor and no military trucks. And in this situation, I demand that a separate closed session be held on the level of the State's defencefulness in order for the State's political leadership and leadership to report. Guys, we're talking 150 million now. You have money for stealing, you have money for a dumpster, and you don't have money for your own army. It's definitely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u196	I'm betting on the vote of 90 of the People's Deputies of Dusty and Paulie. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Yes, the position of the committee. Do you insist that each one of you be yours? All right, I get it. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u197	Thank you. Well, I'd like to point out that the cost of defense is definitely increasing. And we see those record costs that are set in 2022. So to say that we don't care about our needs, we can't. And in this bill, we've also taken into account and resolved the topical issue of providing payments to military personnel. With regard to how the arranger spends money, we, as a budget committee, regrettably cannot give you this information. All we do is conduct proper audits and ensure that the needs of our army are fully met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u198	I am betting on a vote of 90 amendments to the National Deputies of Dusty and Paulie. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:04]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 91 amendment, national MP, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, do you all understand, we're just trying to tell some fairy tales again. This is a government proposal to cut the article on the purchase of military equipment by 150 million dollars. So they don't add a penny, they take 150 million dollars out of this article. And when we talked about the small sums you added, we're explaining to you that it's only enough to pay off the debt, not to make the payment, not to support the payment by the end of the year. And you're saying you're going to review the budget again? When? You'll enter the 22nd year with a debt to the military. Please support this amendment. Return 150 million to acquire technology and weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u200	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u201	The committee did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u202	I'm betting on the 91st amendment of the People's Deputy of the South. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:30.]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 92, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, you know, teach the match, because the money allocated to the army next year is no more than this year, because you've included these expenses in the international military aid that used to go separately. So go ahead, teach the game and do not deceive your own deputies. Next. We're looking at budget changes. Do you see the Prime Minister here? Do you see the Minister of Finance here? You see the Minister of Economics here, you see the Minister of Social Policy here? Do you see the Minister of Communities and Territories here? This is Kabmin Zelensky's attitude towards people, the real attitude. And finally. As far as I'm concerned, I'm proposing to take 10 billion dollars off the road, and journalists have already proved that you're raising prices twice. And transfer them to the purchase of Neptune's anti-ship missile complex. And on account of the decrease in the amount of money just allocated to the "great theft." Because Neptune Division is our real protection against the enemy. I ask everyone to really think about it and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u204	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u205	Thank you. The amendment was rejected. And again, I want to point out that we're not lying to anyone. It's really an increase in revenue and formation, actually an opportunity to provide for the current needs. Your correction, with all due respect, did not come from the manager. The Minister of Finance took part in committee meetings, and all the deputies who wanted to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u206	Thank you. I'm betting on the 92rd amendment of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:32]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. 93rd, Dusty. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u207	Thank you, Mr. Head. With your permission, I'd like to comment very briefly on the previous phrase. You've changed the billing database for today. I'm sorry, Your Honor, for the difficult economic terminology, but we're being manipulated by the defense budget. The defense budget has not grown much since you have included international military assistance that was previously not budgeted. I'm just asking, maybe you haven't broken up on the budget committee, split it up, make sure of it, and give the Armed Forces of Ukraine what they absolutely need this year: arms, financial security, social protection. And this is not political opposition. This is a position that, when united, will provide an opportunity to protect the state. What our team did from the 14th to the 19th, when the Ukrainian Armed Forces were reconstructed and stopped the Russian invasion. Thank you. And glory to the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u208	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u209	Thank you. The correction is rejected. Again, I would like to point out that we have really taken international aid into account. But we did everything we could to get it. And the doubt that it will and will go to safety, we don't have it. As for your amendment, Peter Alexiyovich, I would like to respectfully point out that we are now determining why this program is not being used. And there's actually no need to increase it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u210	I am betting on a vote of 93 amendments to the People’s Deputies of Dusty and Paulie. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:40]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 94. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u211	Dear colleagues and all Ukrainians! You've just heard a strange explanation about what they're going to ask the warden, why he didn't make that request. Both the amendments and the proposals of the deputies are therefore not taken into account. So, please tell me the next article. Cynicism is that it is by means of a housing program for military officials that this document reduces by 100 million! And you can't ask, why not use the funds that are allocated in the budget? It's really a shame when we talk about the terrible problems for military personnel, and we adjust the budget to reduce housing financing! Please review this position. Besides, what did we plan to do to increase it, and this is written in the 606th draft of the Law, and you're going to reduce it even further?Oh, my God! This cannot be done by a nation that cares for the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u212	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u213	Thank you. Actually, let's not manipulate. It's not about reduction, it's not about cost reduction, it's about efficiency. That's a whole other question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u214	I'm betting on the 94th amendment of the People's Deputy of the South. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:25]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 137. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, when we're talking about whether there's money or not, I'd like to point out that. Explain, please, 15 billion per road, how are you going to get that money (this is the word that corresponds to spending that money) 3 months by the end of the year? So the very sources of the proposals that we have made are. It will reduce your appetite for roads, because there is no time for roads in the 21st year. And this amendment refers to this 15 billion increase in funding, more loyally, from the state budget to local spending on the general budget of teachers. You see, you're going to promise them once again a salary increase someday, then, 10 years later, 7 years later, when you're going to stay in power. Come on, let's go a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u216	I'm betting on a vote of 137 amendments to the national MP of the South. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:59]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 145. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I still think it would be more fair, it's a block of amendments that relates to reducing the funding of those costs that can exactly wait or not be needed at all. I don't want to get involved in your policy of construction or theft here, I don't know, roads, but notice exactly that by the end of the year, there's a part of the underfunded costs that are very much needed in places. This amendment therefore refers specifically to the State budget subsidy to provide State support to individuals for special educational needs. This is the result of communication in schools last week. People asked us to pay attention to the fact that all the now-inclusive institutions that give this a lot of attention are underfunded, they don't know how to execute this program after inclusion, and they don't know how to do it after the government's inclusion program at all. Notice, the committee, all the references we have to everyone, probably in the mail.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u218	I'm betting on a vote of 145th Amendment to the People's Deputies of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:34]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 152nd Sosun Inna Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, this amendment applies to our children. I see that the revisions don't get the required number of votes right now, but I really hope that there are people in the room who are concerned about the future of our children. We know how much our children have suffered because of this eternal distance learning over the past year and a half. I want to tell you this. If a child in the 5th grade missed at least a few math classes and did not receive additional classes, further clarifications on how to understand a subject, she will miss all the mathematics for the next seven years, she will not understand. Our children lost catastrophic distances within a year and a half. All the civilized countries are now investing massively in overcoming the consequences of this incomprehensible educational process in our schools. I'm asking very much that we pay the same attention and raise money to deal with the effects of COVID-19 on our children's education. I really hope you don't care.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u220	I'm betting on the 152th amendment of National Deputy Sowsun Inna Romanovna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:07]] For-88 The decision is not taken. You're gonna ask for two more amendments, Inna Romanovna, right? 153rd next. Another Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u221	153rd is the last amendment I'm going to put to the vote. This is a question that, unfortunately, I have spoken of on several occasions from the rostrum of this Supreme Council. This is a question of setting up oxygen stations in Ukrainian hospitals. Dear colleagues have spoken dozens of times in this room about this matter. As of yesterday, 15,000 new COVID-19 patients were registered in Ukraine. We have 13 percent of the people who are completely vaccinated. The disaster is now approaching. I am very sorry that for six months all my appeals, the calls of other colleagues who are concerned about the matter, have not been heard. On September 1, the Ministry of Health said that they needed 1 billion to install oxygen stations. Just a little something came out of Kabmin three weeks later, when we were already entering the yellow and red zones. I very much ask that you finally pay attention and solve this problem. We're not gonna solve it for this wave anymore, so accept it, it's your responsibility, but at least for the next few minutes we have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u222	I'm betting on the 153th amendment of National Deputy Sowsun. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:44]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next 154th, Puzichuk. We agreed on three minutes instead of all the amendments. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u223	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, regarding the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and housing construction. I'm leading the task force on the budget committee. The Budget Committee was forced to create a working group and explore the construction and housing issues of military personnel. What should they say? In 2020, zero sums were allocated to housing, with a budget of $1 billion,200 million each year for housing. Zero bracelets were sent to build residential buildings, zero bracelets to build dormitories. This year's situation isn't much better. If, by the end of the year, representatives of the Ministry of Defence had reported that 17 buildings would be in operation, there were now very cautious allegations that three houses might be in place. What does this talk about? This suggests that the turn is only increasing, a completely non-professional government of the Ministry of Defence with budgetary resources. Every year the amount does not go up, but the turn goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up. They don't build, they don't build barracks, they don't build military objects, it's the total collapse of the Ministry of Defense. And unfortunately, there were even statements, you know, very interesting from our colleagues, I wasn't there, but they do say that in September 2020, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander, was present at the Novoyavorov region. The president of the country commissioned the Ministry of Defence this year to complete the construction of three dormitories and one residence, and in a year nothing was done. And what's going on right now is the reallocation of these funds, which is the measure that's going to have to actually shift these funds to other needs. Because the Ministry of Defense doesn't build housing for military personnel, it doesn't deal with housing for military personnel, it doesn't even build barracks. And this is such a very large snow coma that grows every year, and there are 2,000 new military personnel who need housing each year. And at this rate, it's going to take 600 years to provide only those military personnel who are on the floor today. And you know, as a parliament, we need to draw appropriate human resources conclusions from the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u224	Thank you. Next amendment 207, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u225	Thank you, my colleague, for explaining so widely to those who may not have heard about the financing of housing. And in fact, the information that's coming from the "ministers of the people" is not true, you've just canceled and apparently explained it. I'm talking to all my colleagues at the People's Service, did you agree, or did you hear any explanation as to what was involved in the 15 billion-dollar increase in funding for the construction of roads? At this terrible time, when the pandemic had just overwhelmed us. Please tell me why you couldn't reduce your appetite for road construction. Or, at least now, to provide expanded information, which is not enough, what is the cost of 15 billion for three months? And please support the 207 amendment, which relates to exactly 10 billion at the expense of reducing these 15, to target the state guarantees of health care for the population. It's the cost of spending the general fund as much as we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u226	I'm betting on a vote of 207 amendments to the national MP of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:28]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 206, Stefanisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u227	Dear colleagues! Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” I have only one amendment to this bill. It was signed by 20 national deputies, Mrs. Lesia, including you. It refers to medical care for patients with COVID-19 and our doctors. I'm very much asking all the deputies who are listening to this right now to come back face to face. We have a COVID-19 mortality rate of 230 people today. The secretary of the NPB says that by October and November, 50,000 people will be sick. The National Health Service, and I have an appropriate letter, demonstrated it to the members of the committee, needs 5.4 billion dollars at least by the end of this year to simply provide medical services and medicines, and pay to doctors. I very much ask every MP to support this particular amendment number 206.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u228	The committee's position is brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u229	Thank you. The amendment was not supported by the committee. The Ministry of Finance explains: it balances the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u230	I'm betting on the vote 206 amendment of National Deputy Stefanishi. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:19]] For-103 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 220. You're the only one, Camelchuk, you put up, right? We made a deal with you. 220th, Camelchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, distinguished employees of the Hope Mine, I am now addressing you because the problem of paying off the debt for the year 2020 has not yet been resolved. I know the committee with Minfin has temporarily rejected a lot of rights, but it's not the end of history. I want to assure you that before the next bill, before the next change to the budget in 2021, we will apply the agreed amendments and we will definitely close this debt. And all the next moments, when the payment is due, you will be notified. And I will ask my colleagues the next time you hear about the opportunities to help miners who failed to get paid on time under different circumstances, especially for reasons of poor guidance in previous years, to ask for help in such situations, to vote and to support the following adjustments, so that miners will receive the money and their families in time to live in comfort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u232	Don't you insist on voting on this amendment? Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? I'm sorry. 221st. Let me see. Yes, please. It's just the first Gerus standing there. Please, Greeb. People's deputy Gribe, 221st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, today we heard the Energy Minister's report on preparations for the heating season. You know, if we just keep saying that we're ready, we're not ready, we understand that. We're asking the committee to raise the cost of coal miners because one billion dollars is not enough. We're asking you to raise to 2.1 billion dollars to pay the miners a salary, and not just to have some of the money in us go to upgrade the mines so that next year we can have coal, not pay abroad. I'm going to ask you a lot of support right now for 221 revisions and those adjustments that relate to raising the wages of miners. Thank you. And not just pay, but upgrade, or we won't go through the heating season. Let us take responsibility. Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u234	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u235	Thank you. The amendment was rejected because, like most of the proposals for additional expenses, it does not contain a source of coverage.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u236	I am betting on a vote of 221 amendments (national deputies Herus, Mushroom, and others). The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:51]] For-90 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 224. Volinc, please, Mikhail Yakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for mentioning the miners, their fates, the mining cities. But what I want to remind you is that the wage debt is now one billion 900 million. The "ministers" are betting one billion, well-planned payroll debt, no taxes will be paid to local budgets, no central budgets. I propose to make changes to the article "Restructuring", to the program "Restructuring" and to add an additional 2.4 billion dollars, this amount is calculated. Sailors today are forced to take food, supplies, and supplies for the store’s barn book, and they no longer give it to them. Dear friends, let us pay full attention to the people they have. who are working hard and whose work is undervalued in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u238	I'm betting on the 224th amendment of the Volinz People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:32]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, look, I've got an amendment to Eutuska, 379. Ah, you will be, won't you? Okay, then let's move on. No, I remember, I remember, I was going to say that the "ES" amendment, and then I wanted to confirm it again. Yeah? I get it, I see, Mezenceva, Vasilevska Smogluk, I see, Grib, I see. Okay. Then let's go the way we go. 225th, Grissom. Please. You insist, don't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u239	I insist. My colleagues, I'd like to get your attention again. Today we take responsibility with you for not being ready for the hot season. If you don't vote for this amendment, we don't have coal. Where are we going to take the money for that coal from across the border that's already worth $200 and $300 today? We have to do this. Do you not consider that Parliament can do anything for the country? Look at the number of votes they just gave for editing to raise the amount that goes to the miners and to upgrade the mines. Only 90 votes! Do only 90 people in this room think that miners need to raise their wages? Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u240	I'm betting on a vote of 225 amendments to the people's deputies, Grib, Kamelchuk, and others. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:21]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. 226th. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as my colleagues continued to say, on the mines. We were with them on several occasions (and with Volinc and Grib) to the Prime Minister, where he assured us that the source of the fullness of this article, the increase in the expenditure to pay off the debt to miners, would be the overhaul of the budget. Therefore, I do not understand when the Prime Minister assures that the source of funding is, the Minister of Finance does not support it, and the committee accordingly does not support it. Dear colleagues, once again, I want you to support an increase in the upgrade, an increase in the debt of coal products, or the wage of coal miners. Make sure that there is no debt to miners by the new year. Vote in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u242	I'm betting on the vote of 226 people's deputies, Gerus, Greeb, Bondar, and others. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:01]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. The next correction, I can see, is 251, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to warn the "servants" of a very dangerous practice that we unfortunately see at all times. And even today, we hear what we need, we add something, we increase it, and so on. You know, once the budget for this year, the 21st year, "European Solidarity" was immediately asking the question that funding subsidies, money for subsidies is not enough. As early as January, we made appropriate suggestions. Now it's on time, so increase now and not under the residual principle that first "theft" and then everything else, but increase enough. That is, what you've foreseen, and we're also proposing to add another 8 billion dollars to the grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u244	Thank you. This is the 251 amendment of the National Deputies of Dusty and Pauline. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:29]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 252, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u245	Dear Ukrainians, you may be able to observe and make sure that the biggest problems that the entire country expects by the end of this year and at the beginning of the next year are two: the struggle against COVID-19 and the absolute inability of the population to pay for all municipal payments. These are the two biggest problems. So the authorities now tell you that you will be treated with asphalt, applying asphalt, or preparing, volunteers and benefactors, everything will be on your shoulders again. And the second question about subsidies. You have calculations that we need to go through the heating season, you need 20 billion dollars: to pay off the debt and go through these most difficult months. Moreover, we counted when there had not been an increase in utilities. What are you doing? Where are you pushing people again? At least now you'd have to think a little bit about calming the population down by providing them with subsidized payments. Please accept and support this amendment. I'm sure the roads can.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u246	I'm betting on a vote of 252th Amendment to the People's Deputies of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:06]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The next 254, Puzichuk? We agreed we'd give you three minutes -- you're shooting everyone, Andry Viktorovich. Come on, Andrew Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u247	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the following. In the budget of the 20th year, there were 4 billion dollars to feed the military. The budget for the 21st year is 4 billion dollars. In the 22nd year budget, 4 billion dollars. These are applications submitted by the Ministry of Defense. If you look at statistics, at inflation, at the fact that food has gone from 15 to 50 percent this year alone, that means only one thing: that next year, under the direction of the Ministry of Defense, our soldiers will be hungry for this kind of planning. There will be hungry soldiers in the country where the war is taking place. Can you say that today, or can you say that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u248	I'm betting on the 354th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:59]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next. The next amendment is 284. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u249	Thank you. Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". Dear colleagues, we see how difficult the season is coming. Already Naftogaz of Ukraine is informing the government, and this is what we see in the media, that additional costs in general can cost more than 123 billion dollars for all the additional costs associated with rising fuel prices. So we have to provide for those who need it most, and obviously they are pensioners. European Solidarity proposes to increase pension expenditure already this year in order to pay the 13th pension already in November. And so that those who are least protected are prepared for all the complications of the heating season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u250	I am betting on a vote of 284 amendments to the National Deputies of Dusty and Paulie. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:22]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 285. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, yesterday some told us that there was very little to pay for pensioners in the past. I want to show you the document. On the basis of the systemic decisions made in the past, out of the 20 billion additional funds received in the state budget, 9 billion were distributed among pensioners who have suffered the least since the years when we were unable to index pensions. Here's the money that was distributed early in the 19th year, when the car-breathing action ended. Did everyone see this figure in the regions? So now we have to distribute the additional funds that have come to Ukraine, not on the basis of systemic decisions in Ukraine, but on the basis of a gift from Ukraine, 2.7 billion dollars to be distributed. And we insist that the pensioners be paid the 13th, the extra -- call it what you want, but this pension has to be paid in support just at the expense of this fund, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u252	I'm betting on a vote of 285 amendments to the national MP of the South. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:03]] For-79 The decision is not taken. I understand the next amendment to 344, Vasilevska-Smagluk, right? Vasilevska Smagluk, 344 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u253	Vasilevska Smagluk, 96th constituency. I got complaints from a lot of employees, and alienation management agencies, and the Chernobyl nuclear power station workers that they're not getting full pay right now, and by the end of the year, they're going to be out of pay at all. With all due respect, Forest Valentine's Day, I respect you very much, but I don't know how people without pay are going to do the wonderful project you started. And I also don't understand how much worse they are than the people you predicted to pay this year, and these are the employees of the CBC, they're the employees of the National Television and Radio Commission. I'm asking you to consider the amendment. People talk about the fact that they do not receive salaries on nuclear infrastructure. It's nuclear safety, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u254	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u255	Indeed, the situation is complex. We looked at it on the committee. There are currently no sources of coverage, but this question will definitely be resolved in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u256	Then I'm putting to the vote 344 amendments to the National MP of Vasilevsky-Smagluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:50]] For-146 For 346. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 375. This is your last amendment, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u257	Colleagues, the amendment is very simple: money for schools, kindergartens, hospitals. Please support and vote. And we vote in favour of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u258	There are other authors who may also insist. I'll bet you 375. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[13:58:37]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 379, Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich. Excuse me, which one? Now, now, a second. 377, yes, please. Mushroom National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, each of you will depend on or receive almost 100,000 people in the east of Ukraine. Dobropolski, Novodonetska, Bilozerska Board took into their own community property from the state of boilers. Where they were initially deceived and told that they would fund all the damage and supply coal. Now, for some reason, no one wants to take this responsibility. So I'm asking you very much to support the subsidies to these communities so they can get coal and have a warm winter. If this is not done, almost 100,000 people may lose their warmth. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u260	I'm betting on a vote of 377th Amendment to the People's Deputies of the Greeb. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:08]] For-100 The decision is not taken. 379th, Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u261	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, a very important amendment. Too bad, of course, she's not on the committee. This is about the fact that over the last few years there has been a huge difference in tariffs, especially in satellite cities where nuclear power stations are located. By associating with the city’s heads of such united urban communities, they ask us, dear colleagues, to make this debt disappear, that is, we give you the source. And it's a very strange position of the committee that you don't want for the money you're removing for their own income to cover that deficit. So please, the honourable chairman, firstly, allow me to answer to the committee's representative, and secondly, I must put this amendment to the vote. A city like Varash has 97 million debts that have formed in recent years. Why not return it from their own income?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u262	I'm betting on the vote 379 amendment of the national deputy Eutushka. And if you'll excuse me, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u263	Thank you. Indeed, the problem is important, but your amendment, like 82 percent of other amendments, does not contain sources of coverage and leads to a balanced bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u264	I'm betting on the vote 379 amendment of the national deputy Eutushka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:06]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 401, Jujanina. Are you insisting? Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u265	Dear Ukrainians, I'm addressing you now. This year, about 100 billion dollars have been allocated for the construction of roads, which is a very large sum. It may not say anything to you, but it is a considerable cost. Now instead of talking about social costs, authorities say that this construction, where the biggest corruption component, needs to be added to another 15 billion, despite the current state of health institutions associated with the pandemic, and despite the heating season, which will be very difficult for the population to survive. So I offered not to add 15 billion to corruption. Why are you demeaning the Supreme Council in front of people right now? And I ask everyone not to vote for changes to the state budget because of this norm, even though most of the spending is necessary, but certainly not for the theft and not for the corruption of the various costs. Please support Amendment 401.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u266	I'm betting on a vote of 401 amendments to the national MP of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:52]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, look, from what I have, one amendment to Iron 504, two amendments to Mezenzov and you'll still bet on confirmation, and two Nina Petrovna. And you have one. I mean, friends, six more amendments, and we're about to move on to an amendment to confirm. Next amendment 504. Iron, please. Susun, please 504.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u267	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. What is this amendment about? This amendment is that now, at a time when we're waiting for another wave of lokdowns, there's another wave of business closure to give proper support to Ukrainian businesses, small, medium-sized businesses in the first place. We know how much they've suffered in the last waves of lokdowns, and we know just as well that they're facing a new wave of lokdowns. And I really want us to help Ukrainian businesses that give jobs to Ukrainian citizens to survive this difficult period. I very much hope that we will pay attention to their needs and allocate the money they need so badly right now. Because now ignoring business needs means increasing unemployment in the end. After all this, we will need more and more money for social costs if people lose their jobs by shutting down businesses, companies, cafes, whatever else. I'm asking you to think about business right now, because it's a step forward. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u268	I'm betting on the 504th amendment of the People's Deputies, Rudik, Ironborn, Sowsun. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:09]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 522, Mezenceva, I've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, Margaret Thatcher once said that there are no public funds, there are only taxpayers’ costs. I want to thank you for the re-establishment of the budget that we are distributing today. It's going to be about fire safety in schools. Dear colleagues, 300-400 grand costs a fire alarm in every school of any community. Not all communities can have such funds to ensure full fire safety. I am speaking to you today as representatives of the people of Ukraine, little children really died in schools, teachers and academics were in danger. Indeed, the program is set up for the next financial year of 2021, but I have some doubts as to whether this will be enough for everyone. So there's an offer to support this little right, 10 million, colleagues, it's not billions. I'm asking and calling for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u270	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u271	Thank you. The amendment was not supported, the proposal was made, as the source of its coverage was not specified again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u272	I'm betting on a vote of 522 amendments to the people's MP of Mezentsev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[2:07:49]] For 197 The decision is not taken. 523rd. Mezentsev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u273	I'm very short, colleagues. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I want to say that not all contractors who supply equipment at Ukrainian hospitals of local and district importance actually get the money for this medical equipment. This was true of some suppliers who worked with the Lebanese health facilities. It wasn't now, it was almost seven years ago. But last year the budget allocated money to them, but the redistribution went to other suppliers. It's all a very confusing and awkward situation, and we want to make sure that we have this distribution of funds that we're actually going to have to deal with Ukrainian suppliers of UZI equipment. I ask you to support this amendment because they save people's lives every day. Prevention in health care is important to us. Thank you, colleagues, and for supporting the previous review. I love you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u274	I'm betting on a vote of 523 amendments to the people's MP of Mezentsev. The committee proposes to reject and ask for identification and a vote. [[14:09:21]] For 190 The decision is not taken. 526 revisions. National MP Pavlovenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u275	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Colleagues, we hear so much and often today the word "balanced", "unbalanced", so let's then balance properly and allocate funds to what is really a priority, not what gives the greatest "stolencing." It seems to me that the cost of helping doctors and medical personnel in general is much more important than all the road, construction, and repairs that so actively contribute to the President's pianist and his environment. So, dear colleagues, we suggest that we increase the cost of helping medical workers by reducing the corresponding cost of road construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u276	I'm betting on a vote of 526 amendments to the People's Deputies of Dusty and Paulie. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:52]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I understand, there are two amendments to Nina Petrovna's 527th. Please, first 527th, then I'll find another one. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u277	I'm talking to respectable volunteers. As you've learned, you've been fighting and helping the state cope with the effects of the pandemic and helping medical institutions in real time for more than two years, so you have a further fate on your shoulders. Because the amendment that was proposed to be fixed by the orderly, Minfin, is such an additional resource in the form of a fund to combat acute respiratory disease in the range of 8.3 billion dollars as it was created last year, and these funds could already be channelled both to business support and to the purchase of medical equipment. It's quite obvious that in a country that has one of the first places to deal with the problem, there can be no such fund at all. This is money that can be diverted quickly to cover the immediate costs that the state will need. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you so much for all your actions and the work you've been doing for so many years, but for some reason he can't hear you and won't support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u278	I'm betting on a vote of 527th Amendment to the People's Deputies of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:40]] For-78 The decision is not taken. And today's final amendment, which is going to be taken into account, 628th. I understand that, Nina Petrovna? Please, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, 628 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, I thank all those who have not lost their conscience yet and yet think about how the country will experience these difficult months of autumn and winter, and I would just like to pay your attention. Are you not ashamed that at this time, when you do not set aside such urgent needs, you are adding to Ukraine’s Security Service the cost of work? You're giving 250 million extra for two months to the Ukrainian Security Service. Where is your conscience in this case? I ask you to hold off your appetites, not to add these costs, and if possible to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u280	I'm putting to the vote 628 the amendment of the national MP of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:04]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've passed the bill, all the adjustments that we can take into account. I understand there's gonna be someone else putting in confirmation papers, yeah. Who's going to bet? What is the correction? Nina Petrovna Jujanina, tell me the number of the amendment first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u281	398. Dear colleagues, be very careful when preparing tables for second reading. Among the amendments of the people's deputies are very often involved in various corrupt "hotels" and such difficult draft laws are used to suggest that you would never vote on a single bill is such manipulation. Please read this amendment. I mean, we had planned budget spending on debts to airlines for the carriage of citizens during quarantine. It's a program that's been put in place for these kind of emergency measures, to transport people from some hot spot or hot spot. This is how these costs are now offered to other airlines, in general, to change the name of the program: "Contribution of the costs of Ukrainian air carriers, particularly during the time of the introduction of the restrictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u282	This amendment was included in another edition. Yeah? You're suggesting that we put it on confirmation in the same paper that the committee did. Yeah? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u283	This is included in the new edition, including the deletion of the word, sorry for the tautology, in particular. And accordingly, it has a different meaning.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on the confirmation of Amendment 398 in the form in which it is considered by the committee. The committee insists that it remain in the same way that it is included. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[14:16:31]] For 235 Decision taken. The factions, please. What's the next amendment? Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u285	Amendment 32. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! To be honest, it's a genius schematic. It's genius. If it's very easy to say what this amendment is about, it's about the fact that the law after the vote can add anything without a vote in the Supreme Council. That's why, you know, I'm asking you not to support this amendment right now. And Ruslan Alexiyovich, now, to be honest, this is a very serious test for you. Because this is, apart from the fact that it's a schematic, it's actually an attack on the rights of every MP and, above all, of the monotonousness in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u286	Any law is a requirement for each of us and a test for each of us. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u287	The amendment was taken into account because after the vote a number of bills required necessary editorial and technical amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, Amendment 32, was counted by the committee. That's why I'm putting her on the stand. Please vote. [[14:18:20]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've passed the whole bill. So, with your permission, I'm proposing to the committee to adopt the bill in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. This is Bill No. 6052, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on social measures and infrastructure projects. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. Please vote. [[14:19:21]] For 256 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, as we have agreed, the final question for today will be the human resources issue, and once it's finished, we'll move on to the questions. There will be some questions for the President and so on. Dear colleagues, we turn to the question of the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council chooses from its composition the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The election is conducted in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 15 of the Rules. In accordance with articles 74, 79 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, candidates for the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are proposed at the plenary session of the Supreme Council by the deputy factions, the parliamentary groups, the people’s deputies. The question does not require committee preparation. Dear colleagues, I don't think we're going to take a break, we're just going to make those proposals right now. I see there's an offer from the "Serve of the People" faction. I'll make an announcement. The "Serve of the People" faction makes a proposal for the candidature of Mr. Aleksandar Sergiyovich as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand there's still an offer from the European Solidarity faction. I give the word to Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, we would like to thank the session room for the support of Jana Zinkevich and Alexia Hotcharenko. We are convinced that there are far more than 226 national deputies in the hall who would like to see our highly professional colleagues in the Presidium, but the Bank does not allow us to vote. At the same time, do not be afraid of real opposition in the Presidium; do not be afraid of women in politics and prejudices that accurately add wisdom, courage, strength, and professionalism to the Sessional Hall. Our political power is putting on the position of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Professor Sophia Fedin, and we ask you to consider this question. We are confident that Mrs. Fedina will add courage to this room, adding patriotism. And it's definitely going to be independent, it's going to be the first vice-specieser who, you know, will represent Parliament. And the first thing she's going to do is give up security. She doesn't really need protection, because, you know, she didn't suffer, she did.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u290	I've come to realize that the European Solidarity faction is the candidate of the Sofia Sofia Romanovna. Dear colleagues, there will be no more candidates, I understand. Documentation is already being prepared by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable national MPs, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules before the start of the discussion of the proposed candidates in the parliamentary factions, the parliamentary groups of the Supreme Council's apparatus provide the National Deputies with information on each of these candidates. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules, I declare a recess (how much do we need, 30 minutes, right?) 30 minutes to get there. 20, right? 15. One second, I'm gonna go to the apparatus, one second. The machine won't be here in 15 minutes. 30 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we cannot read the questions. Because when asked, decisions are made. We're in the middle of something. That's why we need 30 minutes now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, we are about to move on to the next stage. One second, I'm going to tell you what's going on with the apparatus. Dear colleagues, all the materials of those candidates that were put forward are given to you. I hope there was enough time to get to know them. Now we have to make a decision that we are finishing the nomination, and we need to make a decision to move to the candidate discussion. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. And I'm voting on the proposal to complete the nomination of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to move to the discussion of candidates to complete this stage. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:10:29]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Show me the factions, please. In accordance with the Rules, honourable national MPs are invited to consider the following procedure as the previous one, so please support everyone. Presentations by candidates with a report on the program – up to 20 minutes, responses to questions by national MPs – up to 9 minutes, 1 minute for each oral question and 2 minutes for an answer to it, statements from MPs and groups to 21 minutes, 3 minutes each, statements from national deputies to 6 minutes and decisions. Look, the speeches are up to six minutes, so there are two national MPs: one in, one in, and one in, against. Dear colleagues, let's confirm the rules. Please, from the procedure first Arahamiah and then Heroshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u292	Colleagues, I propose a final vote on the first day of the next plenary week. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u293	Dear colleagues. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, you know, today, when we were going to our little consensus council, discussing the conduct of one of the Ukrainian national deputies, we agreed to vote today on a key law that interests people in the first place is a budget law. And that's what our faction has been insisting on for three hours now that we vote for the budget, and these personnel are asking questions that only those present in the room are interested in for the next session week. And unfortunately, we've seen that all the arrangements that take place in Parliament's leadership are not being implemented in this room. I would like to draw the attention of all those present here and the deputies and the Ukrainians. And, of course, you know, it's very sad that there won't be any questions today, because. Ask the President, and there are many questions about the scandal he was involved in with the offshore, there are questions about Ukreximbank, and today it is not because of the irresponsible leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-08-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, it's a matter of order, isn't it? If we don't approve it, we don't have a deadline, then we'll get back to that. Then we can go back to the next session and.. at the next meeting, right? Dear colleagues, I'm putting up the offer that was made. I would like to place a set order on this issue. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:13:57]] For 229 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. In accordance with article 31 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, honourable members of the People’s Council, I give the floor to the candidate to serve as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine. Wait a minute, now for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see, we've adopted the rules, and I understand that the proposal today is to round it up. Faction and group leaders, please come in for a second. Dear colleagues, a brilliant offer, I think it will even receive a huge amount of support in this room. There's an offer for this room to close today's plenary session. Ready? Ladies and gentlemen, I propose today's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to declare closed. Please vote. And get back to that question in the next plenary week. [[15:16:01]] For 226 I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, October 19, at 10 a.m. Thank you, colleagues.
