ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, welcome back! Let's get started. Prepare to register. Are you ready to register? The registration takes place by pressing the sensor button and the green button, the first on the left, as always.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u2	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u3	That's right, the choice. about green. You may not register, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ready? Please register. The same thing: sensory and green. And keeping it to the end is the most important thing. [[10:07:12]] There are 275 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. You let go, well, I saw. Enough more when you vote, that's what you're counting on for registration. Nestor Ivanovich, don't let go, your hands should be busy. Dear colleagues, let's move on to our work. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, they've already registered. If someone has not registered now, when you vote, it is thought that you have registered in a plenary session, at least one vote. Nestor Ivanovich, don't worry, everything will be counted. Today is the birthday of Artem Volodymyrovich Kovalova. [[Applause]] Hello! I wish you luck! See, it's your birthday present. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, I remind you, Tuesday. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I remind you that on Tuesday, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have up to 30 minutes to speak from representatives of MP factions and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. Please sign up for the performance. Puzichuk Andri Volodymyrovich. Andrew Viktorovich. I'm sorry. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u4	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, I would like to inform you and society about how the era is unfolding to stop corruption by setting tariffs. You remember well that last week our team gathered payments all over the country, and we saw two things that needed attention. First of all, gas, and as a result of heat, hot water is sold at a price not far from 7 bracelets, but 9, 10 bracelets, and sometimes more. So people don't just have an unlimitedly high rate of 6.99 in payments, but people actually have much higher numbers in payments. The second we saw. What intermediaries all over the country started working is called the market in paws, where they buy cheap gas in Crushing, at NAC Naftogazi, they buy about 2 bracelets of 60 and a little bit more, and then they sell 9. There are 4-5 of these mud companies in every area. And people put the last cents on this kind of corruption. Well, NAC Naftogaz also takes off peaks, which are then produced by hundreds of billions outside Ukraine. That is why our faction initiated the faction to gather a meeting of faction heads, where two decisions were made. The first decision. All factions give their bills on tariffs. And we got signed letters that included all the bills on tariffs, without exception, that all the factions offered. We collect 150 signatures and we hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council, where we deal with all tariff issues and stop corruption. So now we're going to ask again for a break with the faction leaders' meeting to ask who's going to put these signatures, who's not, and how the Supreme Council will react to the fact that tariff corruption has already reached billions of rounds. And the second. We agreed on a meeting of faction leaders that will be voted on by the interim commission of inquiry led by John Krulco, an anti-corruption investigation against NAC Naftogazu. Such a TSC has passed, the "ministers of the people" have given no voice, and these arrangements have been broken. Now at the faction leaders' meeting, we're going to raise that question again. Either Parliament will be an accomplice to corruption on tariffs, or we'll set it straight. I would like this parliament not to enter the history of Ukraine as a corrupter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u5	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u7	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, on Friday, February 26, there was an unprecedented event in the history of an independent Ukraine. At 6 p.m., a new television channel called "First Independent" was broadcast, which was created by journalists of three TV channels, who were suppressed by the authorities, and they were sanctioned by illegal, unconstitutional. They worked on air for an hour and then suddenly disappeared from satellite speech and from cables. We found that the reason why journalists could not speak was not even the ORP, where it was the first time February 2 even though terrorism had been linked to one, but simply a letter from the BSS, which pointed out that the founders of the new TV channel, attention related to those on whom sanctions had been imposed. The nature of the sanctions, I want to draw your attention, it refers to a person and a non-national of Ukraine. This is because of some terrorism that is not there, which has been sanctioned by a Ukrainian citizen. Then, by means of a mechanism designed, inhuman, and illegal, the bonding of persons closed the television channel after one hour of speech. So now I can connect half of this room with those on whom the sanctions were designed. People good, where's the Constitution, where's the rule of law? How can journalists today be so afraid that a 100 - percent - based television channel can be shut down after one hour of speech? And this is the way to democracy, this is the way to freedom of speech? We will today defend the democratic constitutional rights of our citizens, the right of journalists to a profession, the right of our citizens to get information, whether they like it or not. What are journalists guilty of today? What they're saying is what people in the kitchen say, what they're saying about high tariffs, the lack of prospects for peace, the meager incomes of our citizens, the meager pensions and the grim salaries of officials, those in power today? So today we say, "Get away from the journalists! Freedom of speech in Ukraine!".. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u9	Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Our MP Party for the Future points out that in Ukraine today there is a debt collapse -- a debt crisis in housing and utilities. Think about it. On January 1, 2021, the population debt for residential services is 73 billion dollars, and natural gas accounts for 31.5 billion or almost 43 percent. The citizens of Ukraine simply cannot pay the excessively high tariffs that exist today. We believe that the problem of high gas prices in Ukraine is artificial and is a direct continuation of short-term politics and government, and NAK Naftogazu Ukraine. We want to remind you that out of all the gas that Ukraine consumes, 70 percent is the gas itself. The import ingredient is 30 percent in the total natural gas balance. However, both types of gas, owned and imported, are subject to the same price. It's wrong and it's definitely unfair. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" is calling on the President of Ukraine to instruct the government to review the method of calculating the wholesale price of natural gas in Ukraine. The introduction of such an economically sound wholesale price will allow us to reduce substantially our beliefs to 60 percent of the price of gas per capita in Ukraine. We also require the Prime Minister of Ukraine to introduce economically sound mechanisms for the removal to Ukraine's state budget of part of the revenue that is today in the "Operator of the GTS Ukraine" and NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine". It's estimated that not less than 20 billion dollars of income can be channelled to local communities in the form of subsidies to repay the debt of thermalcommunergo and TEC enterprises for natural gas consumed. Friends, the other question that our parliamentary group "For the Future" is the issue of vaccination, a question that actually concerns every citizen of Ukraine. The whole society is demanding answers to the question: Why is there a vaccine in Ukraine, an Indian copy of the analogs of the relevant world companies and the effectiveness of which is highly questionable. And at the cost, what we do know is that the cost of vaccines is higher than that of the pharmaceutical industry's leaders. There's information that the purchase of a vaccine from Pfizer for the European Union was more than twice as cheap as the cost we're offered in Ukraine. We're paying for inoculations of questionable quality instead of setting aside the cost difference for hospital equipment. Are we so rich that we can spend our taxes on taxpayers, and are the authorities so stupid that we don't respect our fellow countrymen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u11	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians! Just seven years ago, the Federation Council voted in favour of the introduction of Russian occupation forces into the territory of the sovereign Ukraine. And today's Banquet forgets are always threatening to remember the names of those who gave up Crimea. So let's remind Zelenski that it was Yanukovic who wrote a letter to the Russian Federation to introduce troops. And you know that 90 percent of the ments, because they don't raise their tongues to call them the Crimea militia, they took an oath, they gave them to the Ukrainian people and Ukraine. And actually, the management of these "mentals" is now working on the Bank. You know, Biden, the new president of the United States, issued a very strong statement for the seventh anniversary of the Crimea occupation, where he made it very clear who the invader is, is the Russian Federation. And only President Zelensky fears calling Putin an aggressor, speaking of some separatists in the east. This week, European President Charles Michel will visit Donbas. So let us ask Zelensky, in the presence of our European partners, to tell us that there is no day of truce, dozens of people killed and wounded just this year, of the torn and blocked release of hostages, of the suffering of millions of Ukrainians. And not the separatists in the east, not the fighters, not the babies, not the gorillas, but one hundred more synonymous with these bastards, but there are Russian occupying armies and their mercenaries. And we need to call things our names and immediately adopt the Law on Collaborationism. We want to thank the factions of Voice and other colleagues who supported the European Solidarity Initiative and co-sponsored the Cooperation Act. Of course, the monotony is not to be dusty, and at the same time they have registered their own similar bill. You know, we're not going to be tearing up embroidery here, which is the bigger patriot, the main thing is to adopt this law. And we demand that the Head of the Supreme Council immediately submit to the agenda a bill on collaborationism, just like the TSC on "vagants," because it's rude when there are traitors in the highest offices of the states, who are betraying Ukrainian spies again today, betray them. In fact, Zelensky promised to return the Ukrainians home without telling anyone that he would return the ministers of the government of Yanukovic, Bogatirov, along with her "schematosis" for the purchase of vaccines, that he would return Janukovic's lawyers, who are being held in custody today. And they promised you'd sit in the spring, but they're sitting on the Reef today, Sternenko, who stopped the Russian peace in Odessa, they're sitting on veterans today, they're sitting on Julia Kuzmenko, who's been nominated for European Solidarity in our 50th district.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u13	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the members of our faction travel the country and every time they come to a city, they ask me the same question: when are the results of the investigation into the collapse of the special operation of the Wagnerians? And unfortunately, you have to say all the time that a fraction of the majority can't give its people to create this TSC. And people understand that someone who is inconvenient in creating this TSC, and someone is afraid of creating it, is so afraid that they've already started persecuting those fighters who have taken a direct part in the development of this special operation, its implementation. A few days ago, security guards were removed and evicted from the protected ex-head house of the General Intelligence Directorate of Basil Burba, as if in the media information, for giving a witness to the law enforcement authorities about the collapse of this special operation. I want to say, as a security officer, I understand directly from foreign intelligence and aggressor intelligence: this is a direct sign from Russia that the security of this officer is now in his hands. And we can't let that happen. Is this our reward for protecting our country? For us, it should be a shame that we have not been able to answer society for six months or that there has been betrayal in the higher leadership of the State. I want to turn from here, from this high rostrum, to the leaders of the parliamentary factions of Irina Gerashchenko, Arthur Gerasimov, Julia Timoshenko and other factions to support this decision in the hall, and we voted in favour of creating this temporary commission of inquiry. Because we should not hide the truth, and society should know whether or not there was betrayal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u15	Bacon. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, "Trust" group. In our difficult war with an aggressor in the east, we are protected by our soldiers, our heroes, such as the defenders of the legendary 24th Brigade and other brigades. But what they can't protect us from is the Coronavirus. The coronavirus helps us fight our protectors, our medics. And the vaccine, the vaccine, which is late at least, will help them overcome this virus, but it started in our country. And there's no vaccine to take turns when there's already a lot of questions for major MPs in their districts. Questions about the quality of the vaccine, questions about the frequency of vaccination. In particular, I would like to highlight our students who are scheduled to be vaccinated until autumn. Yet we urge the government to change the plan and inoculate our teachers before autumn. This will ensure the health of teachers and students, and it will ensure that our schools have a normal stationary learning process. What else will the schoolchildren face in the autumn or nearer the end of the year and the local communities — that is, the lack of funds for wages. The reason is that the formal calculation of the educational subsidy is too small for the newly created communities and is already approved by the Ministry of Education. We need to change it clearly because the problem with the lack of educational subsidies is in many areas: in Ternopolska, in Lviv, in Frankish, in Poltavian. For example, the figures from the foreign communities of Lvivščina: the Rava-Russia community -- they lack the salaries of teachers of 10 million. The Novowarov community is more than 20 million. The Gold community is over 20 million. So we urge the government to count the educational subsidy so that there will be no pay delays for teachers at the end of the year. Because the newly created communities do not have the money to pay wages, nor do they have the money to develop infrastructure in these communities. So you and I need to vote on Bill 5066, which will at least increase the flow of VAT into local communities. Then they will be able to develop, and then they will have the development budgets they were told about in the media to make roads, sidewalks, gardens, and other institutions. And we need to increase your presence with you, then the local heads will be the real masters. And just that step, not just by accepting old age documents, they'll be in or out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u17	Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The most difficult part of the heating season seems to have been without an excess. Today, however, we need to consider the new energy challenges facing our nation. Today I would like to talk about a special price for electricity for the population. As you know, today there is a tariff of 68 copies of bracelets for the population in Ukraine. And this is a special price, set by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is scheduled for April 1, 2021. And you know what? Even as a member of the Energy Committee today, I do not know what will happen to this price: will the government continue to act on this decision if, under what conditions, will the population of Ukraine be released into the free market and the price of electricity increase for the population? I would like to mention the situation we faced before 2021, when the government on December 27 changed its decision to the Cabinet of Ministers and canceled 100 kilowatts of consumption for the population. As a result, we witnessed a massive social upheaval, and we were forced to urgently collect the Supreme Council to make changes to the state budget and allocate one and a half billion dollars to the users who are burning their premises with electric cars. Could this situation have been avoided? Yes, of course. It was necessary to communicate the government’s position in a timely manner, to reconcile it with the Supreme Council, and to bring it to the population. I'm from Carpathian, and this part of the territory of Ukraine is in the so-called Burstine Energy Island. Even today, the price of electricity in the wholesale market of the Carpathians and the Burstine Energy Islands is higher than the wholesale price of electricity in the United Energy System of Ukraine. If the government cancels and does not continue the decision to set a special price for electricity for the population, the price of Zacarpatta for the population may increase - think about it - to 4 dollars per kilowatt. It seems to me that the majority of the inhabitants of this land simply cannot afford such luxury as electricity. What do we ask of the government? First. Continue the decision with a special price for the population for electricity for another year, because communication has actually failed. The other one. Work out how to get the population into the market, how to proceed with this decision, and how to continue it, that is, take a position. Third. Bring this position to the Supreme Council and reconcile it with the deputies. And the fourth. Communicate to the people. Policy in every field should be sound, transparent, and fair, and energy should be no exception. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u19	Thank you. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Kira Aleksandrovna Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, today I appeal to you to bring judicial reform to a reasonable end by sacrificing political competition for the benefit of cooperation. Ukrainians no longer want to tolerate another court show, a festival of injustice that has lasted for more than 30 years. How many more are we going to see politically motivated decisions or unfair steps when they're looking for a corkscrew? The system simply sacrifices its pedestrians, and nothing really changes. Now something like this is being proposed by Presidential Bill 3711-d, which concerns judicial reform. It's just patching holes and mimicking reform, not a full-blown solution to a long-standing problem. That's why the Voice faction won't support this bill. We suggest that we approach the issue in a comprehensive manner and make court reform a priority number one for Parliament in order to actually restart the judicial system. We are ready to work constructively with the MPs and the authorities to finally get the Ukrainians a fair trial. The Voice party has a clear understanding that the old system has long since revived itself and is not working for the Ukrainians and their quality lives. So let's not be another MP, another vocation that only reforms words. We're talking about the outcome, not the process. We want to be a modern progressive country, we always repeat that Ukraine is not a third world country. But as long as we have a corrupt court in our country, it remains the norm of the old judicial system. Those words are just words. The Voice party has a vision of reforming the judicial system, the first step of which is to relaunch the judiciary. In particular, we have to start by reforming the High Council of Justice and re-launching the selection of candidates. The selection must be through a filter of professionalism and integrity. To do that, we need to create a commission of professionalism and integrity so that judges can become professionals with a good reputation, not a "price" judge of the past. The courts must be independent and apolitical. Because of the close cooperation of the entire parliament, we believe that this is possible. Only in this way will we cleanse the judicial system of nonprofessional judges and fill it with those who are truly able to judge justly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u21	Kira Aleksandrovna. Dear colleagues, me. Can I have your attention, please? Let's go. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, please. Anatoly Maksimovich Zlenko, the first foreign minister of Ukraine. I offer to honor his memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, there has been a statement of a real recess with the request to convene a meeting in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite representatives of the MPs and groups to my office. Let's get back to work at 11:05.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Shall we try the alarm again? Yeah? Jaroslav Vasilovich, five times, okay, agreed. Once again, I remind you that voting is done, first the sensor button is pressed, then the "for", "against" button is pressed. And we have to keep it to the end, once again, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can show it. Signal? Turn on the signal vote, please. Ready to vote? I can't hear you. I can't hear you. Ready? Please vote. [[11:11:24]] For 242 - 242, 17 against, 23. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the first question of the agenda. This is the draft decree for the alteration of the day - to - day fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation. The procedure is Gerasimov, and then we go to the vote. What about the discussion? Then the motives are Gerasimov, Koltunovich, Yvchenko. Nobody insists anymore. Gerasimov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! "European Solidarity" will not support this bill, and I'll explain very simply why. What is there? And there's Mr. Greensky's bills that don't bring the state closer to a normal life that doesn't bring the welfare of citizens closer to improving it. But why isn't there? And there's no regulation on the cessation of political persecution by the opposition, there's no legislation on information security, and there's absolutely no need for Parliament to take action against the Fifth Column because it's supposed to be systemic. It's not because it's the opposition. And, most importantly, there's no Interim Investigation Commission after the break-up of the Wagnerian operation. This is a very important question, because the state betrayal that took place in the highest cabinets of the state has to be investigated, and the Ukrainian Parliament cannot be apart from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u24	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Mr. Head, why I took the floor, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that the list of bills and draft regulations that we are considering is not related to or correlated with that general list, for example, the number of deputies representing a particular faction. We don't have a proportional distribution of relevant bills, I'm not talking about looking at them in the hall, for example, here. For example, our faction, it has the right to claim 10.4 percent of all the bills that go into the agenda and are being considered in this room. That's the first one. And the second. I cannot help but notice that the order of the day today and in the entire session, it does not meet the challenges of the time that it is today. And I want to remind you, 18 months of industrial production, 18 months of agriculture, exports. We have, just yesterday, I looked at the latest data, 9.9 million workers, with 11.1 million pensioners. Imagine 9 million people working and 11 million pensioners working. So from this point of view, we need a completely different order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u26	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u27	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Head, "Fatherland" will not support this decision. First, once again, I would like to point out that out of the 41 bills proposed by the faction of the Fatherland, there is none in this decree. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, please take a closer look at the opposition bill. Here's the thing: making changes to the Labour Code, raising wages. Do you need it? I have to. Second, colleagues: to increase the minimum wage. Well, we always talk about it, but we don't include it in the agenda. With regard to establishing the actual size of the subsistence minimum that promised the majority and did not do so, there are bills. In terms of increasing the prestige of mining, a colleague, too, of unemployment assistance to anti-terrorists and war veterans. No "Fatherland" bill has been included, and this is 41 bills. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the vote. Let's make another signal, then we'll vote. Is there no objection? I remind you, first, when the vote begins, the sensory button, then the pros button, but keep it to the end. Ready? The first signal is for everyone to get used to how it works, because we don't vote. Ready to vote? Ready? The signal vote, please run. Please vote. [[11:16:25]] For 231 Decision taken. All worked out, dear colleagues? Again with the signal? I'm putting the alarm back on, but please keep it to the end, because you can see on the board that you're taking your finger off the button. Please vote. [[11:17:03]] For 217 Again? Did it all work out? Don't scream, please. Ready to vote? I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please support and vote. Please keep it to the end. Registration number 4690-4. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:18:06]] For 232 Decision taken. Did it all work out? Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" is 210 out of 218, "Resistance Platform" is 0. 16 – against, "European Solidarity" – 21 held on to 24, "Fatherland" – 15, "Party for the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 1, non-fractional – 4. Thank you. The next issue of order is a series of questions related to inclusion in the agenda and shortening of lines. Is there no objection? I'll put it to the vote right away. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a single collection to the budget (Registration No. 5153). Ready to vote? This is a day-to-day issue to shorten the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills. These questions will not be considered today. Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:19:54]] For 266 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut in half the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills and to draw conclusions from the committee on it. Bill 5153 registration number. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:20:28]] For 231 Decision taken. Next question is whether to include in the agenda and how to shorten the lines. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Budget Code in relation to amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (registration No. 5154). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:48]] For 263 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw the opinion of the committee on the bill, registration number 5154. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:22:27]] For 228 Decision taken. Next question. Also about including and shortening periods. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article 16 of the Law on Currency and Monetary Transactions in relation to the amendment to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Promotion of the Childhood of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a single collection to the budget. Ready to vote? Ready? Registration number 5155. Please support and vote. [[11:23:27]] For 266 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut in half the terms of alternative bills and to draw conclusions from the committee on the bill (registration number 5155). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:24:05]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. I bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, given some technical difficulties, let's do it anyway. I'll put it back on the vote for inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, joining the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't vote short, dear colleagues, we voted for inclusion!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u31	I'm sorry, yes, it's a shortcut. But this is a procedure that deals with the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, so it allows us to put it again. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, don't shout, please. Bill number 5155 was included in the agenda. He won 266 votes. The issue of reduction is a procedural question about the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we can put it to the vote again. Is that right? Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm glad we figured out the periphery of the Rules. That's why I'm shortening the terms of Bill 5155. Please support and vote. [[11:26:39]] For 214
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u34	The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine in connection (don't shout, please!) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by natural persons of their assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5156). It's a shortcut. Ready to vote? I'm sorry, it's a day-to-day inclusion. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Keep it to the end, please. [[11:27:46]] For 260 Decision taken. Decision taken. For 260, the decision is made. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut in half the deadlines for introducing alternative bills and to draw the Committee's conclusions on them (registration number 5156). Ready to vote? Please, if you don't hold it to the end, it doesn't count, I repeat. Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:28:32]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You're invited to consider, here are a few drafts. I'm sorry, draft regulations for the selection of out-of-order elections. Would you please tell me what you need to talk about? After each discussion? Okay. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Assignment of Elections of the Kolarov Rural Head of the Berdjan region of Zaporozhye (registration number 5168). Elections on October 31, 2021 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? The voting procedure is the same. Please support and vote. [[11:29:59]] For 262 Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Zagreb’s Alina Leonidivna are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u35	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! The Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, at its meeting on February 25, this year, reviewed the individual concerns of individual local councils regarding the appointment of the successive elections of the Kolarov Rural Head of the province of Zaporozhye in connection with the permanent cessation of headship, on the basis of the requirements of part one of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Government. Colleagues, I remind you that these are our exclusive mandates, the authority of the Supreme Council to appoint out-of-order elections for rural, rural, urban, 90-day term, and no later than 60 days before election day. I remind you that article 85, paragraph 30, of the first article of the Constitution, as well as the requirements of part one of article 5, part three of article 194, part one of article 195 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, the local elections are held twice a year: the last Sunday of March and the last Sunday of October. Therefore, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint, in turn, the Kolarov Rural Head of the Berdian region of Zaporozhye for Sunday, October 31, 2021. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, please, who wanted to sign up for the speech: two for, two for, yes? But it's better just who wanted it. Please sign up. Everything with the sensor, my friends. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u37	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, it is very important for us to choose local authority and, of course, we must hold elections in the Berdian district of Zaporozhye. But let's answer one question: what's going on in the country right now, and where does the elections really have to be held right now, even better, without expecting October 31st? Let's see, vaccination. Zimbabwe is being vaccinated, Ukraine has not been vaccinated a few days ago. Now, vaccination rates are going to take about 100 years to get the Ukrainians out. Again, 100 years. I have a question: where's the Chinese vaccine that we paid almost a billion dollars for? It's quiet about her. Where's the Pfizer vaccine? It's quiet about her. Instead, we paid a new 1.5 billion dollars, not even AstraZeneca, but some Indian copy of AstraZeneca, which we are now inoculating citizens with. But again, at a rate of 100 years. The second question. Today, we may have lost a calendar in the Office of the President. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, the spring started again, today we have March 2nd: where are the landings? Who will sit? Where will your deputies, the bribes, sit? They're sitting in the session room. Tatarov is sitting at the President's Office, and the German is sitting at your meetings on the right. Where are the landings in at least two years? Where is the end of the poverty era that you promised us? Where's all this? In these circumstances, we need to ask one question today, not in the Berdian region of Zaporozhye, but in the new election of the President of Ukraine, who in two years has completely failed, has been using noodles in the ears of Ukrainians and continues to abuse them. Today we pay for this even with the lives of our people during the pandemic. Get out of here. We're running a reelection.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the following speakers to speak with you about the appointment of the successive elections of the Kolarov village head of the Berdian district of Zaporozhye. Because that's what the Rules require. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u40	Sussun Inna Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u41	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Respectful colleagues must be appointed. Where there are no city heads, we need elections to be made. At the same time, I don't understand why we're assigning elections in small populated areas, and in the second largest city of the country, in Kharkiv, we haven't yet appointed elections? At the same time, let's be honest, we have a lot of questions about who is running Kharkiv right now, where there are more than 2 million Ukrainians. And I'd like all the deputies to think about how and when the elections in Kharkiv will be held. Especially considering that the entire majority party is represented by all Harkov's Marjorie deputies, I would like all the Harkow MPs to unite and do everything they can to ensure that the elections in Kharkiv take place in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u42	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Road of Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u44	Please, Bakumov Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u45	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I would like to support the words of Inna Sowsun in connection with the situation in Kharkiv, and also to draw your attention to the need to choose a new Kharkiv city head in Kharkiv. And the territorial community of Kharkiv has the right to make its choice. Today, there is a correspondence between the Parliament’s committee of profile and the local authorities in Kharkiv. To this day, however, the Council has no draft Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the City of Kharkiv. I am sure that the vast majority of the deputies representing the city of Kharkiv understand and know that Kharkiv must choose a new city head. I call on Kharkiv local authorities, the secretary of the Kharkiv City Council, members of the Kharkiv City Council to prepare a full list of documents and direct it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can appoint the next election in Kharkiv. And this is a draft decision that we will clearly support and assign to the appropriate village head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u46	National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of Fatherland. Then one more minute, Coltunovich. That's all I can see. The Queen's, and then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u47	Sobolje, Fatherland. Undoubtedly, the "Fatherland" faction will support the ruling in connection with the death of Kolarovsky's village head. But the same situation for Lubashov was illustrated by the illustrations of Kharkiv. So let's not selectively do this. But the question is a little different. Dear colleagues, you know what you voted for 10 minutes ago!? Now every citizen of Ukraine (and this will be responsible for every faction that voted for it) is obliged to make a declaration by paying a tax of between 5 and 7 percent on everything you give. You, therefore, have declared everything free, and Ukrainian citizens will be obliged to do so for money! The other one. All those holding the currency now will be obliged to declare it and transfer it to the national unit or to deposit it in the bank of Ukraine. You voted again for that. So you keep everything in currency, you look at the declarations of all the MPs, and you make the citizens transfer it to the national currency or put it into the bank. It's not tax amnesty, it's tax degradation of the country! You enter the police regime, and you will continue to strangle everyone. And the last. You're still giving FOPs. Couldn't we have done that in other laws? When they all went out on the street, you were good. Look what you voted on the FOPs for inclusion in the agenda. It's actually a police state. Who wants to live like this, go to North Korea and live there! Ukraine is a free state, and it will not live by the laws of North Korea! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u48	Royal Natalia Yuriovna. After this. Is there anything you want out of motive? Shahov, I see. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, it's very good that we're assigning elections. But I want to remind everyone in this room that there were no elections in the 18 united district communities of Donbas. That is why Parliament must first address this issue and give people the right, namely 500,000 Ukrainian citizens who have been deprived of their right to vote, to have their right to join the local authorities. Also in the two district councils of Lugansk and Donetsk, elections were not held either, and it is our duty today to allow people to choose the heads of district councils and district councils. And you and I understand very well that by banning channels, denying people the right to hear the truth, you are also depriving them of voting rights today. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" reminds you that you have to assign elections first and renew your speech rights on all channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u51	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". A short - term and power that works to the detriment of its people. Dear colleagues, there are two governors, the heads of the military-civil administrations of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, and in the Lugansk region there are nine heads of the military-civil administration who are simply robbing these areas behind the shield of war, burning the area and the lives of the people -- no one is punished. In the city of Severodonetsk and Lysichansk, there were elections in 2014 when the war began, and so on and so forth. Today you have a peaceful sky above your head, today you need people to stand their ground, and so far the head of the Haidei Military Administration is robbing the Luhansk region, Severodonetsk for 465 million dollars, Lisichansk for 267 million dollars. No water, no light, no kindergartens, no schools! So in this case, we're not going to support this decision until we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u52	Ready to vote? Shall we do the test vote again? I understand that this is going to vote, the question in another way, so that everyone gets used to this process. Vote? Let's do one test and then vote. Ready to vote? The test vote is one. Once again, the sensory button, then, when the vote starts, clicks on the pros button, or "against" or "restraint". Please vote. [[11:44:08]] For 273 Decision taken. Not accepted. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Kolarov Rural Head of the Province of Zaporozhye (October 31, 2021) (Registration No. 5168). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:44:48]] For 335 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Order on the appointment of the Maloljubashan Rural Head of the Plains region. Needed Discussion? No discussion? Discussing? This is your faction, isn't it, colleagues? No, or they all say, or. Let the committee take the floor, and let's move on to the vote. Is there no objection? Discussing? Okay. Then I put to the vote a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:45:56]] For 260 Decision taken. Please welcome the Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Zagorujko Alina Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, has already considered, according to tradition, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development at its meeting on February 25th this year, the issue of the appointment of the local council to the Malo-Lubbassian Rural Leadership Committee in connection with the timely cessation of powers of the respective head on the basis of the requirement of part one of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. My colleagues, again, I remind you of the position of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5, 194, 195 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code. All these normative acts say that elections are held twice a year, on the last Sunday of March and on the last Sunday of October, and are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than the 90-day term from the day of the early termination of local heads, but no later than 60 days before the election day. Taking this into account, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint the Maloljubashan village head elections for Sunday, October 31, 2021. I'd like a colleague to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u54	Thank you. Please have a seat. Sign up for speeches by MPs and groups if they are desirable. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u56	The Prince? Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Here I was asked essentially to participate in the discussion, so I want to talk about it essentially. Guys, today we have March 2nd, we're assigning an extra election on October 31st. And it has to be admitted that this was a serious mistake, and the Electoral Code provides only two dates for the election out of turn: one at the end of March, the other at the end of October. And now, at the end of March, there will be elections, and they could be scheduled in 60 days. But somehow this was not done. Although all the documents were in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And here we have to figure out whose fault this is. Apparatus' guilt, committee guilt, or someone may not have made it to the Supreme Council, the session room. Because it's a nuisance, sorry, please. We've deprived people of the ability to quickly pick their heads and boards. It's their job, and it's their TV set up and run the elections, their people will vote, they want to do it, they want to do it at any time. That's why we need to solve either some line for the committee and for the Apparatus to set, or go back to the old norm, according to which the elections were appointed by Parliament in 60 days on any Sunday that went into the 60-day period. And it was normal, for many years, there was no complaint about it. We made some concessions, although the opposition objected, for some reason the Central Election Commission made this proposal, although the Central Election Commission has no relation to the implementation of the local elections. So, guys, let's not take this story as a passing story, this is a very important and responsible story. It's a disgrace to Parliament when we're assigned in March, instead of being assigned in March, to the October elections. And on this ground will be serious manipulations for the future. So I ask you very much that this kind of practice and today's precedent be the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u58	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u59	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today we are talking about elections in separate cities. I want to point out once again that there have been elections in the Donbass in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions since 2014, in the 15th year, in the 17th, 19th year, and in the presidential and parliamentary years, but there are no district council deputies there today who can be the custodian of the looting of Donbass, the fuse and give to the raiders of the governors who are robbing these areas today. Second, Natala Kraljevska noted that there were no elections in 18 communities today, but mainly in the large cities of Severodonetski and Lisichanski, which were 50 kilometers from the collision line. We demand that people be allowed to choose their deputies as normal, as "fresh," who will normally control heads and budgets so that there will be no robbery of billions of dollars as is going on today. We demand a temporary commission of inquiry to verify all the state funds that have been robbed by the two governors of Donetsk and Lugansk, the heads of the military and civilian administration. Also, the interim commission of inquiry will fully note why mining kindergartens today are closed right where today’s depressed zone, where people are suffering, every ball today is used to make children fall under the table on a holiday day when something is happening there. We demand immediately from each faction a date per person and an audit of all these areas and an election in all communities. People should have their constitutional right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u60	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Continued with what the previous speaker said. Of course, we will support this draft decision, and all of the five that apply to this subject that we are voting on now. But look, really, it was said. Zaporizka, Ravenska, Ternopilska, Lvivska, Vinnitsk Region, Lviv Region – we are now holding or appointing elections in these regions. But what is selective? That we are not holding elections and what my colleagues Royal and Shahov said about 18 united territorial communities in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk regions: 10 OTG is the Donetsk region, 8 Lugansk. Five hundred thousand voters have no right to choose their district councils. We insist that, in addition to these five, we also consider soon a draft decree on the appointment of elections to the Donetské and Luhansk district councils, which have not changed, as they have said, in fact over the last seven years. That's the first one. And the others. I'd like to pay attention, just as I've seen, to the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development. So we have a very big problem right now in places, and I would like to ask the profile committee to pay attention to it in terms of increasing differentiation and inequality in the socio-economic development of individual regions. We see, in some regions, wages are one and a half times higher than, for example, in Kiev or, for example, fewer and a half times smaller than in Kiev and in a number of regions. On the contrary, tariffs exceed Kiev’s rates. It's not supposed to be in the national economy. That's the first one. And second of all, what I can't help but focus on is reducing the share of local budgets and inter-budget transfers. Notice, too, that these incomes are on the spot today, they are also declining in the budget, and this should not be under the terms of your decentralization. I'll say again, we'll support it, but give me a draft decision on Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u62	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. After this Batenko. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u63	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland, Equinox. Dear colleagues, it is a symbolic consideration of today’s issue, and it is very sensitive that we are considering the decision to appoint elections in the Lubashiv united territorial community in the Cotopil region. The leader of this OTG, who went out of his way, was a very bright and decent man. I'll say more, it was the big manager with the big letter. It's a huge loss not only for the equal local self-government, it's a huge loss in general for Ukraine. Because even in the recent elections to the local authorities, he had no competitors because he was the only one registered in the community and won over 80 percent. Victor Frolovich Talaschuk is a huge manager with great experience. I mean, unfortunately, the election was delayed on the committee. And it was possible to hold elections in March months, but at the same time, thank you at least for being assigned to the fall. Because people are already waiting to go and get the head of the local community. And I also want to say that today, in the order of the day that we voted with you, disgraceful things have arisen in relation to the first declaration tax. Such practices have not yet been found in world or European governance. Since this is such a disgraceful phenomenon that when industry falls, when employment and labor markets fall, you, the authorities, try to tax individuals, each Ukrainian, and complete the income portion of the budget. This is not how government mechanisms should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u64	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. After that, the Gethmans were motivated. And let's go to the vote. Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is not a formal question, my friends. I support my fellow national MP, Ruslan Knazevitch, who spoke of the fact that we do have shortcomings in electoral legislation. And we will certainly have to go back to it to correct this error, because electoral legislation has to meet the requirements of time and mobility. Of course, we cannot allow it, but this is true when communities after six months and more wait for the election of the new heads of the united communities. On this occasion, we will certainly vote in favour. All these elections refer to people who have gone to the light. I also think we're going to go back to this question once in a while, because we're going to have a lot of reelections, mistrust that are going to be advertised to some of the heads of the community. Therefore, I think it is time for us to scrutinize electoral legislation in order to quickly resolve these issues of reelection of the heads of the united territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u66	From the motives, the Gethmans, a minute, and we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, thank you. Of course, I will support this beautiful decision that we are discussing right now, how I will support the legislative initiatives that we have included in the agenda with the first questions, which are indignant to our colleagues today. It's about tax amnesty, I'm stressing voluntary tax amnesty. Not compulsory, but voluntary. Under 5 percent of all Ukrainian citizens, the resident can declare his wealth and use it for life rather than avoid taxing for 30 years, as was the case in the country. We allow people to forget their dark financial past, take risks, and start a new financial life with a clean sheet. To those who criticize this decision, please try opening a bank account abroad or in Ukraine and proving where you have received the funds. This is already a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I address everyone. What you're talking about right now has nothing to do with the selection of out-of-order elections. There was a time for the speech, and I'm now addressing all my colleagues who are doing the execution. I'm going to put this to a vote. There's a proposition, we have four decisions, let's vote for a break and take a break. We can continue if we don't. I am voting for a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of Maloljubashan Rural Head of the Ravens region. Ready to vote? Ready? Please. Wait, wait. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:00:36]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I will put three more rulings to the vote. Is there no objection? I bet. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of Terebovljen City Head of the Ternopil region (Registration No. 5170). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:01:16]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm voting for a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the Lipovec City Head of the Vinnitsky district of Winnitsk. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Dear colleagues, hold the button to the end because you can see that you're taking your finger away. [[12:01:48]] For 337 Decision taken. And the final verdict is the draft of the ruling. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the Komarnov City Head of the Lviv district of Lviv. (Registration No. 5172) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:02:23]] For 332 Decision taken. Thank you. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, there will be a second reading here, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Let's get to work. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. You have been invited to consider a draft Act amending article 259 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for knowingly false reports of the threat to the safety of citizens. It's a second reading. Registration number 3911. The chairman of the committee’s committee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on the papers? Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, 2rd row. It doesn't matter. Surkis Grigory Mikhailovich, 10 revisions. Don't insist. 11th Amendment, Reverend. Surkis. Frolow. Don't insist. Look, to vote, you need to have enough votes in the room. Now we're going to go straight. Do you support me? Dear colleagues, are you ready? We're not gonna run the tests? We won't. Shall we? Once, huh? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the test vote. It's not a signal, it's a test because we don't look at the law. One request: to vote in favour so you can see who's working, who's not working. Ready to vote? Please vote. I'll remind you, sensory after that. Please vote. [[12:38:53]] For 218. Colleagues. Again? Again with the test vote. Do not let go to the end, you can see clearly that you leave the button. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:39:29]] For 221 Vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 259 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the increase of liability for knowingly false reports of the threat to the safety of citizens (registration No. 3911). Ready to vote? Once again, the sensory button, after that, the button you choose, "for", "against", "restraint," but hold on to the end. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:40:30.]] For-286 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on Taxing of Household Subjects which implements investment projects with significant investments (second reading) (Registration No. 3761). The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to the rostrum. Colleagues, who's gonna insist on editing? No one insists on editing? You want me to vote? Who, Puzichuk? What adjustments? Please turn on the Puzichuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u70	Dmitry Alexanderovich, I have eight unaccounted for amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u71	Give me three minutes, Puzichuku. Stay put, then we'll start voting. You just came back from break.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u72	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! This project is derived from the so-called "investment" Act, a law aimed at destroying Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Instead of supporting a national producer, the Ukrainian Parliament favours foreigners. The reasons for this are self - examination. The "investment" law was a framework law, and now we're looking at changes to the Tax Code. These changes set specific tax benefits for investors with significant investments. And, attention, the benefits are set for 15 years, by 2035 foreign investors will not pay import duties, VAT, income taxes. Whose interests do the authorities who pressure Ukrainian entrepreneurs by taxing them with dragon taxes while at the same time freeing them from the taxes of foreign investors for 15 years? You'll think about where the country of the world still adopts legislation that destroys Ukrainian small business and gives preference to the big business where it happens and to foreign business for 15 years. A small entrepreneur must pay the VAT to bring a sewing machine into Ukraine. And if any large factories were to be built by foreigners, they would be freed from all of this. And the explanation, Danilo, why 15 years? Why, then, is there no justification, why do you give such preferences for 15 years? You personally destroyed a small business. We've seen, 10,000, 100,000 shares that have been going around the country for more than a year to protect small entrepreneurs. Explain why loyalty is so important. Why such love for great foreign investors and the destruction of Ukrainian entrepreneurs? Colleagues, please put to the vote. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please put to the vote my amendments: 8th, 26th and 56th. With these amendments, I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u73	Wait. Again, 8th?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u74	8th, 26th and 56th. With these amendments, I propose that we reduce the credit gap to 2025 so that the impact of these tax benefits can be assessed. Colleagues, please support my corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u75	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u76	Thank you for your amendments and your participation in this bill, and for your comments on me and my role in destroying small business, which has actually increased by more than 20,000 entrepreneurs during the 20th year. So I think my role is in this too, and thank you for her assessment. As for 15 years. Let us carefully read the text of the law. It's not about the 15-year benefit, it's about the benefits that can be paid over the 15-year period of this project, and it's about the income tax not more than 5 years, but all the benefits together are up to 30 percent of the amount of the investment. That's the logic of the bill. A large investment of 20 million is being paid off by the State in various forms. Absolutely normal offer, position, the President's project, which I propose to support. Thank you. And the amendments are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u77	Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Ready? Do the tests have to be done? Ah, repairs. Edit No. 8 Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[12:47:06]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, well, there were 94, someone let go earlier, well, I saw. Ready? Amendment number 26. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. The committee is not supported. [[12:47:38]] For-96 The decision is not taken. It's number 56. The committee is not supported either. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. Puzichuk's right. [[12:48:05]] For-89 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter XX of the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation of economic entities that implement investment projects with significant investments (Registration No. 3761). Ready to vote? I remind you again, please hold it to the end, or it won't work. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:49:09]] For 246 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 207, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Future Party" – 15, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 18, "the Non-Factional" – 6. Thank you. The next draft law is the draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 3762). The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Pussychuk? Please turn on the Puzichuku microphone. How many bars?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u78	Dmitri Alexanderovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u79	How many rights are you going to put on the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u80	I've got two minutes and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u81	How many lines do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u82	Three.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u83	Then a minute. Give me a minute and let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u84	Overrun time, please. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, I'm reading the bill very carefully, just like the whole "Fatherland" faction. And again. Foreign investors are now being released for 15 years from import duty until 2035. Danilo Alexandrovich, 15 years Ukrainian entrepreneurs will pay import duties, and large foreign companies will be released. These are unequal conditions, these are violations of the Constitution. There can be no preference for anyone in this country. All business has to work on an equal footing. If our industry plans to do renovations, factory reconstructions, they have to pay the import duty. If a new factory is created by a foreigner, he will be released. These are totally unequal conditions. So I ask you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u85	Vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 3762). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations the draft Law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 3762). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:53:05]] For 256 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, we're not out of quarantine yet. Please put on your masks. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code (as regards the increase in the minimum amount of alimony applied to a child from other family members and relatives) (registers 3881, 3881-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:54:14]] For 253 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Watras Volodymir Antonovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u86	People's Deputy Volodymyr Watras, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Head, dear colleagues, respected compatriots! It is proposed that you consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code (to increase the minimum amount of alimony applied to a child from other family members and relatives). Today, article 182 of the Family Code provides for a minimum guaranteed child - to - child alimony rate, which is drawn from her father and mother, who cannot be less than 50 percent of the living minimum for a child of appropriate age. But we should not forget that family legislation provides for additional subsidiary alimony obligations that arise if alimony is not available from those who are obliged to pay it first, that is, from their parents. The responsibility of receiving them rests with other family members and relatives — grandparents, grandparents, great - grandparents, brothers, sisters, stepmothers, stepparents, and so forth. It should be noted that the minimum child alimony for 2002 - 2017 was the same as the child’s alimony obligations and alimony obligations for other family members and relatives. At first, this was one tax-free minimum, then 30 percent of the minimum income, and only in 2017 did the Supreme Council, increasing the minimum alimony size for children who are drawn from parents, leave the minimum alimony that is drawn from other family members and relatives out of sight. This situation was allowed by the legislator either for reckless reasons or for other reasons, which, in our view, discriminated against children in various forms of alimony obligations, since article 272 of the Family Code should have been amended accordingly, setting the same minimum alimony size for all children regardless of the contents of alimony obligations. The main task of the law is to establish the only minimum size of alimony and thus to ensure the stability of family legislation. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues. Please uphold the law that is really necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Antonovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Royal Natalia Yuriovni, the author of the alternative bill. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u88	Respectable colleagues, distinguished audiences, the subject of social support for children and families with children for Ukraine today is very, very relevant and very acute, because we have demographic trends just scary, especially in the last few years. And if in 2014, in our country, mortality was 1.3 times higher than birth rate, then in January-November, last 2020, more than two times more. It's just a catastrophic situation. Thus, today the State’s special responsibility is to ensure a reliable income and level of social support and protection of childhood, motherhood, and family in our country. In this regard, we should focus on settling issues related not only to alimony payments but also to the extent of temporary government assistance to children whose parents are evading their responsibilities. And also, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that for almost seven years, we have not been able to review or index payments at the birth of a child. What are we waiting for? Children are now twice as young and are now motivated by young families to take responsibility because of the great poverty in our country. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" prepared this alternative bill, where we're more involved in paying both alimony and child care payments and payments to those families who can't support their child. And we also insist that all child pay in the country be indexed. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u89	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy to Tetjani Vasili Ryabusi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy reviewed Bills 3881 and 3881-1 at its meeting on November 18, last year. As has already been pointed out, the bill proposes to unify the amount of alimony applied to a child, regardless of the payer of such alimony. These include alimony from grandparents, siblings, and underage children who do not have a mother, a father, or a parent who is unable to provide them with adequate maintenance for good reason. The size of such alimony is proposed to set at least 50 percent of the child’s living minimum. The alternative bill 3881-1 also proposes to determine the minimum recommended size of such alimony at 1 subsistence minimum for children of appropriate age. It is legislative to fix the amount of temporary government assistance to children whose parents are evading the obligation to support a child at the rate of 50 percent of the subsistence minimum for a child of appropriate age. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Committees on Budget and Youth and Sports, mandated by the Supreme Council for Human Rights and the President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, supported Bill 3881 and commented on Bill 3881-1. The main scientific and expert office has made a number of comments on drafts that can be taken into account in the second reading. The Committee on Humanity and Information Policy supports the idea of bills on the need to unify and establish at the legislative level the minimum amount of alimony that is sought for the benefit of the child regardless of the payer of such alimony and the minimum amount of temporary assistance to children. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then I'm going to ask you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u92	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I give the word to Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u93	Sergei Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u94	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we need to think about where the orphans come from, where the children come from without the parents and draw conclusions. Why is there a Ministry of Happiness in China, and we have all the ministries of "happiness"? Please tell me why people are fleeing the country today, and how are at least 1 million 700,000 displaced persons without jobs? Children today cannot be placed in kindergartens, at school. Where Can Parents Get Money Today? When we went abroad. Why Are Families Divorced? Because Father went to Moscow, Mother went to Poland or vice versa. We need to find out where to get the money in the state today for the reconstruction. And we have destruction all over the country. Why aren't our drafts today that the Trust Group is asking you to put to the vote? For example, Bill 2070, which was written a year ago. You put these votes in the local elections in front of the districts -- whether there should be an economic free zone for Donbas to invest in Donbas. So I'll tell you what, I need you to do it, but I need you to take the Iron Faberge and put it to a vote and then develop Donbas. And once again, even though one piece of money goes into Donbas transatlantic companies, believe me, the war can end very quickly. And the main thing is that the heads of the military and civilian administrations don't get robbed, they take care of the families. From Lysicanska writes to me in Facebook a woman who burned down a house, four children, and is also struggling with apartments, and a military-civil administration, the head of the Lysican military-civil administration, is not helping at all because there is no money. Where are the 267 million dollars, who stole them, who's gonna investigate it??
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u95	The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u96	Mr. Chairman, may I have the floor to present to Mr. Knyazevitch, Ruslan Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u97	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u98	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, surely our faction will support this bill, at least in the first reading. For the second reading, we will work together to prepare appropriate suggestions. I'm the only thing I don't want to get into trouble right now, but I don't agree with the author of one of the bills, the first of the bills, that he thinks there might have been some point in changing the 17th year, that we only made the right changes in 182 articles, and we forgot to make it 272. It was indeed a mistake. We think we're admitting now that it was a mistake. And there's no need to discuss it now, just fix it. Because, really, leaving at 30 percent of the cost of living minimum payment of alimony for non-parents, if parents are not able to make alimony properly, that's unacceptable discrimination in relation, first, to parents, and secondly, it's unfair in relation to a child, and that's the main thing. Finally, the State must also bear a moral responsibility in this regard, as it would have to supervise such things. In view of these circumstances, we thank the authors for noticing these flaws that have arisen because of technical reasons, such as those of me. And certainly ready to join in correcting and improving them. Thank you. We will support him in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u99	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Eutuska, the faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues in this room, it is very good that in recent years there have been various suggestions about what we have to do to protect our children socially. One of our colleagues said the following things about the absence of foreign children. I want to be honest with you and I, together, have increased our responsibility for those vicious alimony payers who have avoided payment, thereby causing social harm to our children. The fact that today’s initiators of the bill are taking such a good initiative is very good. Because we have to make it clear that the harmonious development of each child should take place at the expense of those people who, in any event, should pay and give development, the same harmonious development for the child. I recall there was a lot of talk in this room about the need to pay for help at the birth of a child. In fact, I remember the government of Julia Timoshenko, who, as Prime Minister of Ukraine, initiated for the first time in Ukraine payment for the first child, for the second child, and so on. And that all led to us having a very positive dynamic. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that in today’s educational environment, we do not have a consistent basis for Christian ethics, since that is where the foundation of a normal Christian family is laid, which will not result in such sad divorce statistics according to marriage statistics. So, your honorary colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill and ask the entire room to join as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u101	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Are there any other speakers? Crash course, I see. Anyone else want to speak? Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we all know that children are our future, and of course we need to raise social guarantees to ensure that our children develop fully in the state of Ukraine. But the question is, and as a major MP, I can stress the tremendous number of references from parents that they can't in any way draw alimony from the other parent. This is a crazy problem today. And no matter what, we're going to raise from 30 percent to 50 percent, this situation is not going to change. For example, today’s executive service cannot draw alimony from a father if he is working informally or if he is constantly migrated around the country or outside the country. The same applies to the other side. So we need to consider not only increasing this social security and the number of alimony, but the question is how to draw them from their parents. Because today it's a huge problem, and so many children don't get alimony at all, especially sick children, and it's going to be a priority for us to solve. We support, and the parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the bill in the first reading. But we're proposing a series of rights to improve it, and yet, until the second reading, it solves more problems that exist today, with payment and alimony for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for reasons such as Shufrich, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, we support this bill, there is nothing brighter than our children, and everything that will help them today in the conditions of poverty will be supported. But, dear fellows, I would like to bring to your knowledge of our journalists, to the well-known public, that the two factions of "The Opposition Platform for Life" and "Trust" require a real break now, a statement that we've handed over. We want to discuss the circumstances under which Ukrainian independent television channels are closed today, even a television channel that has already been created by journalists themselves. We will stand for democracy and freedom of speech, and we are interested in the faction leaders' opinion of this abyss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u105	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Please tell me, is this something to do with the alimony bill? Directly, I can see. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code (to increase the minimum amount of alimony applied to a child from other family members and relatives) (registration No. 3881). Ready to vote? Once again, don't forget to use the sensor button and hold it to the end, please. Ready? By the end of the vote, absolutely correct, Mikhailovich. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:12:28]] For 339 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there has been a statement of a recess, a real recess, asking to gather the leaders of the MP factions and groups in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. There's a break at 13:45.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Please take your seats. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the development of the Institute of Ageing (registration number 4535). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I remind you that voting is done by means of a sensory button, and it is important to keep the button until the results of the vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:47:40]] For 233 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bezgin Vitaly Yuriovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u107	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The question of whether we need to develop an old age institution is generally rhetorical, not as much for us as it is for local self-government. This bill is not a project of individual deputies, it's not a committee project, it's really a joint work of a committee of profile, a department of profile, an Association of Local Self-Government Authorities and, in fact, experts. It basically contains four key things. The first thing is that, of course, the heads of the community are the representatives who are the most responsible, it's political-government, but they still have to not abuse the term "parasactists," and they have to hold prior consultations with the community about the appointment of a certain age. The second position relates directly to the fact that we remove the imperative of compulsory participation of old age in the performance. We realize that this is now a big problem for large communities that, because of this, don't want to appoint an old age to not turn performances directly into their own council, where instead of strategic issues, the issue of one part of the community will be resolved. The third thing is our attempt to set the framework directly the size of the mayoral district. Now the situation is that we have 67 people in the smallest mayoral district, and the largest is 11,000, three times more than the average population in Ukraine. That's why we set the framework, usually 1.5 thousand, understanding that we have to have exceptions for mountain communities, for communities in low population density. And the last norm is the inability to reconcile positions directly, because we understand that this is still a representative mandate. I actually know that this bill is supported by almost all professional associations, so I would like to support it on the basis of the possibility of working on and taking into account the comments that have already been made by certain experts and certain representatives of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u108	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government and local self-government, regional development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriy Andriyovich. Please, Andrew Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u109	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the development of the institution of old age (4535) was discussed at a meeting of the committee on January 27, 2021. The Committee's findings were made by a Committee on Budget Issues, which believes that it will not have an impact on the budget indicators, and by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, which has led to a number of observations and proposals, essentially, on the subject of project regulation. As a result of the general discussion, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, and article 116, part two, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the development of the institution of seniority as a result of the consideration in the first reading to be adopted on a basis, shortening the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to it in preparation for the second reading. The Committee also decided to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce the need for proposals and amendments to correct the clarifications, to remove errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill, other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, it is urgent, and to vote in favour now. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u110	Thank you, Andry Andryovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? If so, please sign in: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u111	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u112	Please, Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u113	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Larissa Bilozer, Trust MP, Winnitzkin. Indeed, this question of the development of the institution of old age needs finally a legislative settlement. We all know that in these elections of old age, there were no elected persons, there were changes to the Electoral Codex. In fact, there would be nothing if it hadn't been for such a situation that most parties are actually here in the Supreme Council. I think it was such a party, cartel plot: they took and dropped the partition to 10,000 people. So there were party lists in the population of 10,000. And what do we have today? That most communities, small communities, are not represented by council deputies. According to these old men, who have been appointed rather than chosen, they have already been called "parasatists." So this law is important in that, even though public consultations will be held, public debates will be held in order for the head to present the very person that people want. Of course, this law doesn't completely solve this problem, because in any case it can submit once, and the council may not vote on whether or not to agree with the council. So this situation will still be open. And we're not completely crippling these conflicts. Next. Here's the question that the mayor can't be in execution. This issue must be removed and made possible, at least for the councils to make decisions, because very important matters are being resolved. And here, I think, we're going to reach consensus. The Trust Group will support this bill, but it will apply. So, honourable colleagues, I urge you to support a bill that awaits all the local self-government and community residents who want representation on the council of the people who are from their small villages and villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u114	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u116	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u117	Thank you so much for your statement. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I recall very well the discussion that took place in this room during the consideration of amendments to the Electoral Code. And then I personally warned myself about what had happened. I warned you that the abolition, the abolition of the old age institution, would lead to a huge fundamental problem that we now have. That is, representational problems. So now it's illegal for you to actually make it legitimate for the elderly to represent the interests of the community and perform any representative functions, because it does not have a representative mandate. It's a person, an institution that doesn't have that kind of authority. But you're still expanding the vast number of powers that he has to carry out as representative. And frankly, you're putting a mine of unconstitutionality right now with this bill, and I don't know if it's conscious or unconscious. What's more, you're moving on. You realize that the acts that he's going to issue, they're even if they're not stipulated by law, but it's going to be some actual control powers that you're writing about, you have to react to, including acts, they won't be executed because they're unconstitutional and illegal. And it would be good if we were to be honest about what's really the reason for all of this. The reason lies in a very simple piece of this bill. You anticipate the possibility of discretionary powers regarding the early termination of powers by councils, for no reason, without any explanation. So you're actually eliminating this institution. And you have to admit that. It's not enough that you deprive people of the possibility of choosing a mayor, that you now deprive people of the ability to influence the mayor. He will be totally dependent solely on the council's deputies and will in no way listen to the community's interests. What's with the institute anyway? Shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u118	Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, it has happened as we have warned that as a result of the administrative and territorial reform of the destructive loss, the Ukrainian village is suffering. Friends, there were 488 districts, there were 139, these are rural areas. There were 11,000 village councils, a little over 400. And what do we do now, where are the local self-governments in the village in 30,000 villages? They invented old age. What is an elder? Come on, what's the function? And the function is assigned to this mayor, accountable to the superior head, and not to the executive. Friends, then, who are the 30,000 villages and villages we choose in these depressed villages? Is that local self-government? How can we vote for this at all? Friends, 25 years ago, the Law was passed in this room, so think about the priority of social development in the village. The sign words, the prophetic words, they sounded like this: Look, in the future, Russia will grow up in Siberia, and Ukraine is destined to grow up in the village. A quarter of a century later, we saw that as a result of tragic events, the industry suffered devastating losses. Who took the export, the foreign exchange, the balances, the stability of the bracelet, the food security? The village is occupied by an agro-industrial complex. Now we put a fat cross on these things. What farming when these villages, which have become depressed, destroys all social infrastructure? Guys, what are we doing? But agriculture will not die; latifonds and agrohöldings will develop. There are 4 workers working for a thousand hectares. What farming, my friends? What are we doing, what boomerang we're launching, and how is he coming back? Let's stop! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u120	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u122	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. Our faction will not support this bill because it is contrary to the Constitution. There is no institution in the Constitution of old age, it's all clearly reflected in the section on local self-government and, in principle, the mayor-policeman -- this is for us Ukrainians in particular, as well as for Belarusians, not the best memories, taking into account the 1941-1945 years of our country's history during the Great Homeland War and the fascist attack on us. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the faction leaders, personally to the Head of the Supreme Council for the meeting that took place on the closure of the television channel, the end of the channel "First Independent." A decision has been taken in two committees to consider the legality of the Ukrainian Security Service and if the Committee's level of response is not sufficient, the matter will be brought back to the consideration and consideration of the heads of factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for understanding the threat of such decisions, because it can actually happen that if such actions continue, there will be a corresponding dynamic and logic and logistics of action, we will have only, perhaps, the Council and the President's Channel, and nothing else in the country will go away, as will freedom of speech and the rights of journalists. I'm going to take one more chance, and I'm going to return the debt to Peter Prashenko, who recently accused me of collaborationism, because I contributed to the departure of Jirynowski on February 28, 14. Yeah, I did it consciously, and I agreed with Pashinsky, because we've had enough. But, Petya, after what you've done with Crimea, we still need to figure out who the collaborator is! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u124	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, see, for today’s working day, this is the second question, which in any case relates to some of the shortcomings of the Electoral Codex. We voted in favour of the election of the village and city heads, and we are now voting for the old age. We will, of course, support this bill, but we understand the shortcomings in electoral legislation, especially with regard to the actual representation of the interests of the communities, because in this case we are going down to the absolute microlevel of the administrative level, which is the old age and the old-age districts. That's why I think and ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to raise such issues in the future, and they may arise, perhaps, to create a working group of all the factions and groups and to make changes and corrections to the existing Electoral Code, and to vote on it, taking into account, say, the real time that has now taken place in the Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u126	The ultimate statement of motive is Stryhar's Andrew Petrovich, and we move on to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u127	Andrew Stryharsky, 196th District, Cherkaščina Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, this initiative and my colleagues are proposing to improve the legal regulation of the institution of old age for its further development. As coauthor of the bill, I believe that it is primarily important to settle the issue of the status of old age and their responsibilities. The project has given particular attention to the issue of the establishment of the antiquated districts and the possibility of approving old age regulations by appropriate local councils. In addition, I consider it necessary for old age to be non-administrative centres in cities. So I would like to stress that the adoption of this bill will allow us to take another successful step towards decentralization of our Ukraine. So, colleagues, please support this bill, I think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u128	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Can we vote now? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the development of the Institute of Ageing (registration No. 4535). Ready to vote? Everyone remembers the sensor button? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:04:35]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is calling for a cut in time. I am voting for a proposal to cut half the time limits for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law (registration number 4535). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:05:17]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on high-risk objects (registration number 4407). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:05:54]] For 243 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Interior Heratchenko Anton Juriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u129	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Presidium, Honourable Ukrainian People! Ukraine has a path approved by Parliament and the Ukrainian people to the European Union. Therefore, we harmonize our legislation with European legislation in order to oversee security on technologically dangerous objects. This bill is designed to harmonize our legislation on the supervision of dangerous objects with European legislation. This law simply states that we are doing what is going to happen in Europe with regard to oil refineries, to factories producing various dangerous chemicals, or to anything that is dangerous to humans. The law is very simple, it is clear, it draws us closer to the European Union. And European investors will know that the work of dangerous objects in Ukraine is regulated as it is in the EU. That's why I'm asking you to support him. All the ministries, all agreed without notice, a simple, formal law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u130	The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use of Shahov, Sergei Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, you have before you a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on objects of increased danger (4407), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The European Parliament and the Council of Europe have proposed a legislative framework for the implementation of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe since 4 July 2012 to monitor the threat of significant accidents related to the use of hazardous substances and to amend and further repeal Council Directive 96/82/EC to amend the Civil Protection Code of Ukraine and Ukraine's laws on objects of increased danger, on basic principles of public oversight (control) in the field of economic activity and on the regulation of urban activities in part: to streamline the procedure for the placement of objects into objects of increased danger (identification); to reduce administrative pressure on subjects of management through the abolition of the plan of localization and the liquidation of organs of higher risk (identification), to prevent administrative pressure on entities of management, to eliminate conflicts of localization and to eliminate conflicts of powers of the public authorities; and to ensure the protection of non-security by the authorities of the public authorities and by means of regulation of regulation. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the basis of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u132	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u134	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Clearly, this bill brings Ukraine's legislation into line with European Union legislation. But, in particular, I would like to emphasize that he envisages a change from a security declaration to objects of increased danger to a security report. The bill also obliges automatic systems for the early detection of emergency situations in objects of increased danger in the first and second classes. The bill will also have a positive effect on the economic activity of entities that own, use, or exploit high - risk objects. In addition, the bill reduces the regulatory role of the State and the financial burden on economic operators. Therefore, we suggest that the bill be adopted in the first reading with its revision to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u136	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, from the point of view of European Solidarity, the draft law in general does not conflict with Ukraine's obligations under the Association Agreement and Directives 2012/18/EU. However, it does not take full account of some of its positions. We believe that this bill can be adopted in the first reading, but certain positions need refinement and refinement. What exactly is the situation? The provision of the first part of the first new edition of article 10 of the Act, under which, prior to the adoption of a civil protection project completed, the operator prepares and provides to the territorial authority, the central executive authority that implements the civil protection policy, with a report on security measures on an object of increased danger, appropriately aligns with the relevant Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation, since this law does not provide for such a duty of the operator of danger. The bill does not provide for the possibility of moving objects from one class to another, for example, if they want to modernize production. Part six of article 20 of the Directive also provides for an unscheduled inspection, which must be carried out in a timely manner to investigate serious complaints, serious accidents, and potential errors, incidents, and violations. But this position is not included in this project. The main scientific and expert office makes other remarks to the bill. So once again, I stress that "European Solidarity" will support the bill as a basis, but it will apply and require it to be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u138	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Head, please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u140	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u141	Thank you. Mr. Head, I would like to pay attention and respond, including to the report that this bill is leading our country to Europe, as Green and his government are leading our incomes to Europe and approaching. So this is kind of the same comparison. That's the first one. The other one. See what our comparative table on changes to Ukraine’s Civil Protection Code relates to. 29 paragraphs are excluded in general; they are objects of increased danger and their classification. Also, potentially dangerous objects are excluded. Article 17 of the Central Authority’s mandate to create and maintain a government register of potentially dangerous objects is further excluded. We do not oppose the implementation of the European Union's environmental directives and other relevant European legislation into domestic practice. But how are you going to implement them and implement them, including conservation measures, when, for example, in the 20th year, capital investments in the national economy fell by 38.2 percent, actually half? That's where the main resource is to implement any technology for upgrading and upgrading the core tools. So from this point of view, we insist and continue to draw your attention to the fact that any environmental, environmental, etc. measures should have a resource economic base, adequate budget co-financing, credit incentives, etc. So from this point of view, we encourage you to first introduce economic instruments through the appropriate profiling committees and then introduce appropriate environmental regulations and standards. And once again, we will not support this draft law, which excludes a number of norms that we think are ambiguous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u143	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Ukraine in the Soviet Union had only 3 percent of the territory and formed 22-24 percent of the gross domestic product. During the Soviet Union, quite a number of industrial objects have been built. And what happened during independence? See 2012: An aeration station under Kiev is a 8-10 meters deep failure. The UG, the colleagues, this is Centrnergo: the big fire that actually stopped the enterprise, 3 thousand people were waiting for this fire to be extinguished, 8 people were killed, 4 energy clouds were removed directly from the operation. Horlov factory Styrol, colleagues, 13th year: liquid ammonia leak (in 2013) Twenty-six people died. In Vasilkov, the Kyiv district of fire on the BFSM oil base, a 20km pollution zone. And many others have examples. This law is important because we divide the objects into the first, second, third class. And those first - class objects have to be tested periodically once a year. Little is involved in the operation of automatic early detection systems for emergency situations, and operators on such high - risk sites are obliged to approve internal action plans and tests. Colleagues, it's important to accept it in the first reading. Let's think about ecology and let's make sure that these businesses are completely with automated early warning systems. Importantly, Fatherland supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u144	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on objects of increased danger (registration number 4407). I hope the voting procedure doesn't have to be repeated, does it? Paul Vitaliovich, you can sit down. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:19:04]] For 317 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Law on preschool education on the territorial accessibility of preschool education (registration number 4604). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:19:44]] For 245 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, a venerable presidency, dear Ukrainians! Lord Nekludov, faction of the Servant of the People. I will not claim that the bill I have proposed is the most important, but it is important in terms of saving time to use it for the needs of the family, children, reducing the corruption risks that now accompany the process of including children in preschool education, just for the comfort of children and parents. The main purpose of the bill was to create a conducive environment for first-line inclusion in kindergartens of children living within the territorial boundaries of such facilities. It is proposed that such changes be made to the Ukrainian law on preschool education, which would ensure the territorial accessibility of pre-school education, strengthen the guaranteed right of every child to pre-school education, which is the most accessible and accessible place of residence for children and parents, to determine the number of children to be enrolled in pre-primary education. The important fact is that, after I registered with my colleagues in this bill, the Ministry of Education and Science approved the new rules and regulations on preschool education institutions, particularly the government changed the process of listing children's kindergartens, a list of categories of children who are entitled to extra credit. So this confirms that we're on the right track, and this bill is, really, in time. It is also a pleasure that the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Community and Territorial Development, the Ministry of Finance, the National Academy of Teaching Sciences of Ukraine support this bill. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading on the basis, and I hope that all of our compatible proposals will be considered and counted between the first and the second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u146	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Grishin, Ulya Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the problem of including children in kindergartens in Ukraine is long enough. At least the fact that by 2018 the government, along with the local authorities, had promised to eliminate the queues was evidenced. However, the issue has not yet been resolved, and in Kiev, for example, the parents who registered the baby in September have not yet joined the kindergarten. The second problem that we have today in this area is the lack of territorial attachment, the place of residence of the child directly to the nursery. This problem is very damaging to people in microregions who don't have the ability to count their children in kindergarten because they already have those children living in other areas. This is an abnormal situation when you need to get up with a little child in the morning and go to a kindergarten with her sometimes with the big cities of Ukraine quite a long way away. What is proposed by the bill? It is suggested that the guaranteed right of every child to receive preschool education is ensured in the garden that is most accessible to him at his place of residence. And of course, figure out the order of counting in that case in the nursery. In view of the importance and relevance of the issue, the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill on the basis of the bill and to entrust the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation with preparing it for second reading. I very much ask each of you, representatives of all factions, to support this bill, because it is really very important to our preschool children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u148	Let's move on to the question. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Natalie Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u150	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u151	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainians! The question, though, is that this bill is somewhat clearer about listing children in kindergartens, and this actually harmonizes with the idea of a new Ukrainian school with the attachment to a place of residence. The weak spots of this bill that it doesn't, in principle, solve the question of queues in gardens, in principle, because it's a matter of the number of gardens, their filling. But he also fails to resolve the question that, for example, when two parents work, this family may have a more vital garden than when only one parent is working in the family. So we're going to support it in the first reading, but by the second reading, we're going to define and suggest ways to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u152	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u153	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u154	Rostislav Mikolaiovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u155	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. The European Solidarity faction will support this project in the first reading. But we would like to stress that he will need to be redesigned for second reading, especially in parts of those categories that are defined by other laws as priority, and in particular for children with special needs. So we urge everyone to support us now. And I'm sure in the committee we'll find a version that will unite the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u156	Thank you. Keith Andrey Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Oksani Savchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u158	Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u159	Oksana Savichuk. Dear colleagues, I'm like no human practitioner who knows very well the preschool system itself, because as early as 2008, I introduced an electronic registration system to the city's preschool facilities. I want to tell you that today, when we want to tie a child’s place of residence to a living, it is wrong and wrong in relation to the children themselves. In this session room, we talk a lot about how we try to make children and their parents better. In fact, in every city, district center, and other communities, there are not enough places in preschool. And local councils are trying to make this line as transparent as possible, creating a variety of electronic transparent registrations. This law, it may be more fitting to Kiev, but it does not fit all of Ukraine. Because the key task is that children have to go to preschools, and our shared task is to make these preschools more and more. Today, local councils are mandated to pay meager wages to technical workers, educators, and energy companies. So I would ask that we do not create further problems for all parents. Because now that the child is in the garden, it is a real happiness for a family that can give the child away and parents can work. Our task is to ensure that children in communities have more places in kindergartens than to restrict their right to live locally. It's more like school, maybe, but it's wrong for kindergartens. So I'd like to ask Kiev's problems not to move to the region, because each region is a separate situation. The law needs to be redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u160	The word is given to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, National Deputy, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u161	Dear people's deputies, in fact, this bill is not going to come up with anything new, it just integrates categories such as the territorial accessibility of preschool education for citizens. Nothing new is being developed, but it's just being done by an analogy that already exists, that's for getting full general secondary education. This approach to obtaining and affordability of education already exists, but only in part. It's a bill that fails, and it solves the issue of preschool education. In fact, this bill accepts two parts. Part one is getting the right of parents or parents or guardians to know and to have a guarantee that according to their favorite place of residence they will not be denied and queued in the fifth or sixth order that, if the place becomes vacant, the child may be formed before a single kindergarten, before the first line of education. On the other hand, it is a duty and a legal basis for directors, teachers to perform their duties and to apply the principle of living in the territory and finding a person who has the right and obligation to be formed by the other party and to provide education. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support the bill in the first reading. It invites all factions to join in its deliberations and regulations to ask questions, and to solve the problem between first and second reading, and to essentially make a quality law for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u162	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please, who else wants it? I see, Konstankevitch, and after that, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u163	Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I continue my performance before this, for the Ukrainian village. And I want to say, this is the result, let's take a closer look at the lack of systems in reform, the imbalance. And once again, 90 percent of rural and rural councils, three quarters of rural areas, have been eliminated, along with large social infrastructure, including children’s preschools. Plus, the whole country's holding down is mass unemployment. Hundreds of thousands of rural families have gone to the cities, and here they are facing the next blow, and you are in the nursery at last. Double-beating in the village, twice. Guys, we're going to support this bill, but for the second reading, discrimination needs to be cleaned up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna. After that, Koleboshin, and then we move on. Are you still They're already coming from you, don't they? You didn't? Okay. Koliboshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u166	How? "Trust" stood up. Kota had the opportunity to speak, and he handed the word Sosun. Colleagues, let's not be misled. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u167	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group. Dear Society, we are like the national MPs representing our majority districts, we want to say that unfortunately, this bill in all its positive ideas will not solve the question of queues and the construction of new kindergartens. Because we have major problems in rural areas, and local self-government has no funds to deal with this problem, only these standards are problematic. That's why we support the idea of the bill, but we're going to make substantial changes and adjustments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u168	Thank you. Sergey Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, last year, you and I passed the Law on complete general secondary education, where there is territorial accessibility for primary education, i.e. for children in the 1-4 classes. Clearly, preschoolers, even younger children, cannot stay away from territorial accessibility. It is this bill that aims to regulate and this is for young children to have the opportunity, both parents and children, to go to school or kindergarten as close as possible to their territory of residence. Notice, though, that we do not anchor our children. If you'd like to go to another kindergarten, please. But we guarantee that the nearest kindergartens will be open to children. So I ask everyone to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on pre-school education concerning the territorial accessibility of pre-school education (registration number 4604). Ready to vote? Do All Remember the Procedure? Please support and vote. [[14:36:09]] For 345. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 221, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 19, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherland" – 19, "The Future Party – 17, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 17, "The Non-Factional" – 11. Thanks again. The next issue of the agenda is the bill amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes (registration number 4017). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:37:00]] For 241 Decision taken. A national MP is invited to attend. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussed. The National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienko Aleksandar Pavlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u171	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I will bring to your attention the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes (for the introduction of the honorary title "Deserved Minister of Telecommunications of Ukraine") (registration No. 4017). Ukraine's "On Ukraine's State Awards" law provides for the possibility of assigning the honorary title of Ukraine to so many sectors of the economy and professions. However, the State has not been given the opportunity to award honorary titles to workers in one of the most important sectors of the country’s economy and the modern life of society — the sphere of telecommunications. An important aspect of this field can be seen as much as possible in an example of this or past years during established quarantine and restrictive measures related to it. We've learned to work remotely, we've moved into virtual space. But behind all of this is great difficulty in ensuring the continuity and remote work of all our boyfriends, the work of our working groups, the work of our society and our country in general. These workers work 24 hours a week for 7 days. It's a small job for telecoms workers, solving complex technical issues very often in difficult circumstances. For these people, there's no concept of bad weather, strong ice, or snow. Ukrainian telecommunications workers have an undisputed right to be recognized by the state as their sector and to be granted a sectoral honorary title, "Deserved worker in the field of telecommunications of Ukraine", which is already available to representatives of many other sectors of the country's economy. It's a simple and small bill, but it's important for the telecommunications industry. So please support and enact the law on a basis and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u172	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u173	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Our committee. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Our committee discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on State Prizes on December 2, and endorsed the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft law in accordance with section one of the first and part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules on the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole, by carrying out its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office in preparation of the corresponding text at the signing of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In principle, it's an initiative of the Digital Transformation Committee, it's important. There are people who are involved in telecommunications, they're putting up cables, they're putting up high mobile connections, and all of these people deserve to be called "Deserved telecommunications worker" because they're now called "deserved employees." They're offended, they think they don't provide services directly, they're like telecommunications. On the other hand, I agree with the criticism that we are sort of increasing the number of somewhat archaic stories that we deserve. I think that one of the missions of our composition of the Supreme Council is sooner or later to reform the general sphere of state rewards and symbols. And when we deal with the urgent issues of economics, politics, judicial reform today, hopefully we can start to cope, then we can move on to state rewards. And this is the law I ask you to support as a whole. We'll give our field of dijitalization, an additional opportunity for such progress, and a reward for better workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u174	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u175	I'd like you to pass it on to Constancewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u176	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u177	The Future Group will, of course, support this bill because we understand the value of every human work, especially in the context of such an unstable market economy as it is in Ukraine. That's why we're here to at least morally, psychologically support workers in this responsible field, and to get moral encouragement for them, and for the future, so major MPs support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u178	Nesterenko Kirilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. And please pass the word to my colleague Sergei Stepa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u180	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u181	Sergey Stepi can be spoken?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u182	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u183	Oh, come on, all right. I support this bill because now we have an age, an era of dijitalization, so we have to move on and support it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I remind you, according to the Rules, you either give the word immediately, if you start the talk, you continue it. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u185	Please pass the word to the Shufric deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u186	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u187	Thank you, Mr. Head, for your comments on the law. I promise, strictly by law, to this very thing, about outstanding new names. You know, everything's new -- it's the old, well-deserved telecommunication officer of the Soviet Union. Hooray, comrades! That's about what we're doing right now, in principle, I don't mind. But we do have a title like a well-deserved journalist. Do we have a lot of telecommunication workers who weren't journalists who didn't fall under this category? So I think it's a completely unnecessary law, and now it's adopted, and it's also by law, it's abuse of freedom of speech. When you're shutting down the TV channels, now someone who's involved in their closure, like Tkachenko Alexander, Gerasimük Olga, lobbying for new titles, I think it's a crime against Ukraine, against democracy, against the principles of freedom of speech, against the journalistic profession, and against the very right of our citizens to get information. So it's totally cynical, it's not civil, it's not human, it's when you're destroying journalistic teams, it's when over a thousand and a half families of journalists, thanks to your authority, it's because of your illegal sanctions and "happy leaves" from the BSC that they've lost their jobs, someone to give deserved artists, sorry, actors, it's not human and it's just cynical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u188	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u189	Well, I can see that, the new Soviet power is a monopoly plus digitization of the whole country. But I don't understand, let's maybe not be in the middle of it, let's just complete this bill with a full program of owls and other titles. For example, the country's "deserved dijitalizer" can be added to the country's "deserved vaccine" At least we have one, maybe two. And let's do the title "deserved grand-builder of Ukraine" or "deserved tour guide." That's how much they put up and robbed, so they deserved it, let's give them the title, ladies. Or "deserved middleman," "deserved decision by Ukraine." What else? Now we have even candidates for the country's "deserved comedian." Not enough, not one. Let's take it, bring it all to absurdity and make a new Soviet Union. The main thing is digitization. In general, dear colleagues, what do we do? Are we okay in the country now? Now we've got some questions with the tariffs, and we've got an order with the vaccine that's been dropped? Well, let's do one more title, what's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u190	Krulko Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. "The Voice," who? Samantha Bobrowski. Cool. Then Bobrowski, and we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u191	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, it's very interesting to see what a serious issue we have to solve in our country's life right now is to introduce "Deserved telecommunications worker." You know, it wouldn't be so funny if it weren't so sad. I read carefully the Honorary Names Act, 37 of which we have already earned, 37. It's going to be 38th. But tell me, a well-deserved telecommunications worker is a well-deserved cultural worker, he's a well-deserved art worker, he's two people. The national and deserved artist of Ukraine – does this not cover the question of this merit? It's a bill that's nothing that spends public money and spends time on Parliament. If that's the case, let's put in a "deserved employee of the Internet" and from the age of three, let's give it to everyone to take down all the questions and they're all deserved. We're gonna stay out of this bill, he's not talking about anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u192	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u193	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Of course, the Voice faction is primarily about letting all the telecommunications workers rest, giving them the opportunity to work and not go abroad, and finally giving them the freedom to do things that they could do, particularly, to investors, and to go to the country. It would seem to me that this would be the best confession, rather than the literacy and torture of the stories we're talking about today. But I would like another question to be raised in Parliament, for example, about the title "The Hero of Ukraine," because it's a very difficult procedure to get rid of -- through trial, and then to refer to the President. So I would like to tell you, my dear colleagues, that I know at least seven people whose names I can call, who today is the Hero of Ukraine, but they serve and work in the territory. On Russian aggressors and in Crimea and so-called occupation administrations in three letters. Moreover, one of them was formerly a security officer of the Ukrainian Security Service, by the way, the task of the Security Service was to disenfranchise the title of "The Hero of Ukraine", currently headed by the so-called "LNR." That's what we're supposed to be discussing here today, and we're going to be raising questions, not what kind of literature to reward the IT industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u194	All those who wish to speak? Shahov is motivated, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u195	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill, we can reward and reward the Parliament's chief MP. But there are questions from the people. Sergey the Great, Alexander Sukhov, has just arrived from Luhansk. We've been looking at the education bill before. Please tell me someone else. I invite all the people's deputies to Rubizhny's town again, only one city left in the Luhansk region. School's closing. There's no money to keep this school going. We were talking to Minister Scarlett, we were talking to the President -- no one was paying attention. And there are also journalists, and there are people who are going to build our state. And it just shuts down. Whom do you ask people not to shut up about this educational reform, please tell them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-02-m0.u196	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. As long as colleagues are gathered, the committee recommends that the whole be accepted as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes (Registration No. 4017). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:52:43]] For 222 The decision is not taken. 222, no decision taken. I would like to place a motion for a motion for a committee to prepare for the re-reading of Law 4017. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:53:21]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing. Let's put a bill to work. The return of the subject of the legislative initiative to the redrafting of the bill is registered number 4017. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:54:09]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no point in asking questions. We have four ratifications. There's an offer, I'm not going to call the numbers now, if there's no objection, I'll bet without discussing them. Okay? Registration number 0078. Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Amendment to Article 24 of the Statute of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (Registration No. 0078). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:55:17]] For 323 Decision taken. The next bill is the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Inter-American Convention on Confirmation and Information on Foreign Law (registration No. 0087). Is there no objection? You want me to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on Ukraine's accession to the Inter-American Convention on Confirmation and Information on Foreign Law (registration No. 0087). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:56:16]] For 298 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of agenda is the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police Office. Discussing? And the draft Law on the Ratification of the Letter of Change. No discussion? I am betting on the vote on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Act on the Ratification of the Change Letter (registration No. 0076). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:57:10]] For 309 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
