ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Please prepare for registration. I'll remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green "for" button, the first button on the left, using the sensory button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:06:32]] There are 213 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we have three names: Andrew Volodymyrovich Bogdanec, Peter Vasilovich Jurczyn and Anton Volodymyrovich Yacenko. [[Applause]] Hello! I wish everyone success, strength, health, the best! Once again with the holiday! Let's get to work. Today, as usual on Tuesday, we have up to 30 minutes to perform by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with announcements, messages and positions. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich. Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians, it has been nearly two years since the Supreme Council for the first time in history has been able to radically change the country. It's time to sum it up. And it's easy to do that, because there's a universal formula for assessing the activities of any authority: if people were to live better during the work of this power, power is good, if worse, power is bad. And if the people are forced to survive by making a living abroad, the power is bad. I have a question for the majority. And how do you feel that everything you have done in Ukraine has gone to the benefit of the people? Yes, you have managed to make the earth a commodity. Hopefully you won't be able to sell it to the end. Yes, you've returned the game business. Now you're going to legalize marijuana. Tell me, other than how to play the casino and smoke, are there other achievements in your authority or not? And what do we have? We face an endless increase in tariffs, a medical disaster, education, and other areas. By closing the channels, chasing the opposition leaders, putting Victor Medvedchuk under house arrest, you only want to shut us up. You can't do that! And all the so-called urgent questions that you've killed in the last week of the Supreme Council's work are zero, zero! Where is the issue of peace that requires an immediate solution, and for which your electorate, including yours, voted? You had no place for him in your order of business. On behalf of the faction, I would like to state. We, the Opposition Platform for Life, will not be participating in your extracurricular shows with different pieces. The Faction of the FMCT will not participate in consecutive meetings until you, the majority, return to the issue of peace and stop the repression against the leaders of our party. And to other representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I strongly recommend that we think about this. It will take two more years, and you will leave the Council, and only then will you understand what you have done. Today we have two options: the first - the Council together will try to save the country, the second - to create mandates, to create and enable the people of Ukraine to determine with whom they trust the future fate of the country. We, the faction of the OPCW, are ready to do it, and immediately. Think about it!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u3	The word is given to the people’s representative, Dmitry Davidovich. Please give me your word. Bragar Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u4	Congratulations! The reform of the Police has gone far beyond what we would have liked. It began quite beautifully in the Sofia Square with a solemn oath, with glamorous pictures. These people were young and dreamed of Ukraine without corruption, a new country in which there would be no lawlessness. But their dreams were shattered by a stone of reality. They were willing to forgive unprofessionality and lack of experience. If any of you national MPs look at the Railway Road on the base of the Kyiv Police station, you'll see a lot of wrecked police cars. This is a hard reality that really is. But after two or three years of police activity, those young dreamers who took an oath in Sofia Square began writing mass release reports and in their vast numbers left the IMF system. Instead, they're starting to recruit anyone. There's a total problem in the police department. At the moment, we have a situation: the new police have not acquired a profession, but, at the same time, we have learned very quickly all the bad things that were in the old police force. They learned to steal, they learned to demand bribes, they learned to crucify. This happened to me a week and a half ago. They stopped me and demanded bribes. Then, under the circumstances, I was taken to Zaporozky, 20. There's a very serious problem -- bribes are required everywhere. And if that happens in Kiev, we can only imagine what's going on in the regions. It is very important to put an end to this total lawlessness. We can say, unfortunately, that the reform of the Police has gone to a dead end, and we need to get out of this deaf corner. Unfortunately, the reform of the Police needs to be relaunched, as the reform contained a number of mistakes that led to very serious consequences. In addition, there is a problem of corruption, there is a problem of "breaking," there are no gang-forming, which, as nationalists, is a nightmare for our business. In addition, there is a rather serious problem that no investment is made in Ukraine because no one will protect them. So, honourable citizens, if you have any similar problems, contact me as a national MP or as your national MPs who are anchored in your districts, and we will protect you. A reform of the IMF.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to Father Taras Ivanovich, the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, this is the last plenary week before the 30th anniversary of state independence, which we will celebrate soon. And we all need to think about the order of the day, the result of which we are going to the people who have contributed to Parliament in recent years, the creation of quality laws that will make life easier for our citizens in Ukraine. You know, from this rostrum not so long ago, when we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine, one of the leaders of the previous parliament said, by defining how the formula of democracy, that the formula of democracy is the people, the power of the Constitution. Although in our mind today, the term "democracy" (in paws) in Ukraine is the President -- it's power, and that's all -- it's a wasteland. Then it's the people, but the people, it's an emergency. We are following today as Parliament's role in decision-making is slowly diminishing, as the impact on decision-making in the formation of public administrations becomes less difficult for us. We also pay attention to the agenda that today, we don't see any proposals for tax liberalisation, the introduction of incentives to increase business in Ukraine, the development of production. We point out to the government that a year ago, the authorities solemnly announced the launch of a program to create 500,000 new jobs in different sectors of the economy. We all remember that, don't we, friends? Instead, the authorities have only caused an increase in the number of unemployed, and statistics today are staggering. According to the latest figures by the State, since the beginning of 2021 the unemployment rate has been 10 and a half percent, the highest since 2017. In an effort to preserve its reputation in the first year of summation, the government calls this program no different than the program for saving 500,000 jobs. It's manipulation, it's not even ironic anymore, it's just abusive to Ukrainian citizens. And it's obvious that the current government has been extremely unsuccessful in coping with shortcomings, with the effects of the pandemic in the economy, and unable to cope with the problem of unemployment, and this has to be acknowledged, that is, the government should urgently develop a new strategy to stimulate employment. This week, my friends, we are offered a number of drafts, of which 3,508 are designed to restructure debts to the NAC of Naftogaz Ukraine. Our parliamentary group is on the watch for local budgets, and we will not allow that, in fact, co-financing of this problem to rely on local budgets. Let us all work together to protect the local interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u7	The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Ustinovy Alexandri Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Golos". Dierov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I will now talk about the political prisoners and those who are now behind bars. If you don't mind, please come up to show that we're on the Supreme Council together. On July 6, the so - called court in the occupied Simferopol continued the arrest of Vladislav Esipenko for another six months. It's another six months of torture and living in inhuman conditions. Vladislav Esipenko is an out-of-office journalist for Radio Liberty. On March 10th, he worked on the stock before Taras Shevchenk was born. After that, he was detained by the Feesbeans. He is accused of working for Ukraine’s security forces and storing an explosive device. Almost a month before Vladislav, lawyers were not released, and they were tortured to break confessions. "They knocked on the floor, put wires on their ears with loops on them, and let the current go, the pain was unbearable, no one was paying attention to my screams," Vladislav writes in his letters. Sadly, hundreds of such stories are in Crimea. In the same scenario, Russia has been losing for the eighth year to anyone who does not accept its regime. The Crimean Tatar flag, the video shoot, on the phone, the repost of the publication, the Ukrainian language, I don't know what might become a crime for the occupying power. Today, more than 100 Ukrainian citizens are illegally imprisoned for political reasons in Russia and the occupied Crimea, the vast majority of whom are Crimean Tatars, and nearly 300 more are illegally held in ORDLO territory. It's not just numbers or statistics, by every name -- someone's broken life, every photo -- families that look at them and wait for their son, dad, grandpa or lover to come home. By this introduction, I call on the world community to contribute to the liberation of Ukrainian citizens: Vladislav Esipenko, Ramzi Bekirov, Ruslan Suleimanov, Seiran Saliev, Timura Ibrahimov, Mustafaev, Marlene Asanova, Rustem Sheikhaliev and Osman Aritimetov – these civil journalists from Crimea and each of the political prisoners. We are also working on a bill on political prisoners within the framework of the Crimea Platform to make integration and the return to normal life for these people as comfortable as possible. Our duty is to free our people. Crime is Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u9	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u10	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Two of the last years of the presidency have passed, and this week we can actually take two years of this Parliament's work. What did the citizens expect by choosing this parliament? Let's first figure out who brought the presidents to power. It was always a small business. And what did he get in the last two years as a small business? Tax hikes, lack of transparency, and the last drop is actually a 5 to 15 percent exchange tax due to the so-called voluntary declaration of income. The second thing agrarian business expected would be to stop raiding, legalized land to be cultivated by a peasant, a farmer, a one - man, or even a great host. How did this end? This ended with the so - called sale of agricultural land when the raids flourished more than ever. The third thing that our citizens expected, and what was promised to those who have done most of this call to Parliament and the President of Ukraine, is to order tariff policy, to make a market-based tariff mechanism in Ukraine. How did this end? In exchange for administration, for the prosperity of one-day firms or monopolies that govern the country in fact, as opposed to the government, both the President and the Parliament. The next thing the citizens expected was actually to sort out the pension system. And what did we get? The total poverty of pensioners, the attempt to increase the actual minimum pension, which is totally not in line with the minimum standard of living and the needs of citizens, and not to carry out any pension reform when the pension reform of Tihypak, when women were five years old, ended up with this, and every next authority just deepens this crisis. The Fatherland faction has once again confirmed that the issues that we have put into the agenda at least this past week could radically change the situation. Unfortunately, opposition is not heard. We will do our best to change the situation and improve the lives of our citizens. The answer is for you, the so-called majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u11	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians, Zelensky’s visit to Berlin only confirmed that the world would not fight for Ukraine. They feel sorry for us, they support us, but they will not fight for us. The only guarantee of Ukraine’s existence as a state is a strong army. But now the "green" authorities are systematically discrediting the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The long list of Zelensky’s political prisoners was completed by wartime General Igor Pavlovsky. Why was Igor Pavlovsky arrested today? For daring two boats to buy Ukrainian production, while the entire Ukrainian fleet was captured by the occupying country, when the previous ministers of the Yanukovic government were Russian Feesbečniks, and a portentous colonel, who brought Zelensky to power, sold them all to cowards in the army, to military hospitals. Green gave Putin Tzemak, Green gave Putin to the Berkuts, Green gave Putin to the terrorists of Kharkiv, who were involved in the killing of 15-year-old Didik's boy, and he's arresting our generals. Why? Because he and the green team don't have the idea of green as Ukraine did in 2014. We just returned from Kramatorsky and Slavyansk, where we similarly honored Vladimir Rybak’s memory. So, at the time, in 2014, when Vladimir Rybaka was being tortured in the B.S.U., Greensky and the "Quartal" were bending there in the Palace of Culture, and he was laughing that they had captured the Ukrainian tank. But the greens can't see what's going on in the country, they're always in the drug habit. Imagine, just in the last week, two of the people's "ministers" have been caught breaking traffic rules by drunks and drug addicts. You know, that's how it is. Zelensky began his violent activity by giving up his pocket analysis, so far the country has not seen their results, and the team has acquired the right results. We are now addressing the room with what we hear from all the voters today: each member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to pass a drug test to understand who has been picked up in this room. It's enough to actually do what you do. You promised to raise wages and pensions. So far you've only raised prices, you've only raised tariffs so far, you've just raised prices for gas, for utilities, and all your promises today are a lie. And notice how today’s order of the day forms. Here again are the lobbyist laws that give preference to the oligarchs through the totally corrupt Antimonopoly Committee Act, which you now impose on a sitting order, and there is no law that works for the people, not for "ministers of the people." Shame on you! And General Pavlovsky will be on the loose and will be on the loose. And all those who are involved in torture today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u13	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to make the most of the problems that our constituents of our group, Trust, are now talking about. It's a matter of low pension and housing tariffs. There is very little time left until autumn. The question of gas prices is still unclear, and so now the question of receiving subsidies is extremely important. But so far, a large number of Ukrainians are risking not getting them. During the first 4 months of the year, nearly 368,000 households received subsidies — only 172 thousand. They did not fall under one or the other criteria. The commissions that did this in the former district state administrations are now shut down, they're not working. And, I take it, the government doesn't plan on restoring their jobs. The criteria for granting subsidies are sometimes preposterous. For example, a man sold an apartment and bought another apartment, the same apartment, elsewhere, just changed his place of residence -- he doesn't get the subsidy, although not the fact that he's become richer and richer. Moreover, there will be no subsidy for those categories of citizens to whom the State has purchased its own housing. These are orphans and children who are deprived of parental care. Think about it. The state bought them a home and then took the subsidy benefit. The most common case is the cancellation of subsidies in public debt. What should people do if they do not pay their wages for months in the businesses they work for? Should these criteria not be taken into account? I think we should, and especially now that the country's total wage debt is over 3.5 billion dollars, and it's constantly growing. And another common case is the removal of pensioners who have prescribed working children in their home. Not that these kids are going to help their retired parents, but that's what special commissions have been looking at. To sum it up, people have nowhere to go today. In my opinion, the government should clearly define the criteria for receiving subsidies, taking into account the factors that I have just heard. Therefore, the Trust MP group formally requests the Prime Minister to review urgently the criteria for granting subsidies to low-income groups. Moreover, prior to the start of the heating season, it is imperative to hold a separate session of the Cabinet to invite governors, heads of district councils, city mayors and to discuss all issues relating to the heating season and housing and utility tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u15	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, announcing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! We have three announcements about the creation of interfractional MPs. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council regulations on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "National Platform for Reconciliation and Unity". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Grib Victoria Alexandrovna, was elected head of this association. Another announcement. Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. I'm reporting to the Supreme Council on the creation of the Ninth Interfractional People's Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Taras Petrovich Tarasenko, was elected head of this association. And another announcement for today. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I'm reporting to the Supreme Council on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Dept., Democracy 2.0, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Jehora Volodymyrovich Cherniew, was elected head of this association. I welcome my colleagues for creating interfractional MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u17	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. There was another statement for a break with a replacement for the performance. We're about to hear the chess show, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Afterwards, the agenda of the day session and the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite Ukraine’s national deputies immediately. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u18	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I would like to report to you on the report of the interfractional MPs' association "For Technological and Environmental Security in the State", which I have been leading since 2019. It was an interim meeting. And what I'm saying is that the state-owned cruiser company is still looting. The losses incurred by the Crucibles and the state, which is Ukraine's national security, in 5 years, 100 billion dollars. So far, Urzalznica is taking loans to Sberbank at 12 percent when it costs money abroad -- zero bets, we voted in favour of ratification with France at 0.00 percent. Who today robs millions of, billions of, state - owned enterprises? Today, the executive boards of the company receive hundreds of millions of dollars in damages of 12 billion dollars for Ukrzalznice. Next. That's about the moving composition. We've made four billion dollars with you, the President's presentation. The bracelet, 4 billion dollars for the mobile warehouse. So far no tenders have been made on this subject, so far they're freaking out in those offices, the officials who want to rob that money. Next. What I'm working on about environmental security, and I'm working on an environmental committee, is that it doesn't fit in any gate at all: billions of dollars are being cheated on. In no modern - day region has the soil been recycled that is polluted and harmful to humans. Next. That's about the 5 billion dollars he's ordered to pay off the V.R. Railroads. Please tell me we were approached by offshore companies that were supposed to get this money, they were giving a discount on the type of loan, but the Crucifixion didn't want -- and today they have to pay $300 million to offshore companies. Who will investigate these questions? Next. You and I are putting $40 billion in the budget next year for the modernization of the University. Who will manage this money? I am addressing the President today, every parliamentarian. I'm asking the Prime Minister to control every penny so that 40 billion dollars won't be thrown into Flight like water into the sand. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Who's speaking? Another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, today the bill on the so-called great coat of arms will be put to the vote. We all know that the reference to the great coat of arms has been extended to the Communist Constitution to underestimate the true and extremely successful coat of arms, the Trident. The trident is seen in Ukraine and the world as a full national coat of arms and, despite its ancient origin, fits perfectly into the aesthetics of the 21st century. He is simple in reproducing and recognized. In the world of such a successful coat of arms. Attempts to perfect the Trident are outright insatiable and absurd. And I support today's call by many Ukrainian intellectuals, artists, cultural leaders to the President and Parliament to refuse to try to replace Trident with a so-called great coat of arms. And it's about the replacement, starting with this room and ending with the pictures in the money. What is more, it is unacceptable to have a large coat of arms proposed by Bill 5712. Because of the violent inadequacy of the laws of the Heraldics, this painting lost all state competitions, including last year’s state competition. State symbols should unite Ukrainians and cause pride for their state, not shame and resentment. Those politicians who want to pass the law on the great coat of arms, to gain a moment of glory, must realize that it will be "the glory of the Herostra." State symbols are not a toy. Please don't vote for this decision. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to our work. You have been invited to consider the draft Order for Amendments to the Day - to - Day Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. From the procedure – Heratchenko, from the procedure – Koltunović. Then we go to the vote. Heroceno. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, as a constructive opposition, we sincerely want to help Mr. Green to fulfill one promise, particularly regarding judicial reform. And we have great concern about the formation of a day’s order, where not only does the authorities place not only opposition bills, such as our bills to support doctors, to support political prisoners and their families, because it has long been registered, but even Greensky’s bills, which he may have submitted only for a branch, on the liquidation of the Kyiv District Administrative Court. In fact, this judgment has now become such an illustration in tongues and a symbol of corruption. And Greensky's bill has been in the Supreme Council for two months now. But for some reason, most people don't put it to the vote. We believe that with such a debt to the Ukrainian judicial system, we cannot go on vacation, and we demand that this Green bill be put in place as a matter of urgency, into the agenda and this week accept it as a basis and as a whole. This cube has to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u23	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u24	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today's agenda is the draft of the Law (second reading) on the write-off of debt for individual species. for utility providers. Yet, in our view, we also insisted that there should also be a bill and a draft of our authorship on the write-off of municipal debt for individual categories of Ukrainian citizens. That's an important question. We registered this bill back in the 19th year. And we think that, given that we're writing off debt to utilities providers, and that's where it goes, it's about foam and other things, we can look at this derivative bill, and we can look at our bill to write off debt for community services to the population. Why am I updating the issue on this very bill? It will allow people to gain and benefit from subsidies, even though they currently have debt. Thank you. And I also ask you to consider this bill further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u25	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of the 30 bills proposed by the Fatherland, only one of those proposed by the Fatherland for inclusion was introduced into the agenda. Sadly, this is totally unacceptable and wrong. And that's how the right to stand in this Parliament is maintained. It's on the one side. And on the other hand, it's not in the order of the day that the laws of the Fatherland are allowed to immediately lower the tariffs on natural gas, which allow for the use of insurance medicine and so on. In fact, there is another thing that is practiced in this Parliament. The laws of the Fatherland, which were introduced a year ago, are not being considered, instead, the bills of the majority deputies, which are somehow registered with a time-limit for an alternative, are being considered, including today. This is also unacceptable, Mr. Head, I call your attention to this. If "Fatherland" has registered a bill on corporate governance, which is completely annulled by foreign supervisory boards, it should be considered as well as a bill on the corporate administration of your deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u27	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Really, thank you for always following the Rules. Thank you for your support, dear colleague. Fortunately, of the 11 bills that I hope will be included in the agenda of the session, there are authors from all the MP factions and groups that are represented in Parliament. Thank you. Everyone, yes. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4690-19). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:42:21]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] We talked about the procedure. Next question. Thank you. You are invited to include the draft Law on the Great National Herb of Ukraine (Registration No. 5712). This is a reduction in the timeframe and the order of the day session. The question is not considered in substance. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Law on the Great State Herb of Ukraine (registration number 5712). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:43:43:43]] For 243 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to cut short, introduce alternative bills before the day of the plenary. Shortening half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals, alternative bills, half the bill 5712. Please support and vote. [[10:44:32]] For 247 Decision taken. The next question of the agenda is 5719. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budgets for the Accounting of Excise Taxes for the Implementation of Subjects of Small-scale Trade in Tobacco Products (Registration No. 5719). Please support and vote. [[10:45:34]] For 237 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to declare the bill urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills by the day of the plenary session on 13 July 2021, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to include excise taxes with the implementation of tobacco retail operators (registration No. 5719). Please support and vote. [[10:46:27]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 5720). No discussion. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 5720). Please support and vote. [[10:47:12]] For 340. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 3711-d). Malijka Denis Leontijovich, Minister of Justice, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u28	Good afternoon, colleagues! The President fully supports the idea of reforming and launching the work of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. However, in connection with certain technical shortcomings and the need for correction, the veto is applied in the text adopted by the Supreme Council. In particular, the President's proposals are as follows: first, correct the key, correct the technical error that was made during the vote in favour of the law that made the confusion into the procedure for voting the competition commission, particularly when a decision is considered to be taken, and in which case, and which of the members of the competition commission voted in favour of such a decision if there are the majority of the votes of the members of the commission. The second is the need to establish what is considered to be complete if it selects at least six judges or former judges in order to ensure the independence of the judiciary, as well as to ensure the principle of legal certainty, to exclude provisions on the involvement of experts to assist the members of the competition commission, and also to ensure that the functions provided for by law, the Head of the High Council of Justice, can be performed not only by the head but also by the person who performs its functions. This is actually a brief proposal with which the law is returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Such suggestions were supported by a committee. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u29	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u30	Thank you. Of course, we all have one question, and it's quite principled: is there coordination between the majority and the President's Office and personally with the President? How can it be that you cannot find the only solution? So the question is, how many more of these things are going to happen, that we're wasting time on what you should have decided long ago not to go back to that question? Whether against individual MPs or not, if you have a majority, you are obliged to do so immediately, and this example does not adorn you as a monotony, power in general, and make you laugh about Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. I really support you, too, and I propose not to waste time, but to support the President's proposals in this room. And I also want to say that, indeed, coordination is certainly between the Parliament and the Office of the President of Ukraine, and therefore the President's proposals are of a technical nature and do not touch conceptually on the text of the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to ensure proper implementation of this law. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u32	Thank you. The next question is Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Secretary, I have a simple question to ask you: Do you know the principle of the distribution of power enshrined in the Ukrainian Constitution? And I want to remind you that, once again, under the Ukrainian Constitution, the executive power, and the Cabinet of Ministers is the executive power, headed by the Prime Minister, not the President, and he's the highest official. So why do you represent the interests of the subject, as it were, representing another branch of authority? Please tell me, are you going to represent the interests of the judiciary by speaking from the rostrum? Are you going to represent the interests of the legislature by speaking from the rostrum? And the question is, what are you doing here, Mr. Minister, if the initiator is the President? We have a representative of the President in Parliament. You represent a completely different branch of power, you're not subordinate or accountable under the President's Constitution, you're not his subordinate, you're not a colleague of the Office, so what are you doing here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. I'll explain, we've communicated this over and over in the Legal Policy Committee. The answer is very simple: I'm indicated in the President's statement, on the one hand; on the other hand, it's on the bill where the relevant bills are joint work and government, and the Office of the President, and I'm part of the commitment under which both Kabmin and the Kabmin Prime Minister of Ukraine both signed. As for the status of the President, I would also like to remind you that he is not a member of any branch of power, in terms of legislative, executive and judicial power, so it is not entirely justified to say that I represent the interests of the subject from another branch of power. Anyway, thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u35	Thank you. Please sit down, Mr. Minister. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting considered the President's proposals and adopted the appropriate conclusion on the Ukrainian President's return to Ukraine's Law on the introduction into the Ukrainian Law of Justice and the Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the restoration of the work of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine (No. 3711-d). As the President has rightly pointed out, the Minister of Justice, the President of Ukraine, has made appropriate proposals, the main one of which is to clarify the procedure for a decision to be taken by a competitive committee for the participation of international experts in the event that the commission makes this decision by a majority of votes, i.e. four out of six. The President of Ukraine has excluded paragraph 20 from the text of the law, which has made it a matter of uncertainty. Therefore, the position of the President is a principle of compliance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission on how to make a decision by a competitive commission that will help to choose the future composition of the CCW and to determine that the final text of the law makes a decision by four votes in six if at least two representatives from international organisations have voted in favour of that decision. The other proposals made by the President are also correct; they relate to the fact that, if the selection of the High Qualification Commission of Judges is not complete, and as provided for in the bill, the minimum composition is 11 members of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, there must be 6 judges in this composition in order to comply with the recommendations of the Venice Commission concerning the participation of the judiciary in the judiciary. Other suggestions are technical and relate to the fact that appropriate procedural decisions to be taken by law by the head of the High Council of Justice may also be made by the person who performs his duties. For the time being, we do not have the head of the High Council of Justice; there is only a person who performs his duties. In order not to slow down the process, the President proposed technical changes. The committee at its meeting concluded that the proposed law was right and should be taken into account. On the basis of the Committee's presentation, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine (registration number 3711-d) to be adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please support all the President's proposals and the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u37	Thank you, Andrey Evgenyovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question. This takes 3 minutes. The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u38	Thank you. Please give the word to Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u39	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, I have a question of the next character. In principle, by conceptually supporting most of the President's powers, it raises only one, more specifically, proposal. Just one suggestion that they're trying to correct in the WCCS Law a little bit the mandate of the High Council of Justice, which is not entirely correct, let's say. And on the other hand, from the point of view of the constitutional status of the IDP and its head, not quite like me, and constitutionally. Since a number of powers that belong solely to the head of the GWP are now passed on by this law, making changes to the WCC, a person who can carry out its mandate, which may give rise to chaos inside the GWP, as for me. And we see what's happening right now inside the Constitutional Court, where, let's say, it's a similar situation, unfortunately, it's happening. Do you consider it appropriate to continue to correct this rule in order to avoid such things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Petrovich. It's only about the so-called ceremonial powers of head of the High Council of Justice under this bill. The point is that according to the bill, the head of the High Council of Justice is to send a letter to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to find out a list of international organizations that can appropriately provide their experts with a competitive commission. This is about other powers when the corresponding composition of the competition commission is to be approved by the head of the High Council of Justice. Given that the head of the High Council of Justice has not been elected at this time – and this is the exclusive mandate of the High Council of Justice as a constitutional body – in order not to brake the implementation of this most important law, and the President has made an appropriate proposal for these ceremonial functions to be performed by the person exercising the mandate of the Head of the PPA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u42	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u43	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I ask that you pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Suffrish Nestor Ivanovich's word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u44	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'll repeat the question I asked the Minister. How come you can't reconcile a single text, a mono-majority, and the President of Ukraine? Because right now it looks kind of funny that the president promises a law that stretches out the majority. We are firmly opposed to any external interference with the Ukrainian judicial system. If you want independent courts, there must be real reform so that the judges can be elected for five years and answer to the people. On the other hand, we see your new fair trial that you are already renting from the Janukovich period such as the Wolf, who are judges of all the lords, with all the consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u46	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. It is this bill, which has already been supported by Parliament, and is supported precisely by the understanding that the model of voting by a competitive commission should be in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which is this bill and is a bill for real judicial reform. So, my fellow Members, I ask you once again to support the bill, to support the President's proposals concerning the exclusion of the technical differences in his final text, and to vote today for a real judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Please have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the vote for the President's proposals. In all, there are six of them. I remind you, each one has a separate vote. After that, it shall be voted on as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no way out of the procedure when it comes to matters. They're all motivated. There's not even a motive here. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a motion to vote number one of the President of Ukraine for registration number 3711-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:02:56]] For 307 Decision taken. Next line number 2, offer, excuse me. The next proposal by President No. 2 of Ukraine is to vote. Please support and vote. [[11:03:24]] For 302 Decision taken. President number three's next proposal. Please support and vote. [[11:03:43]] For 306 Decision taken. Next offer number four. Please support and vote. [[11:04:02]] For 304 Decision taken. Next offer number five. Please support and vote. [[11:04:22]] For 307 Decision taken. Next proposal number 6 of the President of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[11:04:42]] For 308. Decision taken. Let's go to the vote as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 3711-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:05:26]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. Vlasenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Head. On Friday, the committee had a number of violations of the Rules during its consideration of the bill. In particular, a number of opposition factions have not been included in the video conference, nor has the vote, contrary to the Rules, taken place not on every proposal of the President, but in general. So I'm claiming a violation of the Rules during the drafting of this bill for consideration at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u49	The next issue of the agenda is Bill 5068: amending certain Ukrainian laws on the order of election (delegation) for members of the High Council of Justice and the activities of disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice. Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited to the rostrum. Shall we go to the table? Knazević, 1 order. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, this is a fundamental one for me, because I propose to remove the reference to the so-called disciplinary inspectors from the title of the bill. It's a principle thing like me, which is the essence of this bill. Not trying to correct the mandate of the MPs, not to try, as it were, to clean up the GDP and everything else, namely to create an "independent structure", in the paws, in the disciplinary inspectors. We will have the opportunity, I hope, to discuss them during the consideration of this bill. But it is fundamental for us to mention these disciplinary inspectors to be removed from the title of the bill. Why is this important? Because it was the need to reform the institution of disciplinary inspectors that led to the adoption of this law that the rest of it was imposed only after the idea was born into someone’s head. So let's start by removing it from the title of the bill and then removing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u51	I'm betting on the vote number one of the Princes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:00]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Next item. Puzanov. Don't insist. Tymoshenko. Don't insist. Batenko. Cymbaluk, 8th Amendment. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u52	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the consideration of this bill is just an extermination of the results of the turbine, which began two years ago. My law refers to the formation of the First Council of Ethics, which according to the Constitution (arts. 1, 5, 38) speaks of what is being done in the administration of state affairs exclusively by Ukrainian citizens. And this is the guarantee of national sovereignty, the basic principles of democracy, the enforcement of state policy. Dear colleagues also have the right to collect information about a candidate for the post of High Council of Justice, including confidential information with personal data. In doing so, the draft does not contain provisions on the scope of access to information, including the State secret, which shows a violation of another article – the 22nd Constitution of Ukraine. Interference with constitutional law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u53	I'm betting on the vote of 8th Amendment of the Cymbaluk. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:38]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Next line is 9. Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u54	Dmitri Alexanderovich, can I take two minutes to generalize some adjustments and not take any more?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u55	Two minutes, and we don't take all the other stuff, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u56	We're not taking it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u57	Please start and give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, an important bill, two bills relating to GDP. Our position and our approach to our MP group are as follows. We believe that this bill cannot deprive the Supreme Council of Ukraine of being the supreme legislative body and its structural units, which we are with you, the parliamentary factions and groups, of the constitutional powers given to us to appoint a quota for Parliament in the High Council of Justice to apply for membership of the High Council of Justice. And we consider it unnecessary to assign an appropriate committee of profile to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with all due respect for the members of the Committee on Justice, its ineligible powers to decide on the conformity of candidates and their documents with legal requirements. In fact, this bill, my friends, limits the freedom of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a constitutionally recognized subject of the formation of the CFP. We are following the trend in general when the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a subject, is excluded from the staff authority on the NAB, on the DBR, on the other bodies that we have created in this room. And I think we should remember that we are a parliamentary-presidential country. So we see the magnitude of the role of the Supreme Council, factions and groups in the selection of the members of the IDP. We see actually the external administration of the IDP through the Ethical Council, or actually the President's masked administration by this process of assigning members of IDPs under the auspices of influencing international partners. Well, that's not the understanding we have in judicial reform. I believe that masking through the international partnership of judicial reform will only strengthen the Presidential vertical influence in the country's trials. I think this is the wrong way. Our parliamentary group will support this issue. Please put Amendment 9 to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment No. 9 of the Batenka People's Deputies. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:08]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 10. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, you know, I think you have a question about what this bill is actually about. The explanatory note says very well that it should strengthen the institutional capacity of the High Council of Justice, and actually what is it about, in what way? First, by appointing members of the High Council of Justice as international experts. And, you know, for the most part, it doesn't matter that the Constitutional Court has already declared it unconstitutional. The second is through the transfer of disciplinary functions for judges to disciplinary inspectors. I have a question. Who are these inspectors? No one knows. But they will control the judicial corps. Is this the appointment of "lookers" in court? What are these inspectors, explain, the honourable head of the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u61	Thank you. I'm betting on the 10th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:43]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 12, Puzanov. Don't insist. 14th, Radina. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? 13th. Please, Mamka People's Deputy. Partially counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u62	Are you taking away the words of opposition? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the bill is essentially a very important one. But for each bill, according to article 117 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the table should appear to him in 10 days. Perhaps the national MPs were not watching, so I want to inform you that it only appeared yesterday after lunch. This is already a question of how national deputies prepare for such important judicial reforms. My editorial says that, in addition to the announcement of the competition and the disclosure of candidates on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose to add that all candidates for the submission of a committee to which justice belongs should be made public on the official site of the Supreme Council and in the Voice of Ukraine, in the current newspaper of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 13th amendment -- it's partially accounted for, the people's MP Mamka proposes to take this amendment fully into account. So I'm putting in a proposal from the National MP Mamka, and I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[11:15:47.]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 11, it's partially accounted for. Do you want to do partials? Okay. But you're not the author, you're not the author, you're not the author. A great one, please, 11 amendments. People's deputy, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u64	It's the 11th. It is proposed to specify the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to place not only the announcement of a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, but also the date of the competition, the conditions and the list of documents to be submitted to the candidates. Please set up the edit and consider it in full, not in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u65	Thank you. I'm betting on the 11th amendment. The committee considered it in part, and the authors insist on taking full account. So I ask the authors' proposal, which they have expressed, to vote and to determine. [[11:17:14]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 15th, Stefanisin. Don't insist. I see 21st, Mama. Partially counted. Are you going to insist, too? 21st National MP Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I point out that if reform is to take place, it should go on: (a) quickly, qualitatively; (b) it is clear to both the contestants and those who will make appropriate decisions and appoint people in the future. As you think, if everyone's already saying that we're going to reform, only the submission of the competition -- this bill defines 25 days. If we count, we don't go in year after year to pick someone, to appoint someone, to run mechanisms. My paper shortens this term from 25 days to 15. We want to do it fast, so let's do it fast. Please define this term, and it will essentially be more logical and correct. Please place the check on full count.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u67	I'll bet 21 votes. Partially counted. The author insists on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:56]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The author's proposal is not supported, the issue remains partially taken into account. Next line, Stefanishina. Don't insist. Puzanov. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 29th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, the chairman of the committee was very pompous in the consideration of the previous bill, and he said it was actually a real judicial reform. First of all, it's not a judicial reform. This is pure water propaganda, just like the propaganda bill 1008, which was later declared unconstitutional. I am convinced that the same fate awaits this bill that we are currently considering. And to the head of the committee, I would like to propose that we meet and discuss this so-called fairy reform of the year and a half later, when you're back on the stand and talk about what's bothering you. This law on two things: this law on giving the judicial system a full repurchase to foreigners; and secondly, it's a bill that introduces so-called disciplinary inspectors with extraordinary powers that will totally and totally affect the judicial branch of power. So this law is not really about any judicial reform. You want the Ethical Council, please enter, but it should have an advisory voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u69	I'm betting on the 29th Vlastenka amendment. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:40]] For-99 No decision taken, no correction counted. Puziczuk, 40th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u70	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, you know, it's a very strange logic in this bill, but only at first sight. It's just that in this bill, another goal is to try to get foreigners into the national constitutional system. What's in it for you? At least you can explain to the citizens. If you are a foreign delegate, what do you get, what do you sell as a result? You know, at first, the Constitutional Court rightly declared unconstitutional the so-called court reform of 2019, which was created by the Commission on Integrity and Ethics with international experts. Then international experts were introduced into Bill 3711 on the formation of a Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. And there are no Ukrainian citizens who are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u71	I'm betting on the vote number 40. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:21]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 35. We've already gone through the 35th partial. Fuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, number 35. I would like to point out that even the Supreme Council of Candidates is not defined by law. So they can be located forever. The law only prohibits refusal to accept documents. My request and the suggestion that let's set the term: (a) Five days; the second is that these papers of candidates should be considered, not under dress, as proposed by the bill, but in an open session. Provide an open hearing for all participants, for all Ukrainian citizens, at the end of the Office of the President of Ukraine, so they can see what's going on there. Please place an order on the vote and count.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u73	Thank you. Too emotional for me. But I'm betting on 35 votes. It's part of the committee. Mother insists on taking full account. I'm betting on my mom's vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:17]] For-95 Mama's offer is rejected. The amendment remains partially taken into account, as the committee suggested. Next line of the Bacon. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 44.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u74	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, this bill does not correspond to a series of articles of the Ukrainian Constitution, which is obvious. This bill is also not in line with the conclusions of the Venice Commission. What does this bill propose? The ethical council, which has total control over representatives of foreign organizations, makes the so-called primary selection of candidates contrary to the requirements of the Constitution, i.e. replacing the constitutional procedure. It would look something like this: you know, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, if you wanted to get married, and I would choose your bride candidates, and then I would say, "Choose from what I gave you, not what you want, but from what I gave you." This is about the medieval version that we're offered in the Ethical Council mode. So in fact, once again, I emphasize, this bill does not correspond to a series of articles of the Constitution, as well as to the conclusions of the Venice Commission, it is impossible to vote for it, it is impossible to give up state sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u75	Thank you. I'll bet you 44 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:53]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next 46 revisions, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going back to the work of the Council of Ethics. Please, you want to consult with strangers, please. Although I believe that this law defines Ukrainians not as a great nation, but as a low-value secondary nation, which itself is unable to appoint six persons to the Ethics Council to elect candidates to the High Council of Justice. It's a low-cost, reputable colleagues of a large size. In fact, this is what it is called in all countries. And by the way, there are no procedures in any country of the world where foreigners would influence the appointment of disciplinary organs of judicial self - government. No one could name any country in which this would work. We're offered some other mechanisms, the Ukrainian bike, but as always, we have wooden wheels and square wheels, and the majority say it'll be so much better to drive and it'll burn badly. So you can't actually vote for this, it doesn't fit the constitution and conclusions of the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u77	I'll bet you 46 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:26]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cymbaluk, 50 lashes. Partially counted. Vlasenko, 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Head! It's partially accounted for. I'm going to insist on taking fully into account all of my partially accounted rights. I'm going back to the debate on the Ethical Council. In fact, once again, there's a constitutional procedure for electing members of the High Council of Justice, there's a list of constitutional bodies that elect members of the High Council of Justice. If you want to give advice to the constitutional authorities, please set up ethical councils, advisory boards, qualified councils, whatever, but these councils cannot make decisions that are binding on the constitutional authorities, they cannot make primary choices. Moreover, it cannot be that this Council of Ethics, even with equal vote, is determined by votes that are not represented by Ukrainian legal persons. This is a loss of state sovereignty -- once, and a violation of the constitutional procedure for appointing members of the High Council of Justice -- two. And then you can't vote on these rules, it's unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 47th Amendment, is considered in part by the Committee. The author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[11:29:09]] For-94 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next amendment, Cymbaluk, 50th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u80	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, before this bill, the Chief Scientific. More loyally, the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority prepared comments and suggestions on pages 19 of this magazine. And the conclusion is that the bill needs to be redrafted and re-read. Dear colleagues, in fact, my correction. As Sergey Vlasenka continued to speak on the Ethical Council of Justice. This right, together with Julia Timoshenko, suggests that the Ethical Council does not provide the Supreme Council with a list of candidates recommended for election as a member of the High Council of Justice, but concludes on all candidates for the post. And the committee suggests that the Ethics Council should provide the Supreme Council with only a list of candidates recommended for election as a member of the High Council of Justice. In case.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u81	I'll bet you 50 votes. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:44]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 62. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u82	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 51.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u83	Let me see. Excuse me, 51st, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u84	Could you give me a second, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u85	Take your time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, last plenary week, when we were looking at Bill 3711 with you, I was talking about that you're trying to make mistakes again. And in support of that, today we've been looking at a bill that was promised by the President. You've made a number of mistakes. And what you're doing right now when you're considering Bill 5068 is another violation of the Constitution. You don't pay attention to Constitutional Court decision No. 4/2020, which clearly states that it is unacceptable to have control over members of the Supreme Council of Justice to the non-constitutional body when it comes to the Commission on Good offices. I quote, "The Commission is empowered to control the activities of the members of the High Council of Justice."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u87	I'm betting on the 51th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:33]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Please, 62nd Puzichuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, I will continue. The Commission is empowered to monitor the activities of the members of the Supreme Council of Justice and the Supreme Court judges, but these powers do not have a constitutional basis, the positions indicated do not comply with articles 126, 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine. What you're giving as some progressive thing, the fight against corruption, is actually called interference with the work of constitutional bodies. You know, I think Ukrainian citizens would like to see a very different priority: they want to see fair courts that work, where citizens can defend their interests. But you're violating the Constitution. Tell me, who will believe these courts, which will work according to the laws adopted with the violation of the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u89	I'm betting on the 62th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:02]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 63, National Deputy Vlasenko. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u90	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, to the question of whether this is a judicial reform. You know, it can't be judicial reform, a law that defines dot things and solves dot problems. In fact, we've been expecting Mr. President for more than two years, a real comprehensive bill that would bring about judicial reform and provide citizens with quality access to justice. Sadly, this law does not do so. This law will not give the Ukrainians an honest, just trial. We'll talk about this in a year or two. Because I understand that now of all the peaches, refrigerators, TVs will tell you what this next achievement is, just as you were told two years ago about Bill 1008, saying that it is their justice and their judicial reform. But I recall Law 1008, the first legal reform of Zelensky, was declared unconstitutional and destroyed by the Venice Commission. The same fate will be true of this bill. Please support number 63.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u91	I'm betting on a vote of 63 amendments to the People's Deputies of Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:30.]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 66. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u92	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. This bill is more of a perjury than justice. By our right, we demand the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 131 concerning the right of the Supreme Council Committee to decide on the selection of members of the Supreme Council of Justice. We suggest that the Supreme Council Committee, which is responsible for the issue of justice, decides to terminate a candidate in a competition for a member of the High Council of Justice in the event of a specific examination of a candidate that does not meet the requirements for taking office. The committee suggests that it is those candidates who have passed the special examination and are included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethical Council of Justice. It's breaking up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u93	I'm betting on a vote of 66. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:05]] Z-91
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u94	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Sixty-seven axles. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Honorable colleagues, respected citizens, have adopted the wrong approach to a competition for the formation of the Supreme Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Justice is a constitutional body. The Constitution clearly defines subjects who form it (this is article 131). These subjects may be provided with advice, public participation, and assistance. The procedure should be as open as possible. No one opposes, but there is no substitute for constitutional order. I have a request to the chairman of the committee that you at least comment on one of the proposals made by the national MPs. Explain why you violate article 131 of the Constitution and interfere with the work of constitutional bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u96	I'm betting on the 67th vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:36]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. He's a great man. Don't insist. Stefanchuk. Don't insist. Vlasenko. Don't insist. He insists. 74th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u97	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to insist on all my papers, including those that are partially accounted for. I want to go back to the question of reforming the judicial system. Regrettably, the proposed bill in the form in which it is proposed for second reading has no bearing on the reform of the judicial system. This will not allow for fair and just justice. Regrettably, in a year or two, there will be another head of the Legal Policy Committee on the next trial reform, on the next victory, and people will never get a proper, correct, swift access to justice. Once again, you want to choose, get advice from foreigners when choosing the members of the High Council of Justice -- get advice, advice. It is impossible to destroy the constitutional procedure for electing members of the High Council of Justice, and this will not allow for a level playing field and a real judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u98	I'll bet you 74 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:20]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 71 Mama's turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, let me put it in simple folk words. We've forgotten the promise of a business-union, but we've got the business of a judicial branch of power. My amendment speaks of one thing: that if the documents are no longer passed to the candidate, there is a procedure for why it is not allowed: breach of criteria, whole defined standards. Well, it's legal. And we're waiting for recommendations from the Council of Ethics. I have a question: Who goes in there, the Ethical Council? Second, how do they know what requirements for candidates? And why should their decision not be included in the list? Well, I'm sorry, are these the new business-natives instead of those that only went through the first reading, the ones that are waiting for business, or is that something new? My job is to rule out the Ethics Council. Decisions are foreordained.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u100	Thank you. I'll bet you the vote on the reputable MP Mamka. 71 allowances included in part. Mother insists on taking full account. I'll bet you a full vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:09]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Mama's offer is not supported. Next thing you know, Tuck. Don't insist. Mother, 84 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u101	My law says and exposes the standards that are now banned by law. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has banned secret meetings of "wracks in the law" and everyone else. And I'm for it, just to be open. And my editorial says that after receiving the information on the results of the special examination of all candidates for the post of member of the OHR, the committee that is the subject of knowledge of the question of justice is open. Look, the committee's just being asked to discuss it, so we're going to be discussing it out of the way right now. Open sessions, talk, broadcast. Let's give people open information, not hide around the corner. And make the right decisions. My statement on open meetings, and I ask you to place it in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u102	84. It's considered by the committee in part. The author insists on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:56]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. It's left over, more faithfully, partly. Bacon. Don't insist. Chess. Don't insist. Klimenko. Don't insist. Costine. Don't insist. Sharaskin. Don't insist. 138, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u103	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill solves two dangerous things: The Ethics Council is empowered to form or recommend members of the High Council of Justice. And the Ethical Council includes foreigners who, by the way, do not always work effectively in the Ukrainian government. We have an example of the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises, none of which, I emphasize, are profitable after their move. And secondly, we're removing the Supreme Council from the committee's decision-making body. As a result, my amendment refers to the Secretary of the High Council of Justice sending copies of the documents submitted by the candidates to the Ethics Council to reach conclusions on integrity. Dear colleagues, we do not remove the Supreme Council from execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u104	I'm betting on the 138th Amendment of Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:20]] For-89 The decision is not taken. And again, Mamka's 98th. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u105	Dear national deputies, in fact, the candidate who submits the documents, namely the help, the special examination and other conclusion, there is a list. But if there are circumstances, in each situation they are individual, where a candidate can submit other documents that are prohibited in a prescribed law. My amendment says that it is necessary and necessary not to deprive all candidates of their rights. And in addition to that main package of conclusions, the conclusions of the "none" trial, or the "martial" trial, add other documents that the candidate may submit. He can explain all of this and give it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u106	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote of 98. It's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:57]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. The author's proposal is not supported. 106 right, Mamka. It's also partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u107	We have a problem with all the bills and all the laws that there are no deadlines, no deadlines for any procedure. Now, remember, not all of our procedures are going through the Supreme Council, unfortunately, for the first time. Someone will listen to the opposition -- then they get fewer references from the Constitutional Court. Someone doesn't listen, they get unconstitutional court decisions. My amendment says that if the Supreme Council did not take any candidates, it is not necessary to extend the process, but to give, in fact, five days with legal mechanisms. Five days to announce the re-election, go through all the demands, the mechanisms, the procedures, and re-enter those candidates that will be considered in the hall. The procedure is very simple, five days.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u108	I'll bet you 106 votes. Partially counted. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:33]] For-72 No decision taken, no correction counted. Yurishin, don't insist. Vlasenko. No, not at all. Is he insisting? 142.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u109	Thank you, Mr. Head. I emphasize once again, I insist on all my adjustments, including those that have been partially taken into account. You know, the ideology of this bill is actually very simple. If you remember, a few years ago we were told that everyone should be expelled and all new ones recruited. Well, half the parliament got new -- so what's next? Now that we've learned that the story with the "new faces" is a fairy tale, we're offered a completely different fairy tale, and now we're told that all of us will be saved by aliens. I want to remind you that foreigners have chosen the director of the NAB, who is recognized as a corrupter, who has a huge number of issues; foreigners have chosen us the head of the SAP, who has had a huge number of issues; we have a foreigner working as the head of the Ukrazlazlaznica, and now in Poland is being investigated in bribery and corruption; we have foreigners sitting in Naftogaz, but the tariffs are not falling, but they are growing, and Naftogazu is taking millions of dollars in dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u110	I'll bet you 142 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:10]] Z-70. No decision taken, no correction counted. Cymbaluk, 143.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u111	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Fellow dignitaries, 143, refer to how the Ethics Council makes recommendations for candidates to be elected by assemblies: meetings of judges, lawyers, meetings of representatives of legal institutions, and scientific institutions. And we suggest that these recommendations be of a recommendational nature, the characteristics of the Ethical Council of Justice. The committee suggests that the Ethics Council provide these meetings with specific lists of candidates already recommended for election as a member of the High Council of Justice. We feel that this is wrong, and this violates article 131 of the Constitution. And we think it needs support. Please vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u112	I'll bet you 143 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:32]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 144, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm primarily speaking to the head of the committee. Andriy Evgenovich, please explain to us and the Ukrainian citizens why are you trying to run all the bills that violate the Rules, those bills that violate the Constitution? A hundred and seventeen articles of the Rules indicate that the table should be given to the deputies in 10 days. Yesterday, you held meetings of a committee that was not invited by the national deputies of the legislative initiative. You didn't have a professional discussion, you didn't have the opportunity to argue, you didn't have the opportunity to explain. And today, right now during the plenary session, the same thing is happening, there is no discussion, there is no argument, there is a violation of the Rules when this bill is adopted. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u114	I'll bet you 144 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:02]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Jurchisin. Don't insist. Tarasenko. Don't insist. Fuck. 148 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u115	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the discussion in the Hall is about the mandatory consideration of the decision of the Ethics Council. Look, if there is any obligation under the bill, everyone agrees that there should be responsibility. There's no responsibility. If a person’s obligation to do so has failed, why? My amendment says one thing: If we are incomprehensible or the decision to receive the Ethical Council, it should only be of a recommendation nature when there is no responsibility for failure to implement the decision. As long as there is no responsibility, it is lawful to say duty, but the recommendation is true both by logic and by law, and by morals, in terms of the members of the R & D.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u116	I'm willing to vote 148 Mamas. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:39]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Yasca. Don't insist. Radina. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 152 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Andrey Evgenyovich, I'm going to go to you and insist that Parliament is a place for discussion. If you do not want to explain to Ukrainian citizens, you have no desire or intention to explain to us, your colleagues, please explain your position publicly to our foreign partners right now. Are you aware that this bill violates the Constitution? Do you realize that once the work of the Constitutional Court is restored, there will be a high probability that this bill will be declared unconstitutional? Explain to the judges what will happen to them, explain to the citizens what will happen to those decisions, will they be rightful? Explain your position on such legal nihilism and your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u118	I'll bet you 152 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:14]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 155 right, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u119	Thank you, Mr. Head. Instead of the serious subtle and day-to-day work on reforming the judicial system, we're being offered a series of "choices" like what we're going to appoint foreigners in an unconstitutional way that will shape the Higher Council of Justice, and everything in us will change. Unfortunately, nothing will change. Once again, this is not a reform of justice, it is not a reform of the judicial system, it is not a reform of the High Council of Justice. Unfortunately, this is a huge campaign. And I agree with those colleagues who say that this unconstitutional propaganda is being carried out at a time when the President deliberately and artificially blocked the work of the Constitutional Court in order, on the one hand, not to allow the Constitutional Court to recognize as unconstitutional the Law on the Market of the Earth, which is obvious; and to declare unconstitutional this whole piece of legislation that is now being proposed to us. Please support amendment 155, and the bill does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u120	I'm betting on the 155th amendment of Vlastenka. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:42]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Cymbaluk, 156.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. This bill allows for two unacceptable things. First, the Ethical Council has been imposed, which practically forms the full composition of the High Council of Justice, is removed from the constitutional responsibilities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the powers of the judiciary and other self - government bodies, such as the assembly of lawyers, the assembly of judges, and representatives of legal institutions and scientific institutions are tightened. And the next is that it's dangerous, it's demeaning, it's demeaning, it's a member of the High Council of Justice, and it's replaced by the unconstitutional introduction of inspectors who are practically replacing the work of a member of the High Council of Justice. Please put my order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u122	I'll bet you 156 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Puzichuk. No, 12 o'clock. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, back to our work. Puzichuk. Don't you insist? He's a great man. Don't insist. Mother, 162nd. Is it? I can't see. Oh, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u124	I'm in place, Dmitri, but I can't bring up such an important, important issue. Dear people's deputies, I'm still in charge of the bill, and for myself I've not personally taken care of, and the decision of the Council of Ethics, will it be recommended, or is it mandatory? In some articles, we are required to do so, and in others, we recommend it. I would like to point out, however, that if a procedure for non-admission of a candidate or non-inclusion on the list or on the grounds on which the candidate ceases to participate in the competition, as defined by procedure and law, the decision of the Ethics Council should not be mandatory and should influence the process. If anyone wants to hear the recommendations, he will hear them, but in the order recommended, not in general, as necessary. My amendment is very simple: that the decision of the Ethical Group should only be recommended.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u125	I'm betting on the vote of 162 Moms. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:12]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next item is 165 Mamas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u126	I want to pay attention to the people's deputies, who have already studied the table that we have from the Committee in violation of the Rules, and to point out such things as that. And to remind you that the Supreme Council had previously posted all the publications, its decisions, key decisions in the Voice of Ukraine, in the Government Quarter. "couriers." At present, one edition has been closed. You can laugh, but we're in the Quarter, unfortunately, not in the law. One issue was closed by a decision of the Supreme Council, and we are currently just posting in electronic resources on the Office of the President, the Supreme Council, and we are also beginning to forget about the Voice of Ukraine. My amendment says that the decisions of the data should be printed in the Voice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u127	I'll bet you 165 on Mama's vote. It's partially accounted for. Mother insists on taking full account. I'm betting on my mom's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:52]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next line, Puzanov. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 174th. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u128	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u129	Vlasenko, 186.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Head. Now we're going to talk about examples where the bill is not in line with the conclusions of the Venice Commission. What the drafters are proposing. They're offering us that this so-called Ethics Commission, picking up, instead of constitutional bodies, candidates for MPPs, it should present to the constitutional body a list of candidates twice as much as we need candidates for MPPs. This directly contradicts paragraph 45 of the Venice Commission’s conclusion, as is the law in general. But in fact, I agree that this is a more technical question when the recommendations of the Venice Commission are ignored. Because when we have to defend ourselves, we say that Venice is a sacred cow, you can't even change a coma there, you can't change the letters. And when we really need it, we close our eyes to the conclusions of the Venice Commission and push something completely unconstitutional. Please support the 186, and the law in general does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u131	186 law Vlasenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:49]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 187 requisitions. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u132	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. This bill or full-fledged judicial reform awaits all Ukrainian society, as well as our international partners and investors, because this is really a problem that hinders the development of the Ukrainian state. With Amendment 187, we suggest that the Ethics Council should provide a competitive commission set up by the President solely for each candidate to meet the criteria of professional ethics and good faith, which are of a recommendational nature. Regrettably, the committee authorizes the Ethics Council to list recommended candidates for the posts of members of the High Council of Justice. At the same time, we point out that the President’s mandate to approve the provisions for the selection of candidates for the post of a member of the PSC testifies to a violation of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u133	I'm betting on the 187th vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:20]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next line is 189. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u134	198, Mr. Head. In fact, how the so-called ethical councils or public councils work, we saw in the previous chamber of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. It's a completely unprofessional job, it's just as politicized, it's just as individualized, I'd say. But I have a legal question. Please tell the Ethics Council to make the decisions required by the constitutional authorities. Where, though, can the decision of the Ethics Council be challenged? And in what quality will the Ethical Council answer such disputes? It's not a legal person, it's a person who basically has an auxiliary character, which is made up of representatives of foreign organizations. So what is the procedure for accusing the decisions of this body? Where to Accuse? Back to the Supreme Court? So let's eliminate all the courts, we'll sue the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u135	I'll bet you 198 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:53]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next line is 200. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u136	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, honourable reporter, the Fatherland team for real judicial reform. We are for the power of the law, not the law of power or power. This is confirmed by the official conclusion of the Supreme Council, the Chief Legal Authority, on page 19. And our position of the Fatherland faction coincides with the position of the judiciary, which does not belong to the opposition, but indeed serves the laws and the Constitution. And the only general conclusion is that the bill needs to be redrafted and re-readed. Please listen to the legal professionals. Please put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u137	I'm betting on the vote number 200 of the Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:18]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 203 correct. Fuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, it's very painful to see a job that's not actually going to go to a more legal plane. And there's the saying, "People's music, my words too." About this opera, we are reforming and lying to those international partners who are giving money to Ukraine. The international partners have forgotten to say that they want us to see a real judicial reform or just see the viewers as the Ethical Council for the Judicial Branch? On this point, the conclusion of the GNEU is 19 sheets, which is a disgrace, a concrete conclusion. But there is a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Judgment of the Constitutional Court of 11 /03 In 2020, it is said that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine notes that the body, the institution established by the Constitutional Court, the body, the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u139	I'll bet you 203 Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:51]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next line, Vlasenko, 204.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u140	Let's talk a little bit about the criteria under which this Council of Ethics will choose candidates for the High Council of Justice. Look what they're offering us in the bill. A candidate of the High Council of Justice is considered to meet the criteria of integrity and professional ethics if he is independent, honest, unbiased, unrepentant, conscientious, ethical, and demonstrating -- attention! - irreprehensible conduct in professional activities and personal life, and of which there is no doubt as to the legality of the origins of property. Boys, no one gets under these criteria, no one gets under these criteria. And that means that these criteria are fiction, so that the Ethical Council, on an entirely individual basis, can choose those who are needed to be part of the Supreme Council of Justice in an unconstitutional way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u141	I'm betting on a vote of 204 Vlasenka's amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:21]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next line is 206, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u142	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, of course, at a time when the work of the Constitutional Court has been paralyzed, it is possible to adopt, manifest, by a large majority and some other factions bills that will become laws in violation of more than six articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. It's a legal nonsense. In any situation, the Constitutional Court will work, and then this bill, if it becomes law, will be declared unconstitutional. My amendment relates to the fact that we propose to exclude the position that the competitive commission does not conduct interviews to determine professional competence in the event that a candidate is not included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethical Council. And the committee suggests that the competition commission is interviewing those candidates and only those candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u143	I'm betting on a vote of 206 on Cymbaluk's amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:50]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Puzichuk, 207 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the functions of the Ethics Council are consultative, and for what do you prescribe excessive powers to give the Ethics Council the right to determine the composition of the High Council of Justice? This is contrary to the Constitution. I read article 131. "The Supreme Council of Justice consists of 21 members, 10 of whom elects a meeting of Ukrainian judges from the number of judges or judges in retirement, two appointed by the President, two elected by the Supreme Council, two elected by a meeting of lawyers, two elected by the All-Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors, two elected by the Assembly of Representatives of Legal Institutions and Scientific Institutions." Explain why you are trying to give unconstitutional authority to the Ethics Council. Thank you. And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u145	I'll bet you a vote of 207. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:17]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next line is 210, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u146	I would like to finish quoting, please note the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11.03. 2020, which concludes in its opinion that the "Ending, transitional positions" of this law, which has already been evaluated by the Commission or the Ethical Council for the project, will have the same powers conferred on it to control the activities of the members of the High Council of Justice and the judges of the Supreme Court. However, these powers do not have a constitutional basis. What decision will you be awaiting after the vote and the accusation before the Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court is bad, so I am officially warning the Supreme Council from the rostrum that we are deliberately making unconstitutional decisions. Who will be responsible? Not today, but tomorrow, yes. Here's an update.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u147	I'll bet you 210 votes. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:48]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 212th, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow citizens, once again, the Ethics Council should carry out an advisory function. They should not assume the authority of the subjects of the assignment and form the Supreme Council of Justice on their own. Dear colleagues, you are once again making your way to the Constitutional Court. The Court of First Instance will point to the inadequacy of this bill of the Constitution, and it will state it quite correctly. You know, you spend a lot of time correcting your mistakes, and that statistics that you've adopted don't match the reality, because one of the bills you've adopted, you need to then adopt three or four more bills to correct your mistakes. Please do not support this bill, but support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u149	I'm betting on a 212 vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:15.]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 216th, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. During the break, Dmitri Alexanderovich had a conversation with the citizens, with the voters. The question is, Why does the chairman of the committee not explain the position of the committee and his personal position at all according to any amendment that the national deputies insist on? Is it not a desire to speak in the head of a profile committee, or are you restricting it? Now, dear colleagues, notice that we are not discussing the requirements of the Ethics Council today at all, that is, there is no professional discussion. The question is, What are the requirements, what are their responsibilities and what are their responsibilities? And this says it's a very low quality of this bill that can't be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u151	I'm betting on the 216th vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:51]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 218 right, Mamka. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u152	Note what has already been done in reform or in other judicial processes. In order for the President to appoint, we need a list of documents, which is what the law says. The Competition Commission submits to the President of Ukraine a list of candidates recommended for office, along with information on the results of the special examination, note the conclusions of the Ethics Council, as well as the documents submitted by the candidates. So let's say what the documents are. What are these conclusions? Ethical counsel does not recommend, exclude, or conclude from the above. Well, if a specialist in Ukraine concludes, he is responsible for it, including criminal responsibility. Ethical counsel concludes and does not answer. Well, in the end, let's either assign responsibility or conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u153	Thank you. Mamka’s proposal, which has been partially taken into account, is based on voting because Mama insists on taking full account. That's right, isn't it? Please identify and vote. [[12:54:27]] For-66 They didn't support it, it stayed partially accounted for. Puzichuk, 221st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, you know, instead of using this plenary week effectively and actually solving those issues that are very painful for you: what's going to happen with the next increase in energy tariffs, the debt on wages in Ukraine, is this Supreme Council, represented mostly, unfortunately, by a majority, is adopting bills that, in the near future, are highly likely to be declared unconstitutional. You know, there's no work for the Ukrainian state, it's not work for you, it's for the electorate that you've assigned them to represent your interests, but it's definitely not directed to represent your interests, it's a violation of the Constitution. And you can't take it like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u155	I'm betting on the vote of 221 Puzichuk. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:03]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Motherfucker, 224th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, we're destroying not only the judicial branch of power, but we're destroying those sources, those official printed sources that are essentially spreading and reporting that information to Ukrainian citizens in print. Once again, the terms and terms of the competition for a member of the GWP are only proposed to publish electronically on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to publish on the official website of the Supreme Council. I'm proposing that, "servants," let's expand. There are printed editions, they are funded, they are reported to people in printed editions. There are people who write these publications all the time. Let us print on those sites, where it is provided by law, because it will be true. And I'm going to ask you to say, what is the reason that you don't accept publishing anyway?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u157	I'm betting on the 224th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:41]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 227, Puziychuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u158	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, listen to the essence of this bill. By this bill you limit the freedom of the Supreme Council, your freedom as a constitutionally designated subject of the Supreme Council of Justice, your choice, your appointment to the designated body. You're actually putting this question to the decision of the newly created Ethical Council. According to the footnotes of part two of article 131 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Justice is a constitutional body consisting of 21 members. Please support my amendment. Do not limit yourself to opportunities. Once again, you hand over your authority to the incomprehensible newly created Ethical Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u159	I'm betting on a vote of 227. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:06]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Bobrowski. Don't insist. Jurchisin, Ustinova. Don't insist. Dubinsky. Don't insist. 234th. Now, just a second. It's partially accounted for. Are you insisting? Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We are told by many in Ukraine that we have fine laws but that they are not. I would like you to say once again, please tell anyone, even your Ethical Council, who will be able to select a candidate for the High Council of Justice so that he can meet the following criteria: "The candidate demonstrates a flawless conduct in professional activity and personal life." Who will test whether he conducts himself flawlessly in personal life? And if there's an anonymous one that you're legitimized by the "knockers" law, then what, he's not a candidate anymore? And then the criteria are, "and there's no doubt about the legality of the origins of property." Notice, not even a criminal case has been committed, but someone has doubts. Someone may have doubts about the origin of any property at all. These are completely subjective criteria that do not meet the principle of legal certainty, and then the rule of law, as it has repeatedly been.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, Amendment 234 is partially included. The author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[13:01:10]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The amendment stayed with the committee. The next amendment is 258, the Cymbaluk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, because I'm just looking for the word "refused." 241 and then, Mama. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u162	Twenty-four-one. And I was given a table in the paper-based safety committee, and it's clearly, clearly, correctly written.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u163	I just switched to electronic. I'm on the next level.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u164	Oh, no, no, dijitalization, see, it doesn't work, it doesn't define anything. My editorial says that in the first reading, notice, the Ethical Council was assigned its activities for six years. I say, listen, six years is a lot, let's say three. There will be a new dragon, "businesswoman" in the branch of power in the selection of candidates. But the committee went even further, and we cleared the deadlines, and the Ethical Council is operating on an uninterrupted basis, but it's in the right column. Listen, let's just put the deadlines, let's limit anything, let's limit the mandatory performance, there's no responsibility, and there's no eternal term. Is that an eternal mechanism?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u165	I'm betting on a vote of 241 amendments. The committee considered it in part, and the author insists on taking full account of her application. So please identify and vote. 241. [[13:03:12]] Z-71
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u166	The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Vlasenko, 244.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u167	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, the most frightening thing is the propaganda of legislation, when people are given the hope that something is supposed to work, in fact, it's obviously not going to work, and then they're going to tell us what law enforcement is. I have repeatedly referred to the criteria proposed by law for the election of candidates to the High Council of Justice. Obviously, these criteria will not work, obviously, that they will work selectively, obviously that someone will be determined that he has an irreprehensible personal life, and someone will be recognized as having a perfect personal life. And only on this basis will a person be removed from the list of candidates for the High Council of Justice and he will not be able to properly challenge that decision. So this is all a propaganda of the legislative process, it has nothing to do with the judicial reform. And this certainly will not bring people justice, justice, justice, justice, and justice. Please support the amendment and do not vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u168	I'll bet you 244 votes. It is part of the committee, and the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:57]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next line is 258, the Cymbaluk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, 254. I'd like your eyesight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies, well, we have already settled with the Ethical Council, which is appointed on an untimely basis, which has a mandatory function, as we say in white black - and must be carried out. But I want to point out that the members of the Ethical Council may be persons, as recommended by the committee, but they forgot to say which state citizens. My paper says that let's say that there might be people -- Ukrainian citizens who have this flawless business reputation (we just don't fully understand what it is), high professional, moral qualities. And I also want to point out that let's focus, not on the citizens of Ukraine who really have that kind of authority and criteria, and determine that the members of the Ethical Council should only be citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u170	I'll bet you 254 on Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. The author is fully accounted for. It's partially accounted for, I'm sorry. The author's full count. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:48]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Cymbaluk, 258.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u171	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, when preparing the draft for second reading, spoke about the rule of law. In fact, the Venice Commission repeatedly pointed to respect for the rule of law and the Constitution of Ukraine. My number 258 revision helps authors to make more adjustments to the Constitution of Ukraine. We suggest that the Council of Ethics consists of six individuals who are Ukrainian citizens appointed by the Council of Judges of Ukraine. And the proposed edition of the committee does not contain a direct norm that individuals who are proposed to the Ethics Council should be citizens of Ukraine. Once again, this is a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u172	I'll bet on a vote of 258 on Cymbaluk's amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:23]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next item. Vlasenko, 263, partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u173	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, the formation of this Ethical Council, even if you wanted to form it in the way you form it, as an advisory body, which would be constitutional, but still have to be shaped according to the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which says that most judges appointed by judges should have in such bodies. And this is the clear position of the Venice Commission, which is being followed in many, many, many conclusions. Unfortunately, you have taken a completely different approach. And I'll do it again in an unconstitutional way. First, we left 3 by 3. Secondly, in the case of equality of vote, it has been decided that the vote of representatives of international commercial organizations, who are not aware of what they are doing, should prevail over the voice of Ukrainian citizens. Once again, this puts Ukrainians in the second row and makes them less valuable. You make Ukrainians less valuable. "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u174	I'm betting on the vote number 263. It's partially accounted for. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:01]] Z-71 The author's proposal for full accounting is not supported. The edit remains partially accounted for. Tsymbaluk. 264th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u175	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. It is unfortunate that the session hall did not support Vlasenko’s ruling, for it was she who was talking about the implementation of the recommendations of the Venice Commission, that it was the judges who should be part of the Ethics Council, and it was the judges who formed this judicial body. My ruling suggests that the Ethical Council is composed of individuals appointed solely by the Council of Judges of Ukraine. The committee, indeed, takes into account Vlasenko’s proposal in part and provides that the Ethics Council consists of three persons from the number of judges or judges in the resignation proposed by the Council of Judges of Ukraine. I ask you to put my rights to the vote, and in general to support the legal administration's proposal to return to the second reading of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u176	I'll bet you 264 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:30.]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next amendment, Reverend. Don't insist. Vlasenko. 269th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u177	Thank you, Mr. Head. Once again, the authors and the authors of the amendments are actually listed in the fact that the Ukrainian minority nation, that we are not actually able to manage our own government, we are unable to make order, we have no honest, decent people, we have no one, because we are offered to perform these functions by people appointed by foreign organizations. I'm going to point out once again that this is unacceptable from a governmental point of view, on the one hand. On the other hand, I took note of such a fact. You know, the judicial system has been actively reformed since 2010. And the more they "reform" the court system all this time, the worse it works. So unfortunately, I have to say that this law will not give people swift, fair, just justice. This will be another transitional bill that will bring nothing to the common people and allow politicians and foreigners to control the judicial system. Thank you. [[13:12:54]] 269 revisions. The committee is partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[13:13:12]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The amendment stays with the committee. 271 amendment, Cimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u178	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, then perhaps we should change to the Constitution, where it will be stipulated that the Higher Council of Justice is formed by persons from international partners, i.e. persons without Ukrainian citizenship, our consultants, those who assist the State in carrying out reforms. My bill relates to the exclusion of the position that three persons identified by international organizations are members of the Council of Ethics. Dear colleagues, I do not believe that among the 40 million nations, there are no honest, conscientious people out of the multi-million-dollar corps of judges in Ukraine who are capable of choosing a quality High Council of Justice today. Let us begin to respect our citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u179	I put to the vote 271 the amendment of the people's deputies, Timoshenko, Tsimbaluka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:44]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 273. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u180	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Andry Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. I'm addressing the committee head first. Andrew Evgenovich, explain your position, and perhaps the position of the committee, why do you not consider it appropriate to form an Ethics Council with Ukrainian citizens? Why do you think that Ukrainian citizens do not have adequate experience? Why do you think they're incompetent? Why are you so humiliating to your constituent citizens? So give an explanation, because it's really a question that everybody wants to answer. And the next question. If you think there are foreign citizens and they're really skilled, why won't these citizens accept Ukrainian citizenship, why won't foreigners accept Ukrainian citizenship if they want to work for Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u181	I'm betting on the 273th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:11]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 283, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing a bill recommending that the Council of Ethics consists of three members of the judiciary, one person proposed by the Ukrainian Prosecutors' Council. Let us write that the Council of Prosecutors of Ukraine is defined by any law. Because unfortunately, there is, or fortunately, a public organization called the Council of Prosecutors of Ukraine. There's also what the committee is proposing, a public organization called the Council of Lawyers of Ukraine. Well, let's put it into perspective: or these organs are defined by law, well, not by public organizations. The compatibility and uncertainty of treatments in the law will result in the blocking of an initiative. And I want to point out that let's make this clear: three persons defined by the meeting of legal representatives of the university.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u183	I'm betting on a vote of 283 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:45]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next, 290. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u184	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear fellows, once again we address you, hear the opposition representatives, hear the sound of reason! Don't try to pass bills through the Supreme Council right now, which in the near future, once the Constitutional Court is in place, will be declared unconstitutional. Dear colleagues, you are restricting the authority of the Supreme Council, you are granting unlimited powers to this day, not consultative, but real powers to the Ethical Council, in order to form the Supreme Council of Justice. Explain what you are motivated by. Why are you violating the Constitution, why are you breaking the Rules and trying to carry out this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u185	I'm betting on a vote of 290 amendments, People's Deputy Puziyczuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:12]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 310. Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, by my amendment, in fact, I support the logic of the amendments to the bill itself. Why? Because my position is very simple: if there are mandates and deadlines, then it works. If there are authorizations that are not defined and there are no terms, it will not work. My editorial says that the head of the High Council of Justice refers to the entities of the Ethical Council for the appointment of candidates to its term no later than the date of receipt of the list of international organizations (which is proposed in the bill). What if the international organization doesn't give the candidates? For example, we have seen that the State Bureau of Investigation has no leader so far, because international partners have no experts. Who is responsible for this? For more than a year, there is no leader — there is no responsibility. And we're going back to the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u187	I'm betting on the 310th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:52]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 313, Cimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u188	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer that will surprise you with its novelty. I propose that this bill be returned to read again. In the committee, invite representatives of the meeting of judges, lawyers, the Academy of Sciences, representatives of the expert board and the Chief Legal Office and hold a discussion on proposals that the committee did not consider for second reading. Indeed, the thinking of the people, the professional lawyers who have deliberately given their lives to the service of the people, is now in the hands of the judge, so that the bill adopted in second reading and in general really unlocks and effectively works to strengthen the judiciary's branch of power rather than to carry out the demands. It seems that the bill has long been in motion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u189	313 law. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:31]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line, Mama, 319th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u190	My proposal for a readjustment is very simple: to regulate the law, just as we standardize it in other, very interesting initiatives on the subject matter of formation, which is listed in the Ethics Council list, to the High Council. the candidates for the Ethical Council together with the following documents, and this list is defined: application for processing personal data, autobiography, application for non-debt -- what is defined and provided by law. Unfortunately, the committee did not support it. And now I understand why the Supreme Council doesn't fully understand the law. Because we really missed the election campaign of the ethical council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then we would really go through a more qualitative selection and adopt more legislation for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. And the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u191	I'll bet you 319 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:01]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 320 revisions, Cimbaluk,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u192	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Golovo, your Honorable colleagues, 320 rulings propose to approve and determine the subject of the formation of the Ethics Council only by the Council of Judges of Ukraine. This is a technical norm, but the committee suggests that the lists of candidates for the Ethics Council, submitted by several entities, are published on the official website of the High Council of Justice and the official web portal of the judiciary. Please support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u193	I'll bet you 320 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:08]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line is 323, Mama. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u194	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, may I have your request? Can we let the rapporteur explain the position of the committee instead of the amendment? And to explain why we print in the Supreme Council's electronic portals, and in the official edition of the Voice of Ukraine, we don't print in print. Why is this happening? Do we also want to bankrupt the official edition and also vote conscientiously - and close the newspaper? Please explain your position to the citizens of Ukraine, to the Ukrainian people's deputies and newspaper editors, and to the signatories who write it, that you are violating their rights, directly, but indirectly, you are violating their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u195	Can Mommy be denied? Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u196	The position of the committee is very simple: to anticipate the only source of information for the launch of the competition in order to avoid situations where it can be published on web portals and newspapers on different days. So it's very simple. Everyone has access to the web portal, the official site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there has been no criticism of this issue. Let us, however, follow the way of citizens' access to official electronic sources of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u197	Grigory Mikolaiovich, why don't we put your amendment on the table? Should we put it in? Of course, let's put it on. Gregory Mikolaiovich, we can't refuse you. Thus, 323 amendments made by Mamka’s people’s deputy are partially taken into account. You heard the reasons why this was taken into account in part. At the same time, a national MP, using his constitutional right, requires full consideration. So please identify and vote. [[13:27:40]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The amendment stays with the committee. Next amendment 325. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u198	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorary colleagues who have just telephoned representatives of the judicial corps in Lviv and ask why bills are passed where the Constitution does not allow them to have the right to form a judicial branch of power and a higher branch. More loyal, the Ethical Council of Ukrainian Citizens? I would like to support this amendment, which says that of all subjects of the Ethical Council formation not later than five working days after the deadline for filing lists. Please, this is not a technical norm, this is a norm that will enable us to ensure legal activity in the wake of Ukrainian legislation and will comply with the Constitution of our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u199	I'm betting on a vote of 325 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:13]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 336, Reverend. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Okay, here we go. Next, next, the 347th, the Bacon. Don't insist. 349, Vlasenko. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u200	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. With the Ethical Council, we have two problems. First of all, we can't put any additional bodies into constitutional procedure that make a decisive decision at any stage of consideration. Even if it was made up of only Ukrainian judges, it was unconstitutional. And secondly, it's actually made up not only of Ukrainian citizens, but also of representatives of foreign organizations who have the right to vote. And even if their voices are equal, their voice is more important. But we are encouraged to make this Council of Ethics a permanent organ. In particular, the bill suggests that the term of office of members of the Council of Ethics be six years without the right to be reappointed. That is, it is possible to appoint a member of the Ethics Council again. Instead, I suggest you write that the Ethical Council acts as a temporary body that can be extended exclusively by law. It's different completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u201	I'm betting on a vote of 349 amendments to the People's Deputies of Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:09]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 350, Kabachenko. Don't insist. Next. 354th Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, let's limit the term, the term of office of a member of the Ethical Council. So why is it six years, what's being proposed? There we make deadlines, and here we enter six years. Let's take three years, really, to go through all the procedures once again of illustrations, castrations, mockery of honest judges. Well, it shouldn't be like that. Well, a person cannot work in reform for ten years or fifteen years. Well, reform is change. What are we changing? What's for the better? We're just canceling everything. But I want to point out about the first talk by the reporter, and I've been sitting there, and I've been thinking about how the digitalization process, with this simple coverage of the Internet, is going to come to the villages, to the depths of Ukraine. What about Ukraine's Voice, maybe counting with them?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u203	I'm betting on the 354th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:53]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Now, let me see, 357. Mother, please. It's partially accounted for, Gregory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u204	Look, you can count it in part, but you'd be more rational. Why is it more rational? As much as we've adopted legislation on the fight against corruption or corruption, I'm not going to be able to deal with it until now. We in Ukraine have forgotten what we are struggling with — as with corruption or corruption? I ask you to complete the article, namely, by obtaining legal power by a court decision on the recognition of a participant, his assets or assets acquired at the commission of other persons, or others provided for in article 290 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, in cases that are groundless, and in the revenue of the State. If we've come up with such a responsibility, we've put in place a special procedure, we're currently being considered in the Constitutional Court, let's set limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u205	I'm betting on a vote of 357 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee considered it in part, but the distinguished national MP demands full consideration. So please identify and vote. [[13:34:43]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The amendment stays with the committee. Next amendment 369, Puzichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u206	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Head of the Committee, listen to me carefully and explain. Ruslan Alexiyovich, and I'm addressing you. My amendment suggests that finding false information to confirm the candidate’s compliance with the requirements of part two of this article is a reason for the early termination of the mandate of a member of the Ethics Council. Why did you reject my amendment, can you explain? I mean, it turns out that if a candidate makes knownly false information, in other words, a lie, a candidate for the Ethical Council, he will not be held responsible for it! And his authority will not even be interrupted. But in fact, we now have 367 articles, if I'm not mistaken, of the Criminal Code, which is that it's a knownly false data entry into official documents. So why is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u207	The right question is, I'm addressing him to the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u208	Very short. It is because if this fact is revealed in a criminal trial and a court verdict is found, that is the reason why a member of the Ethical Council is suspended. What you proposed was discussed by the committee. The committee acknowledged that this formulation was not legal. is not defined from a legal point of view and can create risks for pressure on members of the Ethical Council. Therefore, if you are talking about bringing criminal responsibility for the filing of false information, another case is the termination of the membership of the person concerned, the appropriate person in the Council of Ethics, namely, the judgment of the court against him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u209	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote 369 of the amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:18]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 379th. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u210	My amendment says that I still support my logic of changing the rights to the law that authorization or permanent termination of powers should have deadlines. There are no terms - no order, no mess, no reform, no new body! I want to limit the term that the head should, if any of the reasons for a member's early termination is found, submit his proposals within 14 days. Why 14? Because two weeks, I think, would be enough for a person or a person with authority to determine, on grounds, with a candidate, to hold consultations, so to speak, to decide whether the Council of Prosecutors will be held with the Public Council of Prosecutors of Ukraine, and everything else. I think it's still necessary to limit time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u211	379 amendments, partially counted. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[13:39:03]] For-63 The decision is not taken. And the amendment stays with the committee. Next amendment, 382. Tsymbaluk. Excuse me, 380. Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u212	Well, what are you so careless about with the dijitalization process? That's what the colleague said.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u213	I'm also a bright subscriber of the Voice of Ukraine, so I'm entitled to some kind of flaw.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u214	In paper form, in printed form, take the crash away. But this is the example of dijitalization, whether it works or not, on us, the national MPs. With my edit, I want to open secret meetings that will only be broadcast on one web resource. And I want to say that let's open the competition as it should be. And open up more opportunities in the dijitalization process. This is on the official Web site of the Supreme Council of Justice and the official web portal of the Ukrainian judiciary. They are. Let's load, let's open. Let's go from a secret group on a telegram, chat most of the time open to people. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u215	I'll bet you 380 votes. The committee is partially accounted for. Mother insists on taking full account. I'm betting on my mom's vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:49]] For-67 The offer is not supported. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next item 382. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u216	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. History teaches us that there is nothing to teach. Dear colleagues, analyze the effectiveness of the oversight councils that include foreign citizens. Naftegas - bankruptcy. What else has gone on? The cruiser is bankrupt, Krašta, Ukrenergo and others. What you're suggesting is that the Ethical Council should be visited by foreigners, and even 382 we're right to suggest that they don't have the right to vote remotely. But the committee didn't take this into account. And today, those who join the Ethical Council from abroad will have the right to vote remotely from their country, not even here. Is that fair, fellow believers? I'm not talking about the financial side or the morals of this problem anymore. Please put the amendment to the vote. [[13:42:06]] I'm betting on a vote of 382 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:22]] For-65
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u217	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Vlasenko, 391st. Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u218	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, I'm willing to go a little bit ahead and point out what's going to happen after this law, God forbid, is going to be adopted. And then they'll show us how the Ethics Council selects the candidates. They'll show us that they've sucked one, two, three odinous judges in there. They will then reach out to all who are needed, assign all who are needed. The only thing that will not happen will not be the creation of a real, independent, objective judicial system that will not be under the influence of foreigners or under the influence of active authorities. And Ukrainian citizens will not be able to feel the benefits of such a judicial system. And in exactly one and a half, two, two and a half years, the same new committee head will be standing in the rostrum, reporting a new law on the redundancies of everything and everything. But then they will no longer offer new faces or foreigners, offering something else instead of actually reforming the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u219	I'll bet you 391 votes. The committee is not supported, is more faithful, is considered editorially. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:57]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. 393? That's how 393 counts. No, not at all. 393 is fully accounted for. 415th, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u220	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, my bill is very specific. We suggest that the Ethical Council itself develops a draft regulation that is approved by the Supreme Council of Justice. Unfortunately, the committee suggested that the Ethical Council, on its own without any agreement, approves its rules of procedure, including those members of the Ethical Council, representatives of international structures, who from abroad will participate remotely and adopt decisions, i.e. vote. We think it's wrong. And I'm asking you to put 415 to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u221	I'll bet you 415 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:53]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 418, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u222	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, with this right, Yulia Timoshenko and I have proposed that we exclude the position that the Ethical Council is assigned to define how a candidate can be appointed as a member of the High Council of Justice under the criteria of professional ethics and integrity. And the committee proposes to refer to the Ethical Council's credentials, to the validation of the methodology for assessing the candidate's responsibility to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice under the criteria of professional ethics and integrity. We believe that basic positions should be defined at the level of the law, and evaluation methods should refer to the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice. And our position has not changed, we ask that we return to the second reading of the bill, in no way can it be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u223	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 421 Czymbaluk's amendment. The committee is not supported. Sorry, 418 correct, sorry. 418 correct, Cimbaluca. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:36]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next up, Cimbaluk, 421.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u224	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. With this right, we propose to exclude the position that the Council of Ethics provides for the possibility of analysing information about a candidate for the post of High Council of Justice from any source. Which the committee approves. What the Ethics Council collects, examines and analyzes information about the candidate for office as a member of the High Council of Justice, including confidential information with personal data received from public authorities and local authorities, information received from individuals and legal persons, from media and other sources. Dear colleagues, article 8 of the Constitution, the principle of legal certainty is not respected. And let's say what the colleagues have already stressed today, the information from the open sources is different, not always it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u225	I'll bet you 421 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:08]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 430 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u226	Thank you, Mr. Head. Once again, we return to the question of the necessity of the so - called recommendations of the Council of Ethics. I agree with colleagues who say that there can be no mandatory recommendations: either recommendations or mandatory decisions. I realize that the ideology of the bill, that these decisions are mandatory, is that other legal terms are used further in the text. But such neglect of legislation creates the possibility of a double or triple interpretation. But the very fact that an organ is to bear. The work of which should be of a recommendational nature, giving some mandatory lists, someone can exclude instead of those bodies that should do so under the Constitution, is a direct and profound disregard for the general basic principles of jurisprudence and lawfulness, a mere spitting attitude towards the Ukrainian Constitution. I understand the Constitution Day is over and I don't give a shit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u227	I'll bet you 430 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:43]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next up, Cimbaluk, 432.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u228	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. With this right, we propose to remove the limitations of the subject’s authority to appoint members to the Supreme Council of Justice because this violates article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine. However, the committee proposes that the Ethical Council be empowered to appoint members of the IDPs on the list of recommended candidates, and in the event of non-inclusion of a person on such a list, such a candidate ceases to participate in the competition. We propose to exclude the mandate of the Ethics Council to put together and send a list of candidates recommended for election (as a member of the High Council of Justice). Then let the Ethics Council clearly name the candidates and approve them. Let's not make a paradox, the Supreme Council is being removed from its constitutional rights at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u229	I'm betting on a vote of 432 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 433. National MP Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u230	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. I'm calling on the committee head. Andriy Evgenovich, our previous discussion was about the introduction of knowingly false data. Kim? A candidate for the Ethical Council, once again, to the Ethical Council. If a person makes a known false statement, can he be a member of the Ethical Council? How good is he doing? And perhaps in addition to his voluntary application, there should be a permanent cessation of authority? And what I have pointed out and reported, criminal responsibility should not deprive him of the fact that he should be deprived of the power of a member of the Ethics Council. As far as I’m concerned, think about it, you’re prescribing that the ethical council will recommend and that this is actually a commitment to the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u231	I'm betting on the vote 433 amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:41]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Amendment 437, People’s Deputy Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u232	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. It's not really about people, it's not about people, it's not even about the judicial system, it's about control of the judicial system. Two groups of influences want to distribute their control. The first is representatives of foreign organizations. And the second is the active power. Representatives of international organizations will exercise this control through the Ethics Council, and the current authorities will exercise control over the judicial branch through disciplinary inspectors. But neither, no. People are going to watch it all, and maybe it's a good TV product and a TV show, but what people don't get is fair, just justice, close to people, understood by people and done to people. We're going to get some competition from these two subjects that I told you about, and people don't care. This law will not result in an honest and just judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u233	I'm betting on a vote of 437. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:11]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 438. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u234	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I wonder, what experience did the authors and drafters of this bill study in Europe? Can at least one European state be named when an institution like the Ethical Council is formed, including foreigners who have a decisive vote? We appreciate the experience of European, American partners in helping to reform Ukraine: technical, scientific and other assistance is very commendable. But they cannot determine who will exercise justice on behalf of the State of Ukraine. And we think that an institution like the disciplinary inspectors is actually leveling the members of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u235	438 axle. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:43]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next line is 439, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u236	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Andriy Evgenovich, please explain why an advisory body, which should actually provide advice, can help – they can be Ukrainian citizens, they can be any public organization – has such unlimited powers? To this day, you plan to give the Ethics Council over-constitutional powers instead of an advisory body. You read the standards that you prescribe that the Ethical Council actually recommends for selection, there is this obligation, there is a list, and there should be appointed members of the High Council of Justice, who are required to appoint an Ethical Council. This is a violation, a direct violation of the Constitution. Please, this is the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u237	I'm betting on the vote 439 amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:14]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Amendment 446, National Deputy Mamka Grigori Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u238	Dear national MPs, you can talk about authority when they are. Authorization is when there is a duty. If you have become such a respected member of the Ethical Council and are given authority, will there be authority? For example, he has the right to conduct interviews. Right is not a duty. So we're letting and not having interviews? Not enough, we moved on, and we moved on very easily. Remember, about 30 minutes ago, I said, “Give the other papers to the candidates, others. ” He said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u239	Amendment 446. The committee's rejected, not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:59]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next line is 449, Mama. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u240	Dear National MPs, well, look, we've got some respectable members of the Ethical Council, but they have access to certain information, to personal data, doing some interviews there. Well, you can imagine, if he gets the information, then for her announcement, well, they have to be responsible, to be responsible. Sadly, though, there is no such responsibility. They can: (a) take the information to make it public, and without any responsibility. My editorial says simple things: Once again, members of the Ethics Council are prohibited from divulging information with limited access in connection with their duties, except in cases established by law. This is an open standard that applies to all such persons. Please support mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u241	I'll bet you 449 votes. It's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:35]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. 450th, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u242	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm not just the head of the committee, and I'm addressing you. And I ask that the committee head explain. We have the Public Information Act today, and the Public Information Act states: Information with limited access. And I'm asking you to write in accordance with the law that information with limited access is because novels like personal data and other information are completely unclear. And this will mean that no one will be held responsible for the disclosure of information with limited access, that is, cannot live on the principle that everything is theirs and others, the enemy is the law. And the rules of law should be in line with the existing legislation and be in line with the Constitution. And I would like to explain to the committee's head why my amendment on the subject of limited information has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u243	I'll bet you 450 Puzichuk's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:07]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next up, Puziyczuk, 451.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u244	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that we have a very intense, interesting discussion. We hear constant responses from the head of the profile committee, deep and thorough. Andrey Evgenovich, please answer the next question. My suggestion is that if a member of the Ethical Council has a potential or a real conflict of interest in such a matter, he should not take part in the consideration of a candidate for the post of High Council of Justice. Why do you reject the simple standard of conflict of interest? Explain. If a member of the Ethics Council has a conflict of interest, why should he take part in the consideration of a member of the High Council of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u245	451. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:38]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 454 correct, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u246	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, as national MPs, you sometimes do not take part in the vote if these votes are about conflict of interest. You claim that you have a conflict of interest -- and you don't take part in the plenary vote at all, in committee meetings. A similar standard should apply to a member of the Ethics Council. If he has a conflict of interest, he should not take part in the vote. And I ask you, I insist that the committee head explain why you reject my amendment, which is logical and will help improve this bill? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u247	I'll bet you 454 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:06]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 455, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u248	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. What we are encouraged to do with this bill. I quote, "At the request of the Ethics Council to support its activities and the work of its members, additional experts and experts from international and foreign organizations may be involved." That is, at the request of some foreigners, other foreigners will be added to help us form the Higher Council of Justice and then to influence the judicial system. You know, I have an offer to the authors of these rights, to the authors of this bill to make a change to the Constitution at the next meeting and to remove the word "superiorty" from the Constitution and the term "Ukraine is a sovereign state." Because unfortunately, everything that's going on right now has absolutely nothing to do with sovereignty. This is not the case in any country of the world that respects itself, which does not consider its own nation to be less valuable, but who relies on national frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u249	I'm betting on a vote of 455. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:38]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 456. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u250	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it is the Supreme Council's Rules that state that between the first and the second readings, the second readings in the session hall are under discussion, where the amendment authors convince the committee representative, the session hall, that this right is the right of approval. And we have the impression that before the second reading, it's all settled somewhere in some office, the main body of the bill, and how it's going to be voted. It's sad, but it's a fact. With 456 rights, I and Julia Timoshenko are proposing in the continuation of our Sergey Vlasenka's speech to rule out the situation that predicted that funding for the activities of the experts involved would be at stake.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u251	I'll bet on a vote of 456 on Cymbaluk's amendment. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:13]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next item. Vlasenko, 470. There's no Vlasenko. Next line is 473. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u252	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you very much for the professional discussion that is unfortunately not available. It's not a discussion then, it's a monologue. But I think that history will determine who was right, and in the future, I think I'll go back to those professional rights. 473. By right, I propose to exclude a position that, contrary to the requirements of article 131 of the Constitution, restricts the right of subjects to elect members of the Supreme Council of Justice. Regrettably, the committee suggests that the vote be held exclusively for the members of the High Council of Justice, who are already included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethical Council. I mean, as far as I'm concerned, alternatives are very, very few.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u253	I'm betting on the vote 473 of the Cymbaluk amendment. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:18]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 474. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u254	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitry Alexanderovich, I address you. Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. "In the event of a violation of the procedure established by this Rules when considering and voting on a draft law, a ruling, another act of the Supreme Council, a national MP, another subject of the right of legislative initiative or his representative may refer to the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for violation of the Rules when considering and voting the matter. The chairman of the plenary should immediately take steps to remedy the violations of the Rules arising from the consideration and voting of the matter, or in the event of obstacles that may have affected the outcome of the vote, to re-vote without discussion by decision of the Supreme Council." And that's because there's no answer to the committee head, that's what's affecting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u255	I'm betting on a vote of 474 Puzichuk's turn. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:50]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 476, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, with my permission, I suggest that we simply adjust our actions so that we do not make mush or butter butter. Because the committee invites us to accept: the vote shall be held exclusively for candidates in the IDP who have submitted documents (of course, by law defined) in accordance with the order laid down in the law, meet the requirements of article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine and are included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethical Council for the election of office. Can I ask you a question? And how is this recommendation going to look? Well, for example, it's a motivational conclusion. Because we cannot allow members of the Ethical Council to refer to Ukrainian citizens who will participate in the competition rather than to people and cannot violate their rights. And what's this going to look like: conclusion, recommendation, resolution, please tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u257	I'm betting on a vote of 476 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:23]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 480. Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u258	After all, I didn't hear the answer, and I'm asking you to give me an answer, because I don't understand as an expert lawyer, so what kind of document would that be? But we have to understand: there's law, there's action, there's signature, then there's responsibility. 480 revisions, I'm recommending that the terms be entered, that the terms be fixed. If the meeting of judges of Ukraine has not been elected by a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Office of the High Council of Justice shall, no later than five days later, publish an announcement on the website of the High Council of Justice, the official portal of the judiciary of Ukraine on the terms and dates of the re-competition. What does the committee offer? If he has not chosen a member of the High Council, how soon? year, two, three, five, eight? - there's no violation of the law. Set a time limit and set a time limit, then the processes will move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u259	I'm betting on a vote of 480 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:53]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 483, Vlasenko. None. 485, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u260	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. It was with this right that we tried to warn the authors of the violation of 131 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. And we think it's sad that this bill has not been taken into account by the committee, because that's exactly what the other positions give rise to when the work of the Constitutional Court is unlocked, it's likely that it's a law that doesn't correspond to certain articles of the Constitution. The committee suggests that the vote be held solely as candidates for the members of the High Council of Justice, who are included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethical Council. We think that's actually the wrong approach. And I'm asking for your license at number 485 to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u261	I'm betting on the vote 485 amendment of the people's representative of Cimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:28]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 486, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u262	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, as prescribed in this bill: that the voting is conducted solely for the members of the High Council of Justice who have submitted the documents in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Act shall meet the requirements laid down in article 6 of this Act and shall be included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethics Council for election as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. And if not recommended, what? This is a violation of the Constitution, because the Constitution clearly foresees who should be elected from whom to the Supreme Council of Justice. And this rule needs to be ruled out, because the recommendations -- they have to be of a recommendational nature, not a mandatory one. And you are now setting a standard. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u263	486 Puzichuk's right. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:04]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 488, Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u264	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, only requests to you have magical effect on the person of the national MP who represents this bill. I ask you a question for the third time: please tell me that the vote is held exclusively for candidates of the IDP who have submitted the documents under the law, correspond to the law and are included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethical Council for the election. What document regulates, can you say? Conclusion, list, motivation? We cannot make unobjective decisions or unmotivated decisions. They must be placed somewhere. What document is there about not including this list, I don't understand. Tell the citizens of Ukraine and the future members of the CFP, and they will participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u265	I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Committee position. Andrew Evgenovich, give an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u266	The committee is supported by another concept of this bill, which is that it is the Ethics Council that conducts a preliminary examination of the requirements, the fulfilment of the requirements of professional ethics and integrity. It continues to recommend a list of candidates from which the bodies provided for by the Constitution will continue to elect or appoint future members of the GWP. Moreover, they will have a choice. The bill provides that the Ethics Council should recommend at least two candidates for each vacant position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u267	Thank you for the complete answer. I'll bet you 488 Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:29]] For-65 No decision taken, no correction counted. Fuck, 492nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u268	Thank you very much! But I want to explain the truth to the citizens of Ukraine. No authority that is not authorized has the authority to carry out the verification. If checked, there must be a form of completion. The form of "non-inclusion" is not provided for by law, it is necessary to tell the truth. The other one. Someone was talking about the constitutional body. Give me a definition in the Constitution, where can I find that article, about the body we're talking about? But it simply does not exist, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And my 492 says that it's still necessary to get the deadlines out of the bill, but it's not limited, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u269	I'll bet you 492 Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:00]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Vlasenko, 494. He doesn't insist because he doesn't. Cymbaluk, 496 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u270	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we continue to stand up for our team's position, which includes prominent lawyers, and we do not agree that the committee proposes to establish that, at the request of the Ethics Council, additional experts and international experts may be involved to support its activities and the work of its members. and by foreign organizations at the expense of these organizations. Respectful colleagues who pay for the music are the ones who order the music. It is vital that this music be in the interests of the Ukrainian State, the people, and the individual judicial branch of power. We believe that it is 496 laws, if approved, that will once again not allow the future Constitutional Court to recognize this law, which goes against the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u271	I'm betting on the vote of 496 of the Cymbaluk amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:24:37]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 497, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u272	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitry Alexanderovich, you know, has moved into the ranks of "ministers of the people," specifically, where they are. I think maybe they'll hear better and still listen to the opposition about what we can't and shouldn't violate the Constitution. There is no need to adopt a bill in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the Rules, which is likely to be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, let's work for the good of the Ukrainian people, because Ukrainian citizens are waiting for justice, and citizens are waiting for the legal system to work. And your repeated attempts to make mistakes are moving Ukrainian citizens away from justice. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u273	I'm betting on a vote of 497 amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:26:05]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 499, National Deputy Mamka Grigori Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill. Some strategy is, is defined. Can we see her somewhere, this strategy? The strategy is to give international partners the same powers to make eye contact with the IDP, and that's it? Is this a strategy? Then open the cards, who wrote them, who recommends this strategy, and where are the lines where it is necessary to work? My amendment basically says what I said before. It is not possible to have two lists: one, provided for by law, and the other, to be included in the list of candidates recommended by the Ethical Council for the election of a member. You can't have two lists, and who. What are you turning off the light? It's Paris again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u275	Don't shout, please, we can hear you very well, Gregory Mikolaiovich. We've been hearing all day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u276	And here the numbers are wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u277	20 seconds, please, the ones you didn't talk to, tops.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u278	It's still necessary to determine by law which list will be correct. If the law list has nothing to do with the list of international partners, why? Please exclude another list, give the law authority, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u279	Thank you. I'll bet you 499 Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:45]] For-59 499 revisions are not supported by the hall. Next line is 503, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u280	My amendment speaks of the setting of terms that should be throughout the bill. Why Termes? Because note what the committee recommends. We are advised by the committee that if the U.S. Attorneys' Conference did not elect a member of the High Council of Justice, a new competition will be announced immediately. And immediately, how much is that? What date? What's your last name? And if the conference didn't come together, who's in charge? No one's answering. So when does the urgency come? It just doesn't exist. I'm saying that if the attorney general's office is out of office or the deadline is up, give me a deadline, announce the competition, post it on the Attorney General's office's official website, and run that process to get people to do their jobs. And so again you enter into the harlot, without terms, without authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u281	I'm betting on a vote of 503 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:25]] Z-62
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u282	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 506 law, Vlasenko. None. 508th, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u283	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, do you need such a bill? You definitely do. Is that the way it is? Ask the General Legal Office, where it is clearly stated that the conclusion of the general conclusion is: "It needs to be further developed and re-readed." The "Paternity" team supports this option. I would really like to see that expert council of experts, judges in retirement, respected people who are actually, and fortunately, in Ukraine who have previously served the people, the state and acted on behalf of Ukraine in the Supreme Court, in the Constitutional Court, in the local courts, and today are retired on deserved rest. Did they work on the bill? And where their name is so we can go with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u284	I'm betting on the vote number 508 of the Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:05]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next line is 509, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u285	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, perhaps you all know that you were in the districts last week, that people are very concerned about tariffs today, the price of gas rising, the price of electricity rising, and not just Ukrainian citizens, and these questions are of great interest to the local self-government authorities that have schools, gardens, hospitals, cultural institutions, education. They will have to pay twice as much for the winter on new tariffs. And instead of working for the benefit of people today, instead of looking at really important bills today, you're trying to use inefficient times, you're now violating the Constitution and the Rules and trying to stretch your next "hotels." Here's this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u286	I'm betting on a vote of 509 Puzichuk's amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:42]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next line 511, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, is it necessary to determine that we are living by law or are we going to live by the lists of the Council of Ethics? Why? Because we do not understand what is the key: Does the Ethics Council make its own list or by law? Ethical work? Well, then let's figure out who's going to join the Ethical Council. In my opinion, the international partners may not be there, but there may not be an Ethical Council, which, unfortunately, is the case in Ukraine with law enforcement agencies, as a living example, the State Bureau of Investigation. Well, let's learn to trust those laws that we vote on, not the Ethical Council. Well, you can't have a decision and a right on the sidelines to regulate the law by hand. My paper says one thing: Let's act accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u288	I'm betting on the 511th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:14]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 515. Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u289	Dear national MPs and members of the future in the IDP, candidates, I would like to ask you what will be considered for the future in this way: to exclude, not exclude from the lists, to choose, to choose, and without explanation. And there's not enough without an explanation, and there's not enough time for an explanation or a decision. Please explain to the bill's rapporteur what is the word "immediately," what is the term? When does it begin, and when does it end? Because the law says "immediately", and I propose terms. Terms that each person should have for the execution or failure of a certain or other authority. Please explain to me where it's "immediately" when it starts and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u290	I'm betting on the 515th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:46]] For-60
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u291	Z-60. The decision is not taken. Next line, Cymbaluk, 518th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u292	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, we propose this right in order not to block the work of the High Council of Justice to set a clear deadline for the body that has chosen or appointed a member of the High Council of Justice to decide on the release of a member of the High Council of Justice. Unfortunately, the committee did not support it. And the decision to apply for the release of a member of the GWP is approved by the majority of the Supreme Council of Justice. Since the date of submission, such a member of the GWP has been removed from office, and his mandate has been suspended - attention! - until the decision is taken by the body that has chosen (assigned). Thus, the committee establishes a mechanism to block the work of the High Council of Justice in general, since such an MPP member is removed from office and there are no clear deadlines for the target (election) subjects. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u293	I'll bet you 518 votes. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:20]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next line is 521. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u294	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. It is proposed to exclude the provision that the Ethics Council, within three months of the approval of its personal composition, shall once again assess the conformity of the active members of the OHR (except the Head of the Supreme Court) elected (appointed) as a member of the High Council of Justice to take effect by this law, the criteria of professional ethics and integrity. And the committee proposes to authorize the Ethical Council within 6 months of the approval of its personal composition to evaluate once again the conformity of the members of the ERP (except the Head of the Supreme Court) elected (appointed) to serve as an EPP member to become effective by this law, the criteria of professional integrity to take office as a member of the High Council of Justice. Order, order, evaluation of relevant active members and candidates, criteria of professional ethics and integrity are defined by the Ethics Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u295	I'll bet you 521 votes. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:47]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next order, Knyazevitch. Are you insisting? 528.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u296	Mr. Head, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask you to give me three minutes in exchange for me to sound all my orders, which are over 300.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u297	How many more lines do you have left?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u298	More than 300. But I'm offering three minutes, if you give me one, I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u299	Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u300	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, well, it seems to me that all the passions that have been torn out here today, all the discussions around how to improve the quality of the members of the High Council of Justice, it doesn't matter. I'll tell you, for those of you who don't know what the members of the High Council of Justice are and how they work. In accordance with the Constitution, the basic powers of the members of the High Council of Justice are to deal with complaints about the involvement of judges and prosecutors in disciplinary proceedings. There was a session room that spoke about prosecutors today. Thus, in order for a member of the High Council of Justice to exercise this constitutional mandate, the High Council of Justice has disciplinary chambers, which include members of the High Council of Justice. As members of these disciplinary chambers, each member of the High Council of Justice has disciplinary inspectors in his patronage. This is the institution of the Watch Tower Society, which assists a member of the High Council of Justice in examining the complaint that has come about bringing disciplinary judges and prosecutors to justice. It is these individuals who prepare all the materials that he has heard in the disciplinary chamber of a member of the High Council of Justice and the position he represents there. What does this bill propose? The bill proposes to eliminate the patronage of disciplinary inspectors and to deprive the members of the High Council of Justice of the possibility of bringing complaints of the responsibility of judges and prosecutors. It continues to be suggested that such an institution should exist, think about it, at the Office of the High Council of Justice under the leadership of the deputy head of the Secretariat. The members of the High Council of Justice will perform an exclusively ceremonial function by dedicating the materials provided to them by the High Council of Justice. They will not be able to participate directly in the consideration of appropriate complaints, as they should do under the Constitution. Hence, it does not matter who will be in the High Council of Justice. These people will not affect anything, they will not investigate anything. They're just going to be the silent statisticians who, once a week or two, when they're considering these issues, first in the Disciplinary Chamber, and then, if there's any questions at the college hearing of the High Council of Justice, they're going to raise their hands. All of this, their authority has ended. That's the whole point of this bill. And everything else around this is just a smoke screen to cover it up. In this way, such a bill cannot be adopted because it essentially destroys this constitutional institution, which is of special constitutional importance as a special body, a joint body in the judicial branch of power. Trust me, it's not just about who's in this body, it's about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u301	Thank you. Don't you insist on the right, on the vote? Okay. I'll bet on it. I don't vote. Okay. Next line 529, Makarov. Look, Oleg Anatoliyovich made a four-minute offer -- and about 20 voting rights. I'm giving you four minutes now, and then we're putting all the changes to the vote. Please turn on the Makarov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u302	Dear colleagues, among other flaws in this bill and among other useful things, there is one very large flaw: it is a proposal to introduce a new institution of disciplinary inspectors as an independent body in the High Council of Justice. I think this chapter is subject to exclusion, it's premature, it carries corruption risks, it's contradictory and ultimately harmful to the bill itself. Amendments to part five of article 27 state that the Department of the High Council of Justice operates as a self - disciplined structural unit formed to exercise the powers of the High Council of Justice regarding the conduct of disciplinary action against judges and prosecutors and acts on the principle of functional independence from the Supreme Council of Justice. In doing so, the arrangements for the formation, financing and interaction of disciplinary inspectors with other bodies of the High Council of Justice and the procedures for action are determined by the provision of disciplinary inspectors, approved by the Higher Council of Justice. In view of the requirements of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I believe that all matters of service activity, including procedural activity, should be defined in the law, not in the position provided for in the draft. The text of the law mentions three different times: the position of the service of disciplinary inspectors, the position of disciplinary inspector, the position of disciplinary inspection. No definition: is that three different positions or is that one position, three times called different in the text of the law? What I'm trying to say is that it's full of horde and vachanal with funding issues. Competitions regarding the financing of disciplinary inspectors include references to the State Service Act and the Supreme Council of Justice. Disciplinary inspectors, according to the bill, are assigned to posts as a result of a competition after the winner of a special inspection in accordance with the Prevention of Corruption Act. However, the project does not contain a position on who disciplinary inspectors are appointed. This indicates that there are signs of legal uncertainty, and thus the failure to comply with article 8 of the Ukrainian Constitution. According to part four of article 28 of the Ukrainian Higher Council of Justice Act, the High Council of Justice is acting on behalf of a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. Instead, the project gives the Disciplinary Inspector a self-sustaining, totally independent status, separate from a member of the High Council of Justice, and powers which, in view of the provisions of article 131 of the Constitution, refer directly to a member of the High Council of Justice. So since this chapter does not regulate who this disciplinary inspector is appointed, how he is financed, what is the basis of his activities, this bill, this chapter contains corruption risks and is contrary to the Constitution. I propose to exclude these articles, and I will put these articles to the vote consistently. They contain other flaws, I am absolutely convinced that this chapter is harmful to the bill itself, and it will lead to the fact that it will not work, and the members of the High Council of Justice will simply lose their constitutional powers in favour of those who do not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u303	I'll bet you 529 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:32]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 534 lashes. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:50]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Five-six-six-six-six. Please identify and vote. 35th, I'm sorry. Stop voting, please 535 revisions. Not the 6th, but the 535th, the Makarov line. Please identify and vote. [[14:49:24]] For-90 Next line is 537th. Please identify and vote. [[14:49:42]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Fifty-six hundred and Please identify and vote. [[14:50:03]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 591 axles. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:20]] For-88 The decision is not taken. It's 603. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:37]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 608 right. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:53]] For-89 The decision is not taken. It's 613. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:10]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 616 right. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:28]] For-90 The decision is not accepted, the amendment is not supported. 625 right. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:48]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 633 lashes. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:07]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 647. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:24]] For-93 The decision is not taken. It's 654. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:41]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The edit is not counted either. Next line, Mom, 532.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u304	Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, this is a failure, a dijitalization. My 535, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u305	Your paper can't be 535 because it's Makarov's.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u306	So let's open the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u307	Did you change your last name during the sitting?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u308	No, no, no. I'd love to. It's not working. It's my turn. It's important not to have sex, Dmitri Alexanderovich, but your last name is fine. I want to stress, after all, what has already been mentioned, that this law, notice, is being done by an individual body that provides for disciplinary inspectors. I want to ask you a question in the hall. Have you found the money for the judges' stamps yet? No, we haven't. And what kind of financial component would that be? With what wages and everything else of this whole institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u309	I'm betting on a 532 vote, Mamas, after all. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:25]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Puziczuk, 540 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u310	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, according to this project, what you claim is that you want to increase the institutional capacity of the High Council of Justice. This should be facilitated by the services of disciplinary inspectors. Are you serious about this? Are you serious? Look, I don't think anyone would mind increasing institutional capacity, but what do you have in mind with this bill? The Office of the High Council of Justice operates as a self-disciplined structural unit formed to exercise the powers of the High Council of Justice regarding the conduct of disciplinary action against judges. I mean, what are you doing? So you're creating an unknown institution, you're empowering judges and you're giving them control. Your Honor, what is the institution of "watchers" doing? Where is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u311	Thank you. I'll bet you 540 Puzichuk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:58]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item is 545 Mamas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, look, it is very simple that the decision to appoint a disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice is taken after the winner of a special inspection competition in accordance with the Prevention of Corruption Act. But what does the committee recommend? That the decision to appoint an inspector of the High Council of Justice is taken after the winner of a special legal examination competition and the verification of integrity and compliance with the ethical standards established for the judge. I'm sorry, the competition's been conducted, the entire commission's ethically has already gone awry, and I've fully explored the family status of the person who lives with: the mother-in-law, the dog, the cat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u313	I'll bet you 545 votes. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:29]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 546, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u314	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again, the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors cannot replace the Supreme Council of Justice and cannot be independent of the Supreme Council of Justice. Read the rule of law that is established for the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice regarding the conduct of disciplinary proceedings against judges, and act on the principle of functional independence from the Supreme Council of Justice. How can it be independent of the High Council of Justice if it is a body created in the High Council of Justice? Explain such absurd things. And how do you think the Constitutional Court will look at this bill? This is certainly a thing that will be canceled in the near future. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-13-m0.u315	I'll bet you 546 Puzichuk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:57]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Dearly authorized representatives of MP factions and groups, please approach the Presidium for a moment.
