ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, we have such a busy plenary day today, so I ask you to prepare for your registration. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the beginning of the electronic registration is necessary over and over again by holding the sensor button and pressing the "Z" button parallel to the green button, to keep them together until the end of the registration, that is, until the results are on the board. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. [[10:02:07]] There are 288 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. Aleksandra Sergiyovich Koltunović, Opposition Platform. Hello. [[Applause]] And Eugene Pavlovitch Pivovarov, "Serve of the People" faction. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we welcome you and wish you good health and the realisation of all your desires for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. All the good things to you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. We have a large list of questions, so it is highly desirable to deal with them quickly today. One second. Dear colleagues, before we go to the question, we have some announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, and according to the minutes of the Assembly of the MPs of the Political Party "Serve of the People" dated November 1, 2021, I report the election of the first deputy head of the political party "Serve of the People" of the People's Deputy Andrija Viktorovich Motovilovitsa. Dear colleagues, and today three years after the death of Catherine Gandzük. It is such a sad and sad date in Ukraine. So for a moment of silence, we'll mention Mrs. Catherine. And we'll expect this crime to be exposed. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, considering this, I would like to remind you that we have a TSC that deals with questions related to the death of Katerina Gandzük. I would very much ask that the report of this interim commission of inquiry be prepared, and you could look at it in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I call it. All of it. Now, dear fellows, we are moving on to the agenda. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. Let us go to their consideration. The first question is the appointment of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies will be present today in the consideration of this issue by the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. I invite you to the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 85, 106 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine submitted an application for the appointment of Reznikov Aleksija Yuriovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, this is the order for consideration of this issue: a statement by the President of Ukraine; then a statement by the candidate for the Ukrainian Defence Minister, up to 7 minutes; then a question to the candidate from the National Deputies, up to 9 minutes; a report from the Professional Committee, up to 2 minutes; statements from the MPs and groups, three minutes for each faction and group; statements from the National Deputies, up to 6 minutes (three minutes for the presentation) and a decision. That's about 40 to 50 minutes to deal with the issue. Is there no objection? None. Then, honourable national MPs, the president of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Head, Alexander, Olena! Good morning, distinguished MPs, distinguished journalists! First of all, I think we should thank Andrija Vasilovich Tarana for everything, and he's done a lot for our army, for our army. In times of war, all our military men give themselves up, give themselves up to the army, give themselves to the protection of our sovereignty, to our territorial integrity, to our Fatherland -- they give themselves completely and completely. That's why there's a notion of rotation, it's not just about fighters. On the forerunner, it is vital to replace those who have given in unreservedly. Change new professional people, as they say, charged by a hundred percent. So once again, I want to thank Andriy Vasilovich. Few Ukrainians are in the Hall of Fame of the U.S. National Defence University, and more specifically one is Mr. Taran. I am sure that his successor has a high potential to become the second outstanding Ukrainian. But this is certainly not a priority for the Ukrainian Defence Minister today. The most important thing is to be in the Hall of Fame of the Ukrainian Fighters, that is, to use undisputed respect among them and to exercise high authority, to strengthen the defensiveness of our army, our army, to ensure that it is important to provide conditions worthy of our defenders and Ukraine's defenders. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I have submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the appointment of Alexia Reznikova as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, vote and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Please take your place. And I call on all the national deputies who care so much about the Rules to pay attention to article 51 of the Rules, which does not, to say the least, welcome. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, the speech is given to the candidate for the post of Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Alexia Yuriovich Reznikov. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u4	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head, members of the presidency, members of the national parliament, Mr. Prime Minister! After the President of Ukraine offered and expressed his personal trust to me in this way to think about the position of Secretary of Defense, I really thought about it. And I've spent a lot of time sorting out my knowledge and understanding of the security situation. In my previous position as a member of the RNB and as a participant in negotiations with the Russian Federation, I have been constantly communicating with our military, intelligence society, and also in dialogue with our international partners. In recent days, I have held dozens of meetings and have mentioned my own experience of serving in the army. I tried to form my own personal vision of what I would have to deal with and what strategy I would choose. Of the many conclusions that have been drawn, two of them have hit me the most. First. The army has the most confidence in society, and the Ukrainians rely more on the Armed Forces than on the church. That's a well-known fact. So the army as an institution, we trust and respect it. But if we look at other facts, it turns out that we don't care enough about a single soldier, a sergeant, an officer, we don't care enough, we treat it unfairly, and we don't respect it, from the moment we get to the military, and even after we've been released, when we don't let the warlords do it, for example, on the routes. The second conclusion. The attitude in many cases is like that soldier, sergeant or officer we only count on once: he came on a contract, the contract ended, and he didn't continue. Or, when a person goes to the front, is held up, supported, and returned from the front, he often finds himself without proper respect and attention. Why is that? This problem did not come about today, not even yesterday. In my opinion, this is because a complete vision has not yet been formed in Ukraine and what kind of defense system we need. There are policy papers already, but there is no such thing as the level of feeling, it's not at the level of the implementation of regulations and so on. Therefore, we often underestimate the weight of decisions to be made, and we do not appreciate the value of justice and respect in the process of military expansion. The war with Russia has been going on for the eighth year, the hybrid nature of the conflict, the military potential of the occupying state, and the security situation in the world require that Ukraine's response to these challenges be complex and adaptable. The cost of escalation must be unacceptable to the aggressor, and the cost, the temporary occupation of our territories, must continue to rise for them. Today, the Ministry of Defense is a civil service. It is his task to form a political and visionary army as one of the symbols of the state, and to create conditions for the Armed Forces to perform their functions effectively – to resist the enemy. The results of the Ministry's activities affect the entire sector and affect the stability of the country as a whole. That is why I accept this position as a great honor, and at the same time I understand the full weight of responsibility. I'm going to mark very briefly the main ways of working as a minister. First. It's a synergy of actions. The Ministry of Defence, the General Staff and the Parliament’s Committee of Profiles should act as an integral part of a single body. The Ministry of Defence should work closely with the Ministry of Strategic Industry. Together, we need to gradually change the structure of the defence budget so that this is the budget of the modern combat army, not the maintenance and nutrition. It should be remembered that a powerful missile program, the restoration of shipbuilding potential, the aviation is not just about defense, it's strategic investment in development, it's about increasing the resilience of cities and regions. Ukraine will only win if it develops. An important component is ensuring synergies with international partners. Military diplomacy in partnership with our MFA will be one of the top priorities. Our land troops are among the strongest on the continent. The Ukrainian Marine Corps is a formidable force. The U.S.S.S. has been mentioned by enemies, and after Afghanistan, G.S.A. knows the whole world. However, there are lacunas in the sphere of antiaircraft, missile defense, and they need a substantial increase in aviation and fleet. We need to be very pragmatic about where to focus on the development of our own abilities and where it is rational to involve help. We're going to work systematically to improve compatibility with NATO countries, we have a lot of space to expand practical cooperation with the Alliance. As part of a strategic relationship with the United States, there is a need to fill in the content of the arrangements established during a visit by the President of Ukraine to Washington. The interaction with Britain, Canada, Poland, Turkey has enormous potential. We have common interests with the Baltic countries, Romania is our neighbour, whose safety in the Black Sea is equally important. This is a joint task with the President's Office and our diplomats. The second most important trend is people. We need to change our approach to human resources policy, look at the Armed Forces as a powerful employer who competes for the best in competitive conditions that care for people from the point of choice of profession and adaptation after service. That's the only way we're going to form a truly professional army. If we want to make two armies. The army, sorry, had the ability and motivation needed adequate conditions of service so that people could see the prospect of no dilemmas: serving or returning and preserving their family. The third direction is to improve the quality of management. My first step will be to fully audit the Ministry, analyse internal processes and documentation. The Ukrainian paper army must remain in the past. Special attention will be paid to the organization of defence purchases according to the law that took effect this year. It is also necessary to complete the delimitation of powers between the Ministry and the Armed Forces and eliminate any duplication. To sum it up. I have spent two years in negotiations with the Russian side on various sites and I will say on my experience: a strong army is one of the most powerful diplomatic arguments in the peace process. We want peace, we want to bring back Crimea and the occupied territories of Donetskina and Lugansk -- we need to increase the country's resilience and resilience. We are all with you, however it may be, servants of our people, and the voice of each of you on security issues is not just about solidarity, it's about responsibility and trust, it's about life and the future of our Fatherland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u5	Thank you, Reverend Alexi Yuriovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies. And once again, I remind you that part of the first article of the 51st Rules, I quote, "People's deputies are prohibited from bringing to the sitting room and using posters, slogans, speakers, other items that are not intended to provide legislative activity." Therefore, I ask once again to abide by the Rules in Parliament's walls. Thank you. From the procedure? The Gethmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u6	Dear Chairman, thank you for your observation, in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules. And I want to draw my colleagues' attention to the regulatory committee, and I want to ask the regulatory committee to evaluate the representatives of one of the factions that has a person who's the biggest expert on offshore issues in Ukraine who's been using these offshores all his life, taking out the government money he's been stealing throughout his political life in our country, and giving an appropriate legal assessment, and bringing them to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u7	The question is given to Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u8	Good afternoon! Thank you. Finally, this is really a question that we've been looking at in the hall for over a year, and we've been waiting for the Secretary of Defense to change. And even though there's some rocking going on, I know that Mr. Resnick's going to be very difficult, I wish you had a good sleeper in your office. I'm sitting here, Mr. Reznikov, yes. I have three questions for you. First. Your vision of the division of powers between the Commander-in-Chief and the Secretary-General of Defense? There were some problems in communicating with the predecessors. Your position? Well, of course I can't help but say for food. You are well aware that D.B.R. Halimon's suspicions have been reported to the state councilman. Are there changes planned, all of them? And your position on the construction of the entire military infrastructure, which is over 600, and over 2.5 years, nothing has been done, except that there is actually destruction from barracks to stadiums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. I was at a meeting yesterday with a profile committee that I plan to work with on a permanent basis. And we talked about a lot of critical issues that need to be addressed, and five pages of advice was written down. And we agreed that, along with the committee, we would do all these things: both construction and procurement and food and so on. The tolerance for corruption will be zero in the Ministry, and so will we, along with the Commander-in-Chief in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. With regard to decision-making. They will be accepted. I'll be after, if you support me, the honourable national MPs, first of all, I'll start with a staff meeting, a conversation. You'll find out about all the personnel decisions, and it'll be completely public and public. Those warnings that you have in mind will certainly be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u10	Thank you. Please, Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, one second, we're just going to have time. After that, I'll give you one minute out of the procedure. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u11	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head! Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u12	I heard. To the nominee, Alexander Koltunović, we give the word. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u13	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for your greeting. Mr. Secretary-General, I'd like to ask you two further questions. The first question is about the shameful events that have taken place in Ukraine’s many years of independence. I'm talking about explosions at warehouses. This is a difficult problem. Temporary investigators and special commissions were created, many different things were created, many discussions. Are you ready, or do you have the political will to put a stop to these questions? Because of the charges, the higher management of the Ministry of Defence was charged with these matters. That's the first question. The second question is, it's partly related to your previous activity. It refers to paragraph 2 of the Minsk Treaty Implementation Package, which refers to the distribution of heavy weapons 50-70 kilometers according to the line of delimitation. Are you willing to continue to follow this principle and continue to meet other requirements? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u14	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In terms of warehouses, arsenals. We also talked about this at a meeting of the profile committee yesterday. It's a violent problem. But there is one positive moment. The main difficulty today is the court cases that freeze the possibility of building and dealing with arsenals, where my former colleagues in the field, lawyers, serving certain private structures are stalled in court cases and are not able to build and build arsenals. So it's going to be a little easier for me here, but I'm a professional lawyer and in my previous reincarnation I've been doing practically legal practice, so I think I'm going to give myself an understanding and a team, and we're going to fix this story, and with the arsenal we're going to be. This is one of the priorities. As far as the Minsk Accords mentioned by you are concerned. The Minsk Accords are three, just very often forgotten: the protocol, the memorandum and the package of measures to implement the protocol and the memorandum. This is something that is often forgotten. So the mine course is left as a logistics site in Normandy, which is known because it was created by the Normandy format. There is a powerful Ukrainian delegation led by Leonid Makarovich and your fellow national deputies. The President's decision to proceed with the work of this delegation will be determined. But I'll tell you what, we're making a package of arrangements. But in advance, according to the relevant UN Statute, each state has the right to self - defense and self - defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u15	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u16	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity, ATO. I have a question for the candidate. What is your attitude toward the Old Man when our military frees the population and lets them leave? The second question. How do you plan to address the issue of wages and so-called fighting debts? And the third question. Knowing you're going to be offered a defense minister, was your vote heard during the 22nd year budget, for example, to raise salaries for military personnel, or did you propose to increase the defense order? And tell me, how did you feel about your suggestions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy, for asking. I'll go downstairs. I am a member of the National Security and Defence Council, where, separately, a decision was taken to increase the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, and I voted in favour of it, of course, and this was taken into account by the government when preparing the draft budget for introduction into the session room. As for wages, this is another priority when I said in the second chapter about people, justice should be in the army with respect to our officers, sergeants and soldiers, and a decent reward for money is one of the criteria for this justice. Of course, we need to work on this because today we need to make the army the best employer, which means offering market conditions. And about the operation that happened. I'm not going to comment on this right now, it's not right on my part. I'll talk to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, get all the details, and then I'll be able to give that assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u18	Thank you. And please, National Deputy Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u19	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u20	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u21	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Alexi Juryovich, first of all, wanted to thank you for a very constructive and fruitful conversation at yesterday's meeting of the profile committee. And I have a question that's good enough. In recent days, the Ministry of Defence has made significant changes to the National Defence Order. These are very large amounts of money and very important changes. I'd like to hear your position. You're going to insist on calling off these changes so you can look at them and make sure they're okay? Will you insist that the committee of profile comply with existing legislation immediately agree with it as required? Why? Because the changes were made by your predecessor and you will have to take responsibility for them. So I would like you to make it clear that you agree with these changes as to whether you will look at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u22	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. The legal profession has taught me not to draw conclusions based on assumptions, just facts. I'm going to study this presentation first, these changes, and I'm going to ask the profile committee to discuss them. And we're going to make the right decision with you, and I'm going to implement it by signing it. I can't evaluate these changes right now, they're positive or negative, but I think it's thanks to working with the profile committee and with the General Staff, with the Commander-in-Chief we're going to handle this challenge with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u23	Thank you. And the final question, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u24	Give the word to Costenko Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u25	Roman Costenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u26	Thank you very much. Alexi Juryovich, I'm going to have a question of this nature, what you said today, that you've already analyzed the military budget, and, in fact, it's now bigger than last year, but we all see by analyzing it that it doesn't even reach the minimum needs. Please tell me if you're going to insist or take any steps to actually increase it, because, in fact, the minimum needs we have before the challenges we have, they won't give us the opportunity to reach an army that will be able to meet the Russian Federation normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. Before submitting, Mr. President interviewed me and gave me some expectations and priorities. Without disclosing the secret of this communication, I'm going to reveal one thing, Mr. President, with your permission, is to ensure that wages are levelled, that money is provided in the army. And that's exactly what I'm going to do, because once again, at this point in time, the level of financial security doesn't meet the real conditions. That's why it's a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed this discussion block. One minute out of procedure. But I'm warning you, only from the procedure. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Mr. Zelensky, we are happy that your faction raises the issue of the Rules and Procedure for your participation in Parliament. We would like to remind you that for a week there has been a decision by the Regulatory Committee regarding the immediate removal of Mrs. Tretiakov and her removal from the session hall for five days in an improper statement. We very much ask you, Mr. Zelensky, to contact the chairman of the Supreme Council so that immediately after considering the important issue of the appointment of the Minister of Defence, it is a regulatory issue that Mrs. Trelyakow should be removed from the sessions. And we're also glad that the Rules, now that you have this subject, Mr. Stefanchuk, the Head of the Supreme Council, started his work by violating the harsh Constitution, the Rules, when they passed the law without any amendment to the opposition. We appeal to you, make a dedication to this law, and with your suggestions to the hall, pass it so that you do not violate the law of the so - called law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u30	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, to the words for the co-report. Please take your place. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, Mr. Alexander Mihajlovich Zawidnevich, is invited to speak for the co-report, within 2 minutes. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u31	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor's colleagues, Your Honor's journalists! In accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on November 3, 2021, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Reznik's Minister of Defence of Ukraine (registration No. 6267), submitted by the President of Ukraine. The draft regulation proposes, in accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the appointment of Reznikov Aleksija Juriovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. As a result of the discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision No. 6267 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u32	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. In accordance with the Rules, honourable national MPs will proceed to discuss the matter. I'd like the factions and groups to sign up for the performance, three minutes for the faction and the group. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u33	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u34	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we have 700 people dead today from the Coronavirus, more than yesterday. This is the highest death rate of COVID-19 in the world, in the world. We've got hospitals all over us, and you know it. We don't have enough oxygen, and that's the result of champions' work to fight the coronavirus. We enter the heating season with a record low coal supply of 500,000 tons instead of the 2 million 800,000 needed for the beginning of the season. We have a record low gas supply. And in these circumstances, you still agree to give Cologne gas 20 billion dollars. You know, people are afraid of cold batteries and not for nothing. Because the country today is saving Belarus from the fissures. No, not Belarus. Everyone knows he's saving Putin. Does Putin do it for free? No, it's not. Evidently, he knows that they will come to him and ask him to rescue him. You are giving up the village of Staromarievka, which the Ukrainian military has occupied at the cost of their lives. But you're giving it up because, again, you want to please and make a deal with Putin, you're dreaming about it. Perhaps this policy in two and a half years is the policy of the greatest leader of the world. There are a lot of questions in countries about how to solve these problems? Because these are obvious problems. In the country there is a question of power, where are the $40 million that were taken out along with Colomoysky, from which taxes were not paid? But instead of answering these questions to the country, you're offering a show and a series of clips. That's from a show in a public house. Oh, I'm sorry, in a public institution called the Cabinet of Ministers, today they're putting on a bed, it's just a show. Because we have one person in charge of politics, and he is present in this room today. I want him to speak honestly about the results of this work. You're preparing a series of counter-oppositions, because you know you're facing cold winter, terrible negotiations that could end for the country with a policy of surrendering and implementing the Steinmayer formula. And that's why you want to offer people a new mask show here in Parliament, some other suspicions of opposition or all those MPs who dare to criticize you. You're talking about the Rules, the legislation? So the operation of the Wagnerians, which were actually merged by these people, by giving Putin the killers of the Ukrainians. It's a legislative regulation because your commission is a proponent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u36	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u37	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, dear Ukrainians! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". A strong army is the best tool for diplomatic negotiations. The war in the east has been going on for eight years, so the defense minister’s office is one of the key ones in our country. Since 2014, more than 13,000 people have been killed by fighting in Donbas. In general, the war directly affected millions of Ukrainians. Therefore, a person who can and can make complex and operational decisions should be appointed as a minister of defense. Mr. candidate, today we're giving you this credit of confidence and asking you in the presence of the President of Ukraine that the number one priority for you should be to secure our army's weapons, to provide food for our army so that the people in the East will be able to secure both physical and spiritual, I and the military chaplains here, and to ensure that our defenders understand what they're risking their lives in the East and their families have been waiting for them for months. The second important thing is that we have families, our protectors' families, and this is the construction of housing for our military personnel. Many of the family’s military dormitories are unbuilt. It's not because maybe this isn't how the construction department works, it's because of the lack of funding. The Department of Defense is working well, just take care of the funding to make a step toward the families of our defenders. Renovate military towns, many of them all over the country: in Lvivščina, Stryu, Kamyanci-Buzki, Yavorov, there are military towns, repair them, and show the families of the military that the state cares and remembers them. And that's when, I think, all of us together, the whole country and the military will be grateful for your work. You have a job to do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u38	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u39	I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of mine, Mr. Devwaychenk Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u40	Valentin Nastavichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u41	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear Mr. President, Your Honor Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, our dear protectors, the soldiers of Ukraine, our pride, our strength and glory! But we want to see you here in this room right now, your military commanders, we want to honor you. We don't like the empty rostrum, Mr. President, that there are no military men who can and have the right to hear instructions from you, from a new candidate to ministers. What are the guidelines, what can we, and above all, want to help the country’s defense? We know it's been approved for 45 days. How? But you never heard of it, Mr. Alexia, what you must do for the defense, and the approved security bulletin approved by the Security Council and the President of Ukraine. And we know that the five defenses of the country require the efforts of Parliament. I'm talking to the whole Parliament, we as Fatherland don't divide Parliament into factions on such matters. The first is the Russian aggression and the defense of the country. How and how can we help? The second is military personnel, family members, wages, housing, service housing, housing to give to children for life thereafter to anyone who has served. Volunteers, hospitalists, all those who have protected and protected our country, who with them, how will the Secretary of Defense honor them and protect them? We have the answer: We need to provide them with funding, social benefits. Once and for all: you have protected the country -- we will protect you for the rest of your life as a state, power, parliament and government. Next, international cooperation. In fact, there is nothing good about the fact that the U.S. Secretary of Defense was in Ukraine when he first visited the United States. We are waiting for a strategic commission of defence and security, cooperation between Ukraine and the United States -- and at this time, the minister is changing. We did not hear from the new candidate, but what will we do with our strategic partners. In NATO, when you're there in Brussels, in what language, and above all, what will you tell our international partners about: first, helping Ukraine's security; second, bringing us, our Armed Forces, closer to NATO standards? We want to see Ukraine as a NATO member, we know how to do it. What are your suggestions and suggestions if you are assigned to this position? And most importantly, my friends, we ask that once and for all to remove doubts about what is at the top of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u42	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u44	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u45	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head, colleagues of the Ukrainian people's deputies! Today, the army uses the highest trust among Ukrainians. I, Mr. Alexia, sincerely wish you would not disappoint our citizens. I have the honour to know you for more than 20 years, surprised by the offer to accept this unique but highly responsible position. I sincerely wish you success and wish you well, and to advise you to be responsible, responsible in words, responsible in actions, so that the tasks that you put before you and your subordinated authority are realistic, defensive, reinforcing today. The cloudy prospect of joining NATO, I wouldn't give up now and then, would enhance the Ukrainian army's defenceability by the Ukrainian forces. I find it unacceptable that two words like "corruption" and "army" stand next to you. I truly believe that the period was over when, instead of building and buying for the army of tanks at the Malishev factory, the boats were purchased at the Lenin cousin's. And I'm sorry, not to tell you about the offshore. I want you to find the answers to a question that hurts me: who blew up the military arsenals. I was entrusted with eliminating the effects of the explosions in Novogoddanówka, where rescue workers died. To this day, we don't know who blew up these warehouses, from Artemovska to Kalinovka. Please, and I even demand answers to these questions. An effective soldier and an officer is the one who's fine at home: apartment and salary, wife, mother, children. You have to do everything you can to get a soldier to work, and an officer, to know that his house is warm and in harmony. Retirement of military personnel We can't share pensioners until 1991, and after 1991, they're all our military pensioners. And, of course, observe the traditions of our army. The day after tomorrow will be the day of Kiev’s deliverance. The General of the Army, Vatutina, is a monument to the Ukrainian people. Let us honor our traditions. There will be no dispute when World War II began in Ukraine, in 1938, after the Munich Conspiracy in Uzhgrad, or in 1939 in Poland. June 22nd, May 9th is a holy date. And, above all, protect the lives of our citizens, restore peace to our country, what you have not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u46	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u47	Klimenko, "Justice." Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u48	Please, Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u49	Samantha Bobrowski, Justice Union. First of all, I would like to point out in the presence of the President and the President's Office that it is wrong to dismiss ministers without hearing their employment report. And yesterday all these ministers were supposed to be sitting here, starting with a minister of defense who was supposed to report for his one-and-a-half-year job. Only then can we move on to what we have before the appointment of new ministers. Next. Unlike the predecessor here, I am more than convinced and will say yes, and ask both defence ministers to maximize their integration and interaction with NATO, and NATO standards should not just be on paper. When the commanders can't get out of their offices, the commanders are piled up with papers that they have to sign 24 by 7 on weekends, and they can't work with their fighters and work with their boys. Moreover, I am more than asking that virtually all our species and forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be certified in this country. So it's not just the Special Operations Force units that have the right to participate in the NATO Response Force today. This should be all our Armed Forces and as quickly as possible, go through the learning data and be ready to interact. Next. Problem number two or contract number three. Do you know how many military personnel are dropping out who do not want to continue their service and the second actual contract becomes a problem for them, or the third contract? And it's because the state actually refuses as the main employer to give them (a) social security and (b) a decent salary. Do you have any idea how much we're going to get a new lease? What's the amount and what's the value of this fighter, who's fantastically professional in all four parts of the job, who becomes a long-range fighter in any country today or tomorrow, but not in Ukraine, an operator of the Special Operations Force. It's fantastic money. And I'm very sorry that this is one of the lowest wages today. I'm going to ask you to pay attention to that, if we really do allocate and have this tool in our hands. Next. Food and construction of military objects They're already tired of talking about it, but if there's no zero tolerance for corruption, I think this should be the first step until the new minister's resignation begins. State defense order. Not to be overlooked is the extent to which it has been broken down and the strong and shared work with the professional viceroy who hopes will be appointed and will be diametrically different from Urussky. And two other important things. I want the Secretary of Defense to try the parachutes that our military personnel are jumping with and to understand that this is a huge collapse situation that is now in the Armed Forces. And certainly raise the issue of a discussion in Ukrainian society to sign contracts for women and men in reserve service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u50	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mealik Viktor Nichiporovich, the Group "For the Future", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u51	Please give it to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u52	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, let's put our hands on our hearts and let's be honest that no one in this room, including the President, knows what will be the Defence Minister, Alexy Yuriovich Reznikov. But we know exactly that this is one of the most experienced members of the government, and yesterday he stopped being a member of the government, and today he will become one again. He was the deputy head of the Kiev City Administration, the secretary of the Kiev City Council, was the minister, the vice - prime minister, and he even served in the desert, which he could not but rejoice. But he would have to know exactly how to deal with these shameful phenomena that are in everyone's mouth today, how to make us forget about the January defense order, in a good sense forgotten, because he was approved by the committee and started working, the apparatus, the acquisition of technology, the equipment, the weapons that our Armed Forces so need today. In order to make us forget forever that we have GAS-66 in art units, with more high-powered batteries, and that normal high-quality technology only runs in the classrooms. So that we can forget about these shameful phenomena, like the food that is written and spoken of by everyone and everyone who is interested in the situation in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And people who are involved in soldiers eating all kinds of shit would be in jail, not in government offices. And he needs to know exactly what to do with the military parts that are practically in every district and district center of our state, like in Smily -- in the center of the city of 22 ha, artpolk is former. And yesterday we celebrated artillery and rocket warfare day, and we can't do anything for seven years, and I'm a national deputy, because it's the property of the Ministry of Defense. And once again, I'm sure that these military towns are practically in every city. The answer to these questions will positively mean that the minister of defense is in his place. And the main thing. If, at the end of your cadence, Alexi Juryovich, we do not give up any of the Ukrainian lands or just march within our Ukrainian territory, rather than the zone of delimitation, then every Ukrainian member of the family of the dead will say thank you. If not, unfortunately, you will achieve the same share as all your predecessors. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u54	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilyev Igor Sergiyovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u55	Please hand over Marianne Besogly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u56	Mariana Volodymyrical Toothless, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u57	Yesterday, really, there was a productive meeting on the committee, and I'm glad that at least at the committee level, we have a lot of interfractional work, including interfractional work. Because as far as our Armed Forces are concerned, the defense of the country should be one in all factions: the glory of Ukraine! So during our meeting and generally at work, we determined the basic priorities of our cooperation with the future minister. And, Mr. future minister, I hope the hall will support you, please keep in touch with the committee, and then we can do amazing things. We can solve the problems that have accumulated in less than a year and not two years, the problems that have accumulated in the 30 years of our country's development, particularly the issue of defence purchases. Yes, there was a lot of talk about defense of procurement, but just in 2019, right after this Parliament began its work, the committee's first priority was the law. And when they ask me what with the state defense order, I have a question, and why hasn't it changed, and there hasn't been a de-bureaucratization of the state defence order in 2015 or 2010, I don't say anything anymore, or in 2017? Only when we actually did an audit in 2019 did the Law on the Defense of Purchasing form as soon as possible. And despite all the problems, despite the risks that we face in the next one or two years, we're still going to move on to a new system -- a system that's less shadowy, a system with less corruption risks, a system that's more understandable, a system that's more efficient. Of course, money was raised, and that's one of the main priorities. And I have a question: why has the reform of the rating system been blocked over the years? Why did the salaries of military personnel simply rise in manual mode, but the system did not change? On holidays, on any dates, but the system hasn't changed? And it's in 2022 that we put in the next budget a new system of financial security. Deburocratization, even basic electronic documentation, logistics, NATO, housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll move on to the last block, then we'll move on to the decision-making process. We still have, according to the Rules, speeches by national deputies in six minutes, these are two speeches. That's why I'm asking the national deputies to sign up. The word is given to Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Who are you handing over, Dmitri?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u59	Yes, I'd like to give the word to Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u60	Buzanski Maksim Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u61	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, my fellow Members, this is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, this is the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, so we are all talking about what matters to him, to all of us, except one faction, who is going to be the Minister of Defence and how this will benefit our state. I'm sorry, I don't understand what Mr. Putin is doing here, we're talking about Ukraine, we're talking about our own army, we're talking about our own state. Can we talk about this without this "squeezing hand, hugging"? Without a hug and a handshake, it's too late for us right now, we're talking about our own business. Dear colleagues, if you've been asked to hold something, keep your mouth shut, don't interrupt, please, because this is a very important matter. I urge each and every one of you to support the proposal. Yes, I hope that Mr. Reznikov will work well in this position, in constant communication with Parliament: all Parliament, all factions. Because there is no faction of the Armed Forces -- there are the Armed Forces of our nation. I want us all to feel that way. I urge you all to support this assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u62	The word is given to National Deputy Kostenek Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u63	Please hand over Sergio Ivanovich Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, we are living in an extraordinary stormy time when a minister can become anyone. Anyone can become -- not everyone can be. And unfortunately, we have two ministers who were responsible for the most important areas of our lives, for national security, which I think have failed. One question really arises. Why did this personnel rotation, which was obvious, take place now, not at least a year ago, when the violent inadequacy of officials in positions of office was understandable to all who had ears, eyes and common sense? The second question that we cannot help but ask is, Why can't we see these people who are being removed from office here and not hearing their reports? Because that's how this human resources procedure is devoid of logic, because it's not only disrespect for the Supreme Council, which I recall is controlled by government and government under the control of the Supreme Council. It's disrespect for the people who elected us, and it's disrespect for the people who defended our country on the front that died, their family and loved ones. What is today’s Secretary of Defense? First of all, it's a responsibility. What Is Responsibility? This means that the person who holds this post should look like a state husband, not an alien who has fallen behind from the stars and has become the minister of defense in a strange way. What Is Responsibility? Responsibility is when the defence industry provides the military with everything necessary, in due time, and in due course. Not when we have a chaos procedure at the end of the year called "let's buy something because the money is going to burn." What Is Responsibility? Responsibility is that when military arsenals are repaired, equipped and protected, and not circled in a semi-detached state, it is only because two of them are squandering among themselves, whose company will enter the market and win the state's money. What Is Responsibility? The answer is when our high-powered, high-efficiency industry provides new weapons, rather than telling us that it, our high-powered industry, is capable of cooking only two shells a year. I very much want a new successor, a new secretary of defense, to be worthy of this position. I really want him to succeed. And one more thing. Responsibility is respect, respect for people who have given their lives and health to the front, responsibility to the living, responsibility to the dead and responsibility to the unborn, because every human being is an unborn child. And if human change had happened a little earlier, maybe we would have saved some of our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u65	Thank you. And the final performance is Frez Irina Vasilovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u67	Please, Geo Bagratovich Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u68	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Good afternoon, Mr. President! I see your German is here, too. I want to tell you that I'm not afraid to tell the truth. You can spend as much time on me as you want with your law enforcement organs, taping the case, but I'm not afraid to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u69	Please, on the subject of the speech, Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u70	You're the head traitor in the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u71	Turn off the microphone, please. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we've finished our speeches, we're moving on to making a decision. Please, Mezentzevo Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think our meetings are just looking at Ukrainians. Dear colleagues, they are also viewed by our international partners. Every time the Ukrainian Parliament proves its inadequacy in its consideration of issues on the subject. Our colleagues allow themselves to analyze or give subjective assessments to other politicians, Hamites, and not to express themselves within the framework of the Rules, Respect, and Parliamentary Ethics. I ask the regulatory committee to follow up on the actions that have now been taken by the Ukrainian People's Deputy. This rule applies to each of us. Colleagues, we shouldn't be acting like this. All regions of Ukraine are represented here. I'm asking the regulatory committee to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with articles 85, 106, and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of Reznikov Aleksija Yuriovich as Ukraine’s Defence Minister. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:33]] For 273 Decision taken. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, may I? Let's say hello to Alexi Yuriovich. Show the factions, please. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of oaths. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Alexy Yuryovich Reznikov, is invited. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u74	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Reznik's Alexi Yuriovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. I swear. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u75	Heroic glory! Alexi Juryovich, welcome. Thank you, Your Honor. That's the question we're done with. And the President of Ukraine. Thank the President of Ukraine for taking part in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Motovlover's out of procedure. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? In accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I propose a change in today's order of work of the Supreme Council. This is to work today before the conclusion of the bill (registration number 5460) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on increasing costs of purchasing, designing and installing oxygen stations. I ask you to put this question to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u78	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. In accordance with the Rules, we can briefly discuss the procedural proposal. What other factions do they want to discuss? European Solidarity, Voice, Fatherland, Opposition Platform for Life. Then it's all right to the left. Not two minutes. One minute, please. "European Solidarity", Irina Heratchenko. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor. First, I want to remind you that "European Solidarity" and "The Voice" have initiated an extraordinary session on the adoption of the Law on the need to allocate funds for oxygen stations. And we suggest we hold this session from 12 to 12:30. Thank you to all the factions, and to the Fatherland, and to the Trust, and to the Future, and to the PRTRs, and to the representatives of the "servants," who signed our address, and to the Vicespers. And the second. I want to remind you that you've changed the rules of the Supreme Council. At first, Parliament worked until the 18th. First of all, you've reduced your job to 15 hours. And now every day, you demand that the order of the day be exhausted. We propose to return the Rules and generally the tradition that existed in Parliament while there were no "servants" who voted in favour of this decision, which made changes to the Regulation, which is to work for 15 hours, and not to set it up every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Voice, Sosun Inna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u81	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course I am very grateful to the faction of the majority for their willingness to adopt the bill that I initiated to finance the installation of oxygen stations in Ukraine. This question is urgent. It was urgent, frankly, six months ago. And it's a shame that we're just about there to adopt this bill. At the same time, I would now like to address the majority representatives, remind them that there are the signatures of 155 people's deputies to convene an extraordinary meeting. And we're very much asking this question to be resolved as quickly as possible. I don't understand why the issue of ratification of international agreements is higher than the question of setting up oxygen stations that the hospital is in urgent need of right now. So I'm asking you very much to call, if you have to, an emergency session at 12:00, or to move the bill early so that we can look at it as quickly as possible to get this bill into work. There's no reason to wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u83	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction's proposal for the chairman to ask right now the first question about the consideration of more than 150 signatures for the immediate consideration of oxygen stations. I don't think there's a more important question to protect human lives. So I ask you to put it to the vote immediately, and I'm going to look at all the other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the honourable presidency, we are calling on the plenary to consider the removal of Mrs. Tretiakov from the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, in this case after consideration of the personnel matters, without voting on the order of the day decision of the regulatory committee. This shame is still on your jackets. Dear colleagues, vote on this issue and let us work with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u86	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Ah, Sergey Shahov, please, "Trust." Chess, "Trust" and then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u87	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, the appointment of ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister is very good, but the main thing is the life of Ukrainians today. And we're also asking to confirm and support our colleagues immediately put the bill to the vote. And I also want to contact the Minister of Health right away and give you a license for the technical oxygen that we have today in the North Korean "Azoti", the Czech "Azoti", the Equinox "Azoti". Please tell me, who can solve this? Doctors today beat us up and call us: National MPs, help people, help hospitals. 70 percent of hospitals today are without oxygen, and we have its sea on these businesses that can provide it. Get a license for technic oxygen! Give life to the people! Give people the opportunity today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Shahov. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life", Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're making an offer and, uh, attention, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Head and First Deputy, I'd like to make a specific suggestion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u90	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u91	Please put to the vote the question of speeding up the consideration of Bill No. 5460 immediately. We have this opportunity. And I ask you to put this to a vote, and let the Supreme Council of Ukraine determine. I think that the issue of providing our citizens with concentrators and oxygen is more important than personnel issues, but that human resources issues, their consideration, are not denied. And Bill 5460, I urge you to put it to the vote immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u92	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. A similar total offer was made by Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. Can we put your proposals together in one vote so that we do not vote twice? Thank you. Now the Gethmans, "Serial of the People," then Mrs. Olena Constantine, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the issue of oxygen stations is very important, and we suggest that we consider it today. But we don't have the right questions for the day. I'll remind you of the context, and I'll remind you that we've been looking at budget amendments for the first time in seven years before the first reading of the demand for opposition that wasn't worried about oxygen stations or about other issues. To this day, you and I have accumulated many questions that the country is facing. So I ask the honourable colleagues to continue the consideration of today's session as required by Mr. Motovílovec, and to consider, including the Oxygen Station Act today, as well as other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u94	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Please, Olena Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues at the Presidium, I ask you to listen to the real problems that people are now interested in. We'll be able to assign all the candidates to the ministers today. Please join me very much in the proposal made by the majority of the majority of the so-called monolithic fraction, and consider Law 5460 on oxygen stations right now. Please listen and support all factions, including "ministers of the people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u96	Thank you, Olena Constantine. So we have two proposals for a vote, I'll put them in order of coming. Andrew Motovilovac's first offer, to change the agenda. Today's change in the working order of the Supreme Council, which is to work today until the conclusion of the Bill on Registration Number 5460 on Amendments to the State Budget Act of 2021 on increasing spending on the purchase, design and installation of oxygen stations. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:18]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next suggestion is to stay in the current order of the day session, which exists, but to change the order of affairs. And now directly or after the staff? Now let's take a direct look at question 5460. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[11:15:57]] For 336 Thank you. Decision taken. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u97	Thank you. I already am. Now I'm going to find that question. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, I understand that given the importance of this issue, no one will insist on their amendments, right? Sussun's just going to insist? We're voting, aren't we? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill of 5460 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on increasing spending on the purchase, design and installation of oxygen stations. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:18:16]] For 336 Decision taken. Hello. The law is passed in general. It came from two. Wait a minute, I have a letter. Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u98	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, thank you so much for supporting the bill, it's really important. I am very grateful to all those who have joined in making this bill a reality. Now I would like to ask the chairman to sign the bill as soon as possible so that he becomes a reality for Ukrainian patients and Ukrainian hospitals so that we don't push this question any further. I am very grateful for your support in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u99	Please, I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that from this question or from another? Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u100	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, of course, this is a bill that everyone, without exception, signed and supported in order to provide oxygen for the sick today, is such a union in Parliament. It's very important. But at the same time, I'd like to go to everyone right now that those stations that are moving in as humanitarian aid, like for example, charity aid, including from our team, they've been certified for five months. We can't get the certificates to the oxygen station for five months for the Plain area. And I'd like the Prime Minister here, Mr. Schmigal, to address you, please simplify all procedures for the certification of oxygen stations that have been introduced by the non-government. And I'm asking you to pay attention. And we are convinced that the people themselves will provide oxygen stations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u101	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. So I'm voting on Mrs. Sosun's proposal, yes, Mrs. Inna Sosun, to entrust the Head of the Supreme Council with the immediate signing of a bill (registration number 5460) amending the Law on the State Budget for 2021 on the purchase, design and installation of oxygen stations, taking into account the social significance of the bill and the importance of initiating the design and installation of the bill immediately. Please vote. [[11:21:41]] For 333 Decision taken. The factions, please. Thank you. Please, Motovilover. Peter Alexiovich, please. Let's take a break. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u102	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Well, that worked really well. I want to thank European Solidarity for this fantastic initiative on oxygen stations. I want to thank the Voice. It is so cool when we join together to do such things. I want to thank the Fatherland for signing and actively engaging in this fight. It's a very rare case where I want to thank "For the Future," thank "Trust," and, God forgive, thank the OIC. I thank those brave people from the "Serve of the People" faction who have signed signatures that have given us the opportunity to make that decision. Notice, we're not talking about one week's delay, not even the cost of one day's delay, we're talking about one hour's delay. In an hour, while there was a Zelensky in this room, 30 Ukrainians died because of the world champion's inaction in the fight against Mr. Zelenski's coronavirus. The third secretary of defense is changing, and the money goes to big theft, so that the suitcases carry money and corrupt power, they buy rabbit machines to fight the opposition. You spend money on anything, but you don't have enough money to fight the coronavirus. I am firmly convinced that we, dear friends, have to continue this practice. Because when we get together, we get along. If we unite now, I think it will be very important to track down the prices of the stations. Because I remember very well that when my charity bought oxygen concentrators for 20 or 25 thousand dollars, the authorities bought them for 39, stealing taxpayers' money. And so taxpayers' costs are an extremely important subject. When do they appear? When taxes are paid and not hidden in offshore areas. So it will be very important for the people of Ukraine and the parliament to finally get the answers, and from where the money went to Zelenski in the offshore company. Why was he involved in money theft and money laundering? Why is the criminal case still open, and why is he not reporting here? He won't report. He'll report to Germany, he'll report to Mindich, he'll report to other people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Please, Motovlovec, out of procedure. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u104	In accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, a proposal is made to change today’s order of work of the Supreme Council, namely, after Law 3270, to impose Law 3205-2; to work until the conclusion of Law 3205-2. I ask you to put this question to the vote. Is there a need to discuss this proposal? Please, one minute at a time. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we believe that the order of the day should be formed, taking into account, as you promised, the proportional representation of the bill of all factions. And for us, it's a wonder why you still don't have the laws that people demand: 6606, which increases people's subsidies and increases the wages of our medics, other laws of opposition. Instead, today our agenda is such a game of Fridays, where you're dragging this log again with your very short staff and then you're setting absolutely lobbying laws. I remind you that you have made a decision and joined all the factions here to review the Rules that worked in Parliament for the first time when Parliament worked until 6 p.m. And now every day we see a violation of the Rules when you put the vote to work until the daytime order is exhausted. You know, the less this House votes, the better for people. Because you want to vote 5,600, which kills Ukrainian farming, we're definitely against 5,600.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u106	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u107	First of all, I want to thank Mr. Motovilovich for not beating the deputies with a whip, because I feel we're about to have this trend. About the order of the day. Look, I'm not sorry 3205-1, there are a lot of deputies from Voice who are co-authors. But the number of right-handers suggests that we're going to be looking at a few hours. And here's the problem with organizing our work. We lost an hour yesterday to discuss the decision, and we are now trying to change the order of the day. Dear colleagues, can we just plan better in advance? But everyone knew that there were laws that were necessary, that everyone could prepare, that the committee could have been warned, that the TSC could have been warned, that the MPs could have been warned, and we would have calmly gone through the same thing in a normal way. Now we're heroically trying to do what we heroically made mistakes. So in this case, I just have a big request: let's plan better, and we're going to have a normal job in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, who else wants to speak? Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, and I invite the people's deputies to the hall, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u109	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, the proposal for Bill 3205-2, is just the Law on the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Loans in Agriculture. I'm not saying that there are many, many amendments, 493 that were made to the second reading. In our view, this bill is not, to put it mildly, a priority that Ukraine and citizens of Ukraine need today in the framework of COVID-19. But here are the very important moments and norms, here are some, softly speaking, questionable schematics about the creation of the foundation itself: how it will be created by the Cabinet of Ministers, how compensation will go, to whom and so forth. So I think it is not a matter of priority to consider today in the order of the day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Who else? Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u111	Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that now in any way, in any way, there is a profoundly corrupt law that will serve the sale of agricultural land. You see, they're not interested in COVID right now, not the energy crisis, not the fact that now the National Health Service of Ukraine is blocking the 31st package, which predicts an increase in the wages of the medics. They're not interested, they're interested in taking the land to the peasants. And that's why this bill is now being extended. I mean, let the MPs know that if you vote now, the Fatherland will not give up any of its rights, and we have more than 200 rights. We'll vote on every paper. And for the country to know that now the prime law is the sale of agricultural land, including foreign international funds. Stop at last!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We move on to the vote for the proposal of the Motovilovec People's Deputy. You've heard all the arguments. I'm just going to make it clear that it's proposed to change the order of business and then after question 6270, look at question 3205-2 and work today until the conclusion of the bill (registration number 3205-2) on the partial loan guarantee fund in agriculture. Did I get it right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[11:31:28]] For 229 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Yes, thank you. Then let us go in this order of things, fellow believers. Let's move on to the appointment of ministers. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has the right to coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the appointment of Vreszczek Irina Andrijani Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine; the appointment of Rabbi Paul Borisovich as Minister of Strategic Industries of Ukraine; and the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine; and the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, this is the order for consideration: the presentation of candidates by the Prime Minister of Ukraine for up to 5 minutes; the presentation of candidates for government positions for up to 7 minutes each; questions for each of the candidates from the Ukrainian National Deputies, up to 9 minutes; a report from the Professional Committees to 2 minutes each; statements from the MPs and groups to 21 minutes, i.e. 3 minutes for the presentation; statements from the National Deputies, up to 6 minutes (3 minutes for the presentation) and the decision-making of each candidate separately. All of this will take about 1 hour 30 minutes. Is there a denial? There's a denial. Yes, please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but for the first time in the Supreme Council, ministers are talking about this kind of grumpyness. We suggest that the procedure that you have proposed be changed and that each minister be given a full discussion, each time the Prime Minister speaks, a presentation. We want to hear the criteria for a candidate, a candidate's speech, questions to him, and statements by factions. You want to connect the rope, the food, and the flimsy rope. Excuse me, there is an economic issue, there is a question of reintegration, there is a question of ecology today, there is a question today and there are problems in the industry sector. And our faction, and I'm sure all the factions support it, wants to say not a word about your pitch game, as you're changing it to each other's candidates, but a problem in the field and our position in every candidate. I'm sorry, or it'll be a gross violation of the Rules. We need to discuss each specific candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u114	Beautiful. Irina Volodymyrno, I quote you the Rules to which you call me. "Pursuant to article 28 of Part One, paragraph 2, the presiding officer shall have the right to join several related issues in conjunction with the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. If this is a matter of denial by the people's deputies, a procedural decision taken by 150 votes shall be taken by the Supreme Council without discussion." So if there is no objection, I will first make my proposal to discuss it in such a regulation. If she doesn't get 150 votes, I'll put in your offer, and we'll figure it out. No discussion. You heard the rules, didn't you? Dear colleagues, please prepare. And I'm proposing to consider this issue in the order that was suggested by me. I'll read it again. This is the order for consideration: submission of candidates by the Prime Minister-Minister of Ukraine for up to 5 minutes; statements by candidates for government positions for up to 7 minutes each; further questions for each of the candidates from the national deputies of Ukraine for up to 9 minutes; reports from the committees of profile to 2 minutes each; statements by members of the MPs and groups for up to 21 minutes; speeches by the national deputies for up to 6 minutes and decisions by each candidate separately. No one, as you said, will accept it. Every candidate will vote. Ready, colleagues? I ask you to vote on this proposal. [[11:36:04]] For 227 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Thank you, colleagues, for your carelessness, your desire, but this is the will of the hall. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, in accordance with articles 31 with the badge, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I give the floor to the candidate to be a member of the Government of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vereshuk Irina Andriyovni for public declaration of conflict of interest. First, public declaration of conflict of interest. Please, Irina Andriyevna. Irina Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 31, part six of article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that there is a conflict of interest when considering the question of my being elected Vice Prime Minister, the Minister for the Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u116	Thank you, Irina Andriyevna. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the point. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to present the candidates for office of Ministers of Ukraine. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainians! According to article 85, paragraph 12, and part of article 114, part four, of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Constitution has the right to a coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, to present the appointment of Vreschuk Irina Andriyovny, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Reintegration of the newly occupied territories of Ukraine, Rybekina Pavel Borisovich, Minister for Strategic Industries of Ukraine, and the appointment of Mr. Julija Anatoliyovna, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Please support the candidate data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u118	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the candidate for the post of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Irina Andriyevna Vereschuk, is invited to the floor. Please, Irina Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u119	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! First of all, thank you for your confidence. This is a great honor and a great responsibility, especially to the Ukrainian people and to you. The return of territories and the restoration of peace is of great importance to our nation. We promised peace. But true peace is possible only after the liberation of Crimea and Donbas from Russian occupation. Deoccupation and reintegration of Crimea and Donbas is a big challenge, it's a long and difficult road. And we'll get through it. You know that the Ministry of Reintegration plays an important role in the state-building of Ukraine and especially in the national security sector. I thank Mr. Resnickov for his productive work at the head of the Ministry. I would also like to thank the profile committee led by Mr. Dmitr Lubinz. Our volunteers, experts, and public institutions are worthy of special thanks. And, of course, a special thanks to Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. [[Crimean Tatar expression]] Thank you very much. At the head of the Ministry, I will continue the work that our political forces have begun. We're going to be doing the positions of profile normative acts and programs. For example, the recently approved plan for implementing the Crimea Depopulation and Reintegration Strategy, which contains 158 positions, 95 of which are under the Ministry of Reintegration. We're going to start by conducting an audit of the execution, which is how much the Ministry is doing with the profile laws, the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees, the President's decrees, and the decision of the MPO. As a result of the performance audit, we adjust priorities, work plans, and deadlines. Also among our first steps will be the creation of an expert and public council at the Ministry. We need to increase communication with public institutions and the community of experts. As far as my priorities are concerned. Short. First. Ensure proper funding for reintegration projects. Without adequate funding, many remain just fine ideas. I understand that the budget is not enough, so my priority will be to mobilize the financial efforts of our international partners to support the relevant Donbass and Crimea projects. Here we are talking about both the establishment of a Special International Fund for Financing and public private partnership, especially in infrastructure projects in areas that are adjacent to temporarily occupied areas. These are, for example, projects related to water infrastructure in Donetsk and Luhansk areas: Mariupol – 64 million euros, Dangerous – 70 million euros funded by the government of France or thanks to the government of Turkey, is the construction of housing for internally displaced persons. The second is the humanitarian component, the humane center. With President Zelenski, man-centredness itself becomes the foundation of state policy in terms of temporarily occupied territories. I am deeply convinced that the humanitarian component is the key to reintegration, which is our soft strength. The third is information policy. With people in temporarily occupied territories, the State must speak the language of return and reunification, the language of support and assistance. We need more quality content, more thoughtful and balanced boards and narratives, we need to learn to look at the eyes of our people who live there, because we are finally fighting for their hearts. Another priority is legal and diplomatic work. This is support for negotiations in the Tripartite Contact Group. And by the end of this year, we have to create a specialized national institution, the Ukrainian National Centre for Peacebuilding, to collect an evidence base for violations of the rights associated with temporary occupation and armed aggression of the Russian Federation. In my standard-setting work, I rely very much on your support, my distinguished colleagues, the support of the people's deputies, and on the members of the profiling committee in particular. I am an MP myself, and I know exactly what the relationship should be between the deputies and the minister. And finally, my top priority is our young people. It is for them and with them that we will return our Crimea and Donbas. I will pay special attention to the education and employment of young people in temporarily occupied territories. We want a new page of their lives to begin with moving to a controlled area where tolerant people, quality education, work, mortgages, good friends, and the opportunity to make a family. Reintegration work is a tiny and delicate work that requires wisdom, tolerance and patience. Of course, there are different people living in occupied areas that are temporarily occupied. I am sure that among them are those who love our native Ukraine. As I conclude my talk, I want to address them right now. Wherever you are in Crimea or Donbas, we love and wait for you. We love you and we wait for you no matter what your political views, your religious preferences, no matter which language you're more comfortable with right now. The time will come and we will be together. I know that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u120	A hero of fame, Irina Andriyevna! Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, please sign up for a question to a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'll remind you, it takes nine minutes. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u121	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to our nominee, Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u122	That's not fair. It's been on the nominee all day. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u123	Thank you. But it is a matter of honor to say that we also perform in other days. Look, Madam Secretary-General, there are serious moments here. Because when we talk about the reintegration of Donbas, you basically have a road map already defined. And these are not general things, and this is a concrete fact from the specific points of the Minsk Treaty implementation package. And when we fired Mr. Reznikov yesterday, I had very logical questions about why we failed to make specific points. In this regard, I have a question for you. As you will do, when specific points are made, see paragraph 4 of the local elections. The decree, the law when will it be in the Supreme Council? One. This is according to Ukrainian legislation and Ukrainian parties. The other one. Item 5. When will amnesty be held? This is also another important moment. Paragraph 6, release of detained persons. When are we going to do all these things? Eight. The modality of full recovery of socio-economic ties is the lifting of the economic blockade of Donbass, and the special status. When we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u124	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. Unfortunately, the Minsk Accords are not a road map of depopulation and reintegration. We have a strategy. And, yes, the Minsk agreements are signed and by the Ukrainian side, we're not giving up on their implementation. But security issues should be the primary issue. Before we go to the political issues of conflict resolution in Donbassa, an international armed conflict, we have to do security issues, and when Ukraine does, the Russian Federation refuses to do so, either way, security issues. She even refuses to acknowledge herself as a party. So if that is the answer to your question, I am grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Skorko Mikola Leonidovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u126	Dear Irina Andriyevna! I'm sorry, I just heard your answer. I had a similar question. I'm very sorry that we can't normally look at all the candidates, because there is much to say to future candidates for all positions, including you. I'm so sorry that you're leaving the Supreme Council, I thought you were one of the adequate people in this faction. But your answer about the Minsk Accords, it's unacceptable, the only way to reintegrate is through the Minsk Accords, it's accepted by the whole world. And here's the question. How do you plan to help those displaced from the territory of Donbas and Crimea? Because I can see that the state is helping the Afghans, who are already thousands of people, and paying them huge sums. How will we support our people now living in an area controlled by the State of Ukraine, Crimea, and Donbas? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. There's a strategy, it was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers in October of this year. The Ministry of Reintegration has developed a step-by-step plan, there is a road map (or a map) that allows implementation, and this strategy applies to internally displaced persons. It's not big, you can get to know it. It contains clear goals, as well as steps that will help with the provision of housing, such as internally displaced persons, social benefits, and assistance. These questions, once again, are set out in a strategy, and you can get to know it. As for my position, I will carry out this strategy because I consider it to be an objective and appropriate situation for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u128	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Irina, I am so sorry for you. Please pass the word to Tuckenko Maxim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u130	Maxim Tkachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u131	Thank you, colleagues. Irina, we will definitely support you today. And two questions. Do you have any idea of the time frame for us to return to Crimea and Donbas? And another question. What are your plans for humanitarian exchange?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u132	Thank you. I'm going to start right off the second question, because I was a reporter, actually, for a bill that we voted with you, including humanitarian demining. I sincerely hope that, in cooperation with Mr. Reznik's newly elected minister of defense, we will actually work out a concept of what it will look like in practice. Because there is a law, but unfortunately it has not yet been fully operational. We talked to the Secretary of Defense about this, agreed on how we would act. And hopefully soon we'll be presenting a joint programme on humanitarian exchange. Now, here's a question about the time frame. You've asked a very difficult question because we understand that not everything depends on the Ukrainian side. But we do everything we can to make this time and day come. So I'm not going to call it date and time, but I know exactly, and I said that in my speech, this time and day is going to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u133	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u134	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Irina Andriyovno, first of all, I hope that you won't interrupt contact with your family's National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, I think you can count on our support and assistance. I have two questions. First. Your predecessor's team has drafted a bill on transitional justice that has recently received comments and recommendations from the Venice Commission. Will you speed up the work on this bill, and when will it theoretically appear in the session room? And the second question. The aggressor state representatives, the official representatives, have repeatedly raised questions about the requirements for Ukraine to implement the so-called Steinmayer formula, which is to establish by law that it violates mine agreements. How do you feel about this offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u135	Thank you for asking. And I'm not leaving my own committee, which I'm very grateful to and members of the committee for, we've always had a good cooperation. Once again, thank you very much, and I look forward to further cooperation from our committee. Thank you. Now about 5844. Indeed, the Venice Commission gave a list of quite detailed comments and recommendations to be taken into account. I will not say that this will happen by the end of this year, but in 2022 we plan that this bill will already be considered in the House of Parliament. And about Steinmeier formula, you asked, yes, about implementation. Once again, we must first meet the security conditions and then move on to political issues. The Steinmeyer formula refers specifically to political issues. Therefore, when the Red Cross cannot reach a temporarily uncontrollable Ukrainian government territory, when we cannot exchange our captives, we cannot talk about political issues. So once again, I'm going to say and insist that first, security, then political settlement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u136	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Stépi Sergija Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Ruslan Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u138	Ruslan Gorbenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u139	Thank you, colleagues. Hello, Mrs. Irina. Our colleagues raised questions about the Minsk Accords. As we know, the captains of our Minsk-based TCG have left for a reason. Mr. Reznikov, his seat is because he changed his position, and Mr. Leonid Makarovich, we want health in the hospital. Will you take the lead, or will you take the place in this format? But to say it's not an axiom, unfortunately, we don't have a second course of negotiations. So what do you see about the Minsk negotiations? And the second question. With regard to the reintegration of the controlled part of the Lugansk and Donetsk region. We know it's impossible to reintegrate without an economy, and Donbas is a coal country, and unfortunately, in two years, we haven't done anything for coal miners, for coal mines, because now they're getting this coal hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan, for asking. I'm going to start with economic reintegration right now, because it's really a very, very topical issue. We've talked to you about getting ready to actually discuss this in the Parliament Hall, about how we're going to get appropriate advice as soon as possible, about getting to those people on whom it depends, what fate is going to be when we talk about Donbas's economy. I know from you and from a colleague sitting next to us, from our Mr. Tuckenk, that, for example, in the Luhansk region, the highest price per kilowatt of electricity. I know there are a lot of problems with mines, and really people are out of a job, instead there are so-called diggers -- illegal coal mining, government budgeting, people don't pay taxes, they don't have any social protection, and then they suffer. We're going to look at this conceptually, and I promise you, as soon as possible. Now, about my being in the Tripartite Contact Group. Yes, I plan to participate. But as for my headship, this is a matter for the higher political leadership of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u141	Thank you, Irina Andriyevna. Please take your place. Honourable National MPs are invited to the floor for the report by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Luhansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the City of Sevastopol, the National Minorities and the International Relations of Dmitro Valeriovich Lubinetz. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich. In 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u142	Honorable Predestination! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! On behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our committee discussed the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Vreestuk Irina Andrivni as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories. As a result of our consideration, yesterday our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, that Vrejszuk Irina Andriyevna be appointed Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. I'd also like to add that we had a good deal of discussion at the meeting yesterday, and we asked questions, and first of all, we stressed that the previous minister had shown us how to really work with the department of profile. This is a constant meeting, this and together we visited the territory of Donetsk, Lugansk district, the territory of the Hersonian region on the issues of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We also worked together on legislative initiatives, changing them, and holding working meetings. Given that our committee has shown such cooperation, we hope that the same cooperation will be with Mrs. Irina’s new minister in the event of today’s positive vote. But, sure, it won't be easy, it'll be hard. But our committee is always ready to cooperate with the entire Cabinet of Ministers. So thank you, our committee is asking to support Irina Andriyov's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've got a minute, we're just not going to be able to hear the next reporter. So I'm calling a 30-minute recess, and we're going to continue our plenary session at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. The break is over, we continue to consider the issues of the agenda. Let's move on to the second candidature. Ladies and gentlemen, a candidate for the post of Minister for Strategic Industry of Ukraine, Paul Borisovich Ryabikin, is invited to the floor. The performance is up to 7 minutes. Paul Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u145	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, the main task for all State authorities, the Armed Forces and military forces, for the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex, is to ensure national security, to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity. To carry out this task, a new approach to the development of strategic industries, a more effective state policy in the area of state defence procurement of the aviation industry and space activities was created more than a year ago by the Ministry of Strategic Industries of Ukraine. It's not my job to evaluate the Ministry's activities. At the same time, I would like to focus on key achievements in the activities of Minstrategprom. The Ministry has been developed and approved. President of Ukraine Strategy for the Development of the Ukrainian Defence and Industrial Complex. The Supreme Council has adopted the Law on the Defence of Procurement, which has radically changed legislation in this country, bringing the acquisition of arms and military equipment by the contracting authorities as close as possible in the interests of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other force structures to better world standards, including NATO. In order to implement this law, the Ministry has developed and adopted by the government the necessary regulations that remain to be finalized and implemented. The e-registration of candidates and contractors of government contracts has been launched. This register should be legalized by appropriate legal acts. The concept of Ukraine's 2021-2025 National Space Science and Technology Programme has been approved, and this program, I hope, will be broadcast in the Supreme Council Hall this year. For the first time in 12 years, the state-owned science and technology development programme for the aviation industry has been approved for 2021-2030, developed by the Minstrategprom. Work is under way on the establishment of the Center for Certification of Products of Special Steel, alloys, and metallurgical material science, as well as the Defence Technology Agency and the Defense Industry Support Fund. A national policy project has been developed in import and diversification of import supplies and services for strategic industries. I mean, big steps have been taken to shape politics in this area, but not enough is what is called a regulatory framework, the legal acts that you and I are working on, if your will is to be done. In this sense, I look forward to a fruitful interaction with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Economic Policy. The creation of the Ministry gave impetus to the process of settling an active dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, as customers of defence supplies, and with manufacturers of such products, public and private enterprises. To my deep conviction, all participants in this process must work as the only clear and coherent mechanism, without any faults or delays. We need to enhance effective interaction, coordination and control of the activities of government customers and manufacturers with the aim of fully and unconditionally executing state defence orders to ensure the security of the state. The top priority for me is to ensure that government orders are granted to state-owned, domestic-owned producers, regardless of the form of ownership. The main thing is high-tech high-tech high-tech technology and military technology for our army. The fact is that in Ukraine, which occupied less than 3 percent of the territory of the former Soviet Union, more than 30 percent of all companies in the Soviet Union's military and industrial complex were concentrated. On the one hand, this is a positive moment, on the other hand, most of these enterprises have proved superfluous and unnecessary for our nation. They complicated the economic situation of the industry and accumulated debt. In the context of ensuring the further development of the OPC state, I think it is extremely relevant and timely for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Law on the Specificities of the Reform of the Defence and Industrial Complex. The Ukrainian defence has competence in space-based missile, aviation, and armoured technology, engine building, high - precision weapons, and radio electronic technology. I am convinced that, in order to preserve and develop the potential of our industry, we have to act quickly and at the same time very carefully and cautiously to take steps to restructure and corporateize Ukrainian OPC and Minstrategprom enterprises to be the focal point of this process. At the same time, we realize that these investments that our industry needs must work primarily for the defence, for the defence and for the security of our nation. One priority will be the development and support of an internal manufacturer of modern and competitive defence products, the emphasis on the creation of closed development cycles and the production of ready weapons and military technology. In parallel with the development of a domestic producer, we have to actively engage in the cooperation of leading world producers, especially those companies with which OTT contracts have already been made or are being implemented. In the interests of Ukraine, these are British, Turkish and French shipbuilding companies, European helicopter manufacturers and special equipment, American arms manufacturers, communications equipment, etc. In close cooperation with foreign partners, we can launch an ambitious joint production programme in Ukraine. Such programs are already being implemented actively in India (this is the Make in India) and in Saudi Arabia Vision 2030 and elsewhere. Increasing the export potential of the defence and industrial complex is the prime priority of the ministry. In summary, I want to quote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party Voice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u147	Thank you. Paul Borisovich, I have two questions for you. First. As we know, the two minimum tasks that were assigned to the Minstrategprom are to create a sub-legislative regulatory framework that would allow the Defense of Procurement Act to work, and to create, to fill the original register. Sadly, Minstrategprom failed to handle these tasks in a year. It was written a year ago and it was never written. The register only started working recently in test mode, so it doesn't work. So I have a question: how quickly can you make up for and run these processes, without which a defense order will never be executed? And the second question. Two years ago, the National Security Council decided to adopt positions on the establishment of the Agency for Defense Technology Development. Mr. Urussky promised that it would be launched this year. It hasn't worked yet. I have a question: how fast is the Defense Technology Agency?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. First of all, I think it's pretty realistic to start a register and legalize it by the end of this year. As for the regulatory framework, unfortunately I can't tell you the depth of this documentation. I know that there are many works that already exist in one way or another. But their acceptance. I'll do some analysis and try to do it as soon as possible. And here we need to work with the Committees of the Supreme Council, first of all. As for the Defense Procurement Agency, I believe that this body should be operational from the beginning of the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u151	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have the next question, two to you. First. We know there have been huge problems in the state for two years now with state defense orders. How do you plan to remedy this situation, because the situation is actually critical, including the purchase of essential weapons, such as Neptune missiles, which are meant to protect our coastline, and other weapons samples? That's the first question. The second question. We see that in September, for the first time since March, the industrial output dropped again by 0.9 percent. What are you planning to do to change this trend, especially in terms of increasing the price of gas in the world that directly affects industry? The industry also accumulated record debt — 3 billion dollars on wages. The situation is really critical. What is in your plans to change it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. First of all, a state defense order is an absolute priority of my activity, if it is your will, and you will support me. I believe that the Public Procurement Act is just the first step to stimulate a national producer in the defence industry and industry at large. I see the Ministry of Strategic Industry's place, first of all, as a place of authority that will protect industry's interests not only in the military sphere, but in general the entire industrial complex. As far as overcoming the debt of wages is concerned, I think it would take some time to figure out where they came from and why they might be closed. And I know that the Ukroborprom Reform Act offers the possibility of simplifying the implementation of overcapacity and the use of these funds also on business issues, perhaps one of the sources of financing for this debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Roman Kostenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u156	Roman Costenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u157	Roman Costenko, the Voice faction. Paul Borisovich, next question. During the previous cadence, not the cadence, well, your predecessor's ministry was trying to subordinate itself to the National Space Agency. Tell me, please, your vision, especially the National Space Agency, is it going to be a separate body or are you going to try to bring it into line with the Ministry? And in general, your vision of the development of space in our country, and will that be your priority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u158	You know, the question of space is one of the key positions that can become a further subject of our national pride. We have very good traditions among Ukrainian manufacturers, which have a very large volume of orders abroad, and Yuzhmasha's products, and other manufacturers, it's very famous in the world. I think this should be the first political priority in this area in the future. As far as the status of the space agency is concerned, I think that the current situation with the space agency is actually a normal and well-established idea. The question is more in the implementation of this idea and the question of how the enterprises in this area will be guided in the future. It's a question of whether they're going to be corporateized and they're going to go into an aviation-space holding company that's already going to have some corporate governance policy, or whether it's going to be an enterprise that's being run by a government agency, I think the way of corporateization is complicated, but it's more promising in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u159	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u160	Please give it to Juliana Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u161	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u162	Mr. Ryabikin, you were the fourth in two years head of the State Service. Not only does it seem to me, but all the expertise that we haven't seen or received during your work in the State Service, there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I just want to ask you and all the national MPs, can a person who has failed in the previous city of employment be appointed to a higher office? And I treat you with great respect, but. ( Sit down, Alexi.) Are you prevented from doing things that you have both professional knowledge and experience, just depending on certain people, or are you just not able to predict and build your own work? Please tell me how you feel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u163	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u164	Thank you for asking, Nina Petrovna. I don't think I can appreciate my work in office. I have to say that my previous job is two main directions. The first direction is the financial result, which was pretty good. And we have, compared to not the 20th, but in the 19th year, we have almost the same circulation in physical volume and an increase in customs payments by 23 percent. And that's a fact that you can see in all the budget coming up. As for personnel issues and what's on customs, that's a pretty big problem. And when we did the contests, we tried to keep these competitions as open as possible. All the national deputies were invited, and many of you in the hall were watching these contests. But I didn't see an active position, because we had an agreement with both the profile committee and the MP community, which would be observations or some kind of restrictive in terms of individuals or others. Unfortunately, we did not get them, so the contests were held without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Dmitry Andryovich Nataluha, is invited to the floor for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u166	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished Mr. Head, distinguished presidency, distinguished candidates and the distinguished Prime Minister of Ukraine! We really listened to the meeting of the candidate committee of the Minister for Strategic Industry of Rybikin, and the committee decided during the discussion to support the nomination and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Mr. Rybikin be appointed to the post. But in addition to that, I would like to say the following. You see, Paul Borisovich, you have a very big challenge. First of all, you need to change the situation where because of the failure of the previous leadership, the very idea of this ministry is discredited. It's wrong, and it has to be preserved by the Ministry, but it has to be effective. What Is Effective? You're facing another very difficult task, this is a defense order. But the defense order isn't just in terms of being torn down and not provided in time, it's in terms of 70 percent of the defence order being imported, and it's a disaster. This is a disaster primarily for the Ukrainian industry, the Ukrainian economy, and we need to fix it immediately. A country that depends 70 percent on imports in its defense is a country that is very vulnerable. So the location, the location, and the location again. Space at last. I had just returned from Dubai, where I was speaking at the International Aerospace Congress. Ukraine has every possibility of becoming a European space cluster. Ukraine was the brain and hands of the Soviet Union in space. Today we can become the heart of space in Europe. And we have to provide this place. And to do that, we have to create an aerospace agency, attach aviation technology to space technology. And I also urge you to support our committee in this direction. So, colleagues, the committee has decided to support, please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u167	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. We have also completed our previous nominations. And the third candidate we're talking about, the distinguished national MPs, is invited to the floor by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine Julia Anatolyevna Svridenko. Please. You're up to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u168	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Prime Minister! Let me start by saying that the most important thing about successful economic policy is what we're all here for is the well-being of our citizens, the well-being of the Ukrainians. What do we have now? At present, we have almost no incentive to produce high-value products. If we look at the ratio of capital investment to GDP, let's look at the numbers in Ukraine, that's about 14 percent. If we look at Turkey, that's 29.9 percent, Poland is 19.2. For years the procurement was used to patch holes, not to channel government funds to areas that have the greatest multiplier effect. Sadly, though, the business works in a shadow where it is comfortable and secure. And 25-35 percent of GDP is said to be our shadow costs. What decisions can affect this situation that can change this situation? First, this is the launch of institutions that will strengthen the economic policy of the state. The second is actually a view of the very approach to making state investments. It's about starting institutions. This is primarily about the launch and operation of an effective Export Credit Agency, the Foreign Direct Investment Fund, this is a housing improvement fund, the State Lease Agency, the Microinvestment Fund for Citizens. All these institutions work successfully in the United States, they work successfully in Europe. I'll say more, most of them are created in us, but they don't show any significant results. 15 years ago, the world learned to balance between liberal and conservative economic instruments that are more secure than political decisions that have their own financial mechanisms. So we need to become more flexible, move away from Soviet standards and bureaucracy, and form steel institutions that can support the business during the pandemic and create favourable conditions, and stimulate job creation in the areas that have the greatest multiplier effect. The second very important approach is what I said at the beginning, to look at the approach to government funding. We have to stop just eating through government funds, instead of focusing them and making so-called well-designed investments, taking into account the economic impact. In a period of crisis, when business is held back from large-scale risk projects, the functions of generating and stimulating investment projects are to be undertaken by the State. So we chose five key economic clusters, where investment in the short and long term will have the greatest effect on the state. The first cluster is important, we discussed on the committee today, it's machine-building. For the next three years, shipbuilding can be restored in Ukraine, with 20 new vessels each year. By 2025, we can increase trade to 22 billion dollars and create almost 50,000 jobs. Starting next year, in our plans to fully recharge the truck park of Ukrzalznice. It's 46,000 cars, it's going to create a market of over 100 billion dollars in the next seven years. The second important element and cluster is energy. This is the most vulnerable sector of Ukraine's economy today. We can't radically change the geopolitical conditions in which we live, but we can influence it to become more independent. Since next year, we're going to introduce a huge program of thermomodernization, you're going to see numbers and budget reflections for second reading. For the next heating season, Ukrainians will pay less. It is the thermomodernization of at least 5,000 apartment buildings each year. The third cluster is definitely very important: IT. And our role here is simply to increase orders for defence and medical IT projects, export promotion of Ukrainian companies and products, and to minimize bureaucratic pressure on the industry. The fourth is agriculture. And it's very important to support our agriculture because it's a matter of national security and national prosperity. It's important for us to lower tax rates for animal companies, optimize and modernize the country's logistics processes. Next year we're going to start a growth program, it's going to be a big program all over Ukraine. We're going to start in the southern regions, and our goal is to increase the yield by two times in these areas and increase the export yield by five billion dollars. The fifth and most important finishing cluster is construction. Our goal is to get to the level of construction that we had before 1990, that's up to 20 million square meters of housing, that's to 300,000 families that can improve housing conditions at the expense of construction and at the expense of scaling up the mortgage lending program. Because if the amount of mortgages relative to GDP in countries like Latvia, 36 percent in Lithuania, 21 percent in Ukraine, is 0.6 percent, we're not the ones that have not developed in this direction, we're just starting off with you from a zero base. In conclusion, I want to say that the President's team has proved that rapid and systemic changes are possible. We have significant progress in digitization, we have significant progress in infrastructure. With your support, we'll be able to show the result and here, above all, at the rate of growth in gross domestic product. With many of you, we have worked both in my current position and in previous positions, and I hope for constructive cooperation and further. Our task is to make sure that all of the projects listed in my statement are not for reporting, but for visible, tangible changes. I'm willing to take responsibility for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u169	Thank you for the reports. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question for a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. Please, Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u170	Please pass the word to Alexia Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u171	Alexy Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u172	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear Mrs. Julia, you are now in office as First Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Economics of the Vice-President's Office. Since May you have been a member of the NAC Naftogaz Ukrainian Supervisory Board. I still don't understand why the President's Office would be there to be a member of the Supervisory Board, more logically, to have a government there. But I have a question for you. You've been on this Oversight Board for four months. Have you initiated an audit of the Naftogaz Financial NAC? Have you initiated the search for the answer to the question, where did the money of the Ukrainians on the 20/20 program go down? Did you even initiate the transparency of NAC Naftogaz, and why didn't you initiate it? And the last. Do you realize that in Ukraine there is a complete failure of market reforms in energy, utilities, the gas market?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u173	Thank you for asking. As for NAC Naftogaz and the NAC Naftogaz Supervisory Board. We've always stood in positions, representatives of the state, at the NAC Naftogaz Supervisory Board on what we have to do to become energy independent and, above all, focus on gas production, on increasing the gas production program. This is exactly what the new head of government is up to today, and that is why we, as representatives of the Office of Presidents, as parliamentarians, need to keep a close eye on this, because this is our energy independence. As for NAC Naftogaz. The second question is about market reforms in energy, gas supply. The big problem with the gas market, and you know it's no worse than I do -- it's monopolizing this market. Actually, this is the structure that works in these markets, when we have a monopoly more, if we take regional markets, it's 80 percent of some gas suppliers, it doesn't allow us to properly implement all the market mechanisms. And right now, the answer to the question has to be a very complex one, the strengthening of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and in general, to look very clearly at the structure of the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u175	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u176	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich. You have a real birthday today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'd like to ask a few specific questions about macroeconomic prognosis, because any priorities that you define, they should eventually pour into specific macroeconomic indicators. If we're planning at least two years, please tell me, first, what is the amount of gross domestic product you're planning to achieve? Last year it was 155 billion dollars. When you get to the 13th year, what's that going to be? And so per capita GDP, you know, 137th place, per capita GDP is the last place in Europe. How is this going to be a number? That's two. We don't accept the macroeconomic forecast that's in the budget, where the parameters that are in terms of GDP growth rates are in terms of the inflation index and the inadequacy of population income growth. What parameters are you also going to look at for macro-pregation for accelerated growth in gross domestic product? And external trade, export volumes. We also want to hear specific numbers because it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u178	Thank you for asking. If we look at the macro-predictions that are in the medium term for the 22nd to 24th years, you and I know that we're planning to increase GDP by 3.8 percent -- that's the 22nd year, if we say 23rd year -- that's 4.7 percent and 24th percent. If we want accelerated growth, we have to make structural changes and implement what I started out with, the possibility of directing state funds to those areas that have the greatest multiplier effect that just have to match three parameters: localization -- once, employment gives jobs -- two, and added value is three. In fact, if you and I are introducing all these clusters or projects that I've talked about with you today, it's construction, mortgage, engineering, thermo-modernization, you and I are going to have an additional accelerated GDP growth. Inflation we have the opportunity and the hope that we will still keep in the range of 5 plus minus 1 in the following year is, of course, a more pessimistic scenario that says that inflation is going to be at 6.2 percent -- 6.3 percent. But this has to be the monetary policy of the National Bank, which, I think, will give us the ability to keep the target inflation going. The amount of GDP next year is going to be 5 trillion 900 billion dollars. That's the one. What's important to me is that the indicator that you didn't ask me about, but that we all have to think about and look at as an indicator on all programs, it's still an unemployment rate. We have to look at this because it's jobs and the well-being of the population. And here it's important that we don't go beyond this 7.5. Seven percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u179	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Kishilev Dmitr Davidovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u180	Dear Julia Anatolyevna, there are considerable economic challenges facing our country, some of which you have already mentioned. We have a chronic trade deficit, so we import more than we export. We have an entry into public procurement of almost 40 percent, so we're giving more than 200 billion to other countries and creating jobs there, not here in Ukraine. We have a share of raw GDP, and the share of technology is declining. Throughout the world, governments are using absolutely specific remedies for these diseases. These are institutions for economic development, tools for stimulating domestic production, such as localization or industrial parks, stimulating the export of processed products and protecting the internal market. So the question is, what key economic development institutions should work, and you see them? And what are the priority economic development tools you plan to implement to meet these challenges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u181	Dmitri Davidovich, you already have the answer. If we're talking about institutions, you've listed them. I am grateful to the MPs that we have all passed the basic law together, and we are now waiting for changes to the Tax and Budget Codes concerning industrial parks. This time. What I said at the beginning, the Export Credit Agency, it was created, but unfortunately we see that the indicators, the parameters of work, they want better. And we're going to work to make sure that the Export Credit Agency is fully operational. Micro-enterprise support funds are very important. So I think all of these listed institutions that I started with, and the state lysing agency, it's very important. Because it's clear that budget opportunities are always limited, and we have social spending, which is protected, which we as a state have made a commitment to budget. Obviously, we can use quasi-instruments such as lysing interest rate compensation, loan interest compensation, such things we can support our domestic producers and thus stimulate exports by increasing their competitiveness.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u182	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u183	Please pass the word to Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u184	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u185	Julia Anatolyevna, pleased to see your career growth. We wish you success in your position if there is support. We met when we were preparing our first quarantine support package. This was quite constructive cooperation with the entire Parliament. Regrettably, Ukraine is in the turn of the coronavirus and of the Lokdown, respectively. Unfortunately, unlike other waves, we have no answer as to how we will support business during the lockdown. The head of our Voice Party, Kira Rudik, along with colleagues from our faction, has introduced appropriate laws on and incentives for the exemption from certain taxes during the coronavirus, on budget support, as we have done in the last few moments of the lockdown. I have a request for you. I've seen statements that you're going to do the same. Let's do it next week so business doesn't die in the next wave, waiting for the bowdown and the restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u186	Thank you. We are ready to join together and develop such a stimulus project, because I think we have managed to organize and quickly adopt a bill that is appropriate in the Supreme Council and help thousands, individuals entrepreneurs and hired workers whose activities have been restricted in those red zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u187	Thank you, Julia Anatolyevna. The questions from the hall are complete. Julia Anatolyevna, thank you. Let me ask you another question, because this is. I'd like to ask you a question. Look, unfortunately, none of the previous ministers of the economy have been able to launch that intellectual property reform that was voted in the walls of this Parliament. And so far we don't have an up-to-date national intellectual property body. And I think it's a huge underestimation of the potential that exists in Ukraine today. I'd like to ask you that one of the priorities would be to support Ukrainian intelligence, to capitalize Ukrainian intelligence on the Ukrainian economy. And I very much ask you to do everything you can to ensure that the reform that is being voted upon, any economic one within the walls of the Supreme Council, is further given clear and clear implementation in the government. We thank you for that. You may not answer, but that is just the kind of instruction you need. Thank you very much, Mrs. Julia Anatolyevna. The word is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Dmitri Andrievich Natalusi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u188	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the committee discussed the appointment of Sviridenko Julia Anatoliyvna as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economy of Ukraine, and decided to support the nomination, and to recommend her to the Supreme Council to appoint Julia Anatolyivna for this position not least because we have just heard in this room, because we speak in principle in one language. Julia Anatolyevna, I would very much like you to become the minister of the economy in which the Ministry of Economics becomes the main and central client not only of economic policy, but of tax policy, customs policy, fiscal policy and more probably monetary policy. Here, in the context of cooperation with the National Bank, which, unfortunately, does not exactly contribute to the development and lending of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian industry. We wanted you to take the same lead, and we're ready to support you. Another story. Of course, you're absolutely right about the tools that you're going to support. The leasing company and the Export Credit Agency, which must be relaunched and not allowed to put and discredit the whole institution as an example of Minstrategprom. But finally, I'd like to pay attention to the same thing about localization. You've talked a lot about it, and this is what my colleague Kisilevski was talking about, and this is also one of the problems that we've been struggling with for the second year, you're going to be the fourth minister of the economy, and hopefully the localization will finally become part of the Ukrainian economy. And last but not last. Please note the climate change on the Green Deal as well. As a result of the introduction of CBAM, Ukrainian exports can increase by 40 percent by the year 30. We're also ready to talk to you and start a discussion about how to win Ukraine, not lose it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the presentation of the candidates to the ministers. Now let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Three minutes for the show. Please, colleagues. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kovalov Aleksandro Ivanovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u190	I give the word to Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u191	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u192	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the new blood, the new recharge that people were waiting for is good. And the "Trust" MP will support today's decision that will take place in Kabmin. I'd like to go from Donbas to Irina Vreschuk. You're a specialist. Not once have you helped us and Lukashev, and the High Priest, Sukhova, Shahov to resolve the issue of Donbas. Reintegration is peace and unity. This is not just a battle for the earth. It is a struggle for the souls of men, for the hearts of men. It's an economic development. And I believe that you and I will still be able to sell the 2070 law on the economic free zone of Donbas to send money to Donbas on behalf of those investors who want to build up Ukraine. What I'm sure about Paul Borisovich Ryabikin is that when he was in office, he said, 23 percent more would go up in Ukraine's budget, he would also do with strategic enterprises. We see what is happening in the coal sector, and this has become a strategic direction in Ukraine today. Coal deposits don't pay miners money. I believe that the Minister of Strategic Enterprises will still unite with the Minister of Energy and bring the coal sector into normal development. Lugansk, the Donetsk region, is at least 200 million tons of coal under the land to be mined, and jobs to be given, miners to return from Poland and coal to the mountains and energy and warmth to the people in the apartments. Something about economics and finance. We also need to pay immediate attention to those who are suffering today This is Bill 6064, which our group has proposed that officials not be mad and shut off from the heat, from the light, from the water of the people in distress when people can't pay for the HKG today. The future minister said that we're going to be working today, and next year we're going to be paying cheaper tariffs for the HKG. And we need to do it today, now, so that people don't suffer or get into bed in times of distress and hunger, so that three apocalypse breeders can disappear from our country -- hunger, cold, misery, and death. I'm sure you can still work together and get our country out of trouble. Thank you. Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u193	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u195	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u196	Dear Ukrainians, 100 years ago in our neighboring Poland, General Pilsudsky in the ruins of two empires created a Polish state that fell two weeks ago in 39th year as a card house. Because it was not possible to fight horseshoes and swords with German armoured equipment that entered Poland. And by the 45th year, Poland had no such understanding as the Polish economy, the depopulation of Polish territories, the Polish state-building and the Polish budget. Today in our country, a tank of weapons lives on the battlefield for 3-4 minutes. Not anymore. Because the efficiency of anti-tank high-frequency missiles is 93-94 percent. Why am I telling you this right now? And what I'm trying to explain is that from the chosen priorities in the defence sector, which is not only responsible for the Minister of Defense, but also for the minister who will now be assigned to this post, it depends on whether there will be an economy in Ukraine, his own budget, his own national security, and a lot of other things. There are still 90,000 armed Russian Federation troops on the border with our country, and we can never forget that. So, society, we hope that the state's position on the defence complex will change, we've already lost the ability to symmetrically respond to the enemy. At the beginning of Ukrainian independence, we had 1,000 240 nuclear warheads, none of which are today. And we can't symmetrically respond to the aggressor in the event of his new armed intervention in the territory of our state. But we still have the potential for an asymmetric answer. To do that, we need to build rockets that have to hold back the aggressor Russia for a new invasion into our nation's territory. We have everything for that. We have a South Side, we have a Yuzhmash, we have a Pavlovrad chemical plant, and we still have an Arsenal. Yes, there is. Seven hundred people are still expected to be kept within 9 hectares of the city center. That's why I'm addressing the people we're about to assign to the prime minister of strategic industry. Hold on to our defenses, and for us then the issues of economics, politics and reintegration will not only be relevant, but also relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u197	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u198	Please give the floor to my colleague Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u199	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, in ancient Greece, sometimes used the principle of demarche to identify a political leader. If anyone doesn't know what it is, I'll remind them. In fact, political leaders were identified by drawing lots. So I feel that this is the kind of principle that the authorities are doing today when they're offering to replace some ministers with others. You know, a candidate who fought actively for the post of Minister of War becomes a candidate for the post of Minister of Peace, and she doesn't understand why the lot has fallen. Yesterday you gave us the best in this room, quote, "the minister of the economy of virtually all times and peoples", today takes the place of an alternate deputy from the office of the President of Ukraine. What difference does it make? You know, well-known analysts, journalists, political scientists are trying to understand, and what principles do you follow when you switch representatives to each other. What is the logic of these assignments? There are different theories about the level of chatter, the level of flexibility, the level of these people, how they can fit into puzzles, and in fact they just dropped the list of rotations from the mountain. If there's still no understanding of the principles, I'll tell you the curtain of this reality. And the principles are simple. The principle of loyalty to the greatest leader, as you like to say here, all times and nations, or to his self-proclaimed governor, is probably the most important principle of appointment. And how the lot fell out is, in fact, the only logic behind these assignments. And the qualifications really don't matter, and the names don't matter. And that's why I don't have any questions about these candidates as ministers at all. But I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister, if he would have heard. Mr. Prime Minister, it's your choice if you've learned the same thing. Mr. Prime Minister! You don't hear, of course, what you do here in Parliament, decide what you do, not listen to MPs. Did you, like all the other members of the monogamy, learn about those names just when they did, or an hour earlier? I actually have a question for the President. When will you, Mr. President, finally take full responsibility for the situation in the country? Because with these rotations, these Fridays, you are again trying to cover up the improvements you have made in your day or the glorious or sad end of the poverty era you promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u201	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u202	Please pass the word to Paul Suško.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u203	Paul Susko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the state of crisis in which the country is now in the field of child protection. Dear Irina Andriyovna, as future Vice Prime Minister, you will be responsible not only for the ministry, but also for the entire sphere. The reform of deinstitutionalization that has been going on in Ukraine since 2017, which has been aimed at making positive changes since the creation of conditions for children, has turned into a penal vehicle from the destruction of children’s institutions. As a result of the thoughtless elimination of special schools, children were deprived of education. As a result of the thoughtless liquidation of children’s homes, children found themselves in hospitals, in other homes, anywhere but in the family. The country has failed to adopt. Hidden orphans flourish in the land. As a result, Ukrainians who want to adopt children cannot do so and children cannot receive family and services. Irina Andriyevna, you and I could not stand apart from this problem. You and I have formed a temporary commission of inquiry that has established these facts. We stopped the thoughtless liquidation of special schools and institutions. We've changed our strategy. We've overturned the government's inadequacy and done the report that we've sent to the government with you. This report is now in the ministries, but they alone cannot do anything without government coordination. Irina Andriyevna, I believe that with your arrival, you will take this report under your personal control. You will take personal control of this sphere and the coordination of the government. And I believe that you will join the creation of the Ukrainian State Service for Children. And I believe, Mr. President, that as you and I come along with you, with Parliament, with the government and with the Office of the President of Ukraine, we will finally set an order in this area so that the children in our country feel protected. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u205	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u206	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague after the faction of Mr. Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u207	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The "Fatherland" faction is generally surprised by this principle of discussing persons for key positions in the government. There is now an update of one third of the government, and we should actually discuss four key positions in one statement. Because it is impossible to do so in three minutes, I will concentrate exclusively on the key post that concerns the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Economy. My colleague, Kucherenko, asked me how you could be on the NAC Naftogaz Supervisory Board and not notice the report of the Chamber of Auditors for 225 billion dollars used by NAC Naftogaz for a non-target purpose. The Court of Auditors established this. And what was the NAC Naftogaz Supervisory Board doing? How was it possible to be a member of the Naftogaz Supervisory Board, and not the Supervisory Board made a statement that the cost of the exhaust gas was one bracelet per cube, and that was claimed by the person who was put there by the executive director, not by Ukrainian citizens. Was he not bound by his obligations so that he could openly call it that? How was it possible to be a member of the Supervisory Board and not respond at all to those $40 million space bonuses that gave themselves the seeming credit for their winnings? Excuse me, but what did Stockholm Arbitration decide on the basis of bribes or on the basis of a 10-year gas transit agreement where the principle of "pay or transit" was definitive? So we have a key question. On another occasion, we will not get the Polish Baltzerovich who brought the country out of the crisis, and the country that was one of the most distant countries has become the best in the reform experience. Unfortunately, we will again forget the key names of the ministers of the economy, the prime ministers, the first vice-ministers, and that will remain only on paper, because the first thing that the government starts is from the government's agenda, under which we appoint ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u209	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, this is the end of the Ukrainian version of the "game in the squid" series, and the other ministers are out of the game, and the other ministers are also in the applause, no promises and no excuses. No one has heard their report and no one will hear what they have done or, above all, have done in office. But this is not the biggest problem. The problem is that this government is changing the fourth minister of the economy, and we're getting an increase of not more than 3 percent, so we're going to get 2022, 2023 and 2024, that's the problem. It is not a problem that we have Minister Taran overturned everything that was possible and created a host of corruption scandals. There was a problem with the fact that there was no planning that the broken supply, that many things that could be done, as my colleague Sergey Rachmanin said today, was not done. And that's people's lives. It is not a problem that we already have a third minister of health in the government. The problem is that today you jointly supported the Inna Sowsun bill, which instead of the government solves the oxygen supply problems that needed to be solved six months ago. It's not even a problem that we don't have a twice-approved program in the government. The problem is that the government still has no vision and where they lead the country. Not the President's Office, not the President, but the government is supposed to show us this program. Unfortunately, we haven't seen her. Dear colleagues, many of you have spoken in private today about what you no longer expect during the vote, and more so after what has gotten better in the country. Most of these votes will not get worse in the country. And in this question, you probably have a logic. Not bad candidates. Regarding those appointed, many of whom were already in this government, not bad candidates. So, dear candidates, you're going on a difficult mission. I would very much like you not to be alone in the midst of a crowd of ignorant people who will lead you. And the main thing is that you don't become part of this crowd. So I hope you can convince us in your position that you've done a little bit, but still better. Because the worst thing is, I wouldn't want to be after two years of your reign. The Voice faction won't vote for personnel issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u211	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Papiev Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u212	Thank you. I give the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u213	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u214	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Julia Anatolyevna and Paul Borisovich, your revenge will depend on economic and social stability in our country. I would like to suggest that you resume what has been lost since 2013. This may, indeed, be the economic and, as a result, the social breakthrough that awaits the whole of Ukraine, and I hope, the President of Ukraine is expecting you. This is to restore the economic power of our country through the return of the goods in the direction we have lost. The trade with the EU has indeed increased as a percentage, but the real money has not changed much. And that, unfortunately, is true. And the trade with Russia has dropped, by five times, by 30 billion dollars, of which 12 billion is the lost export of Ukrainian businesses. So I really want you to take and restore the right direction if you're worried about the economy. As far as I'm concerned. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Mikolo, you're the third person in the state to know that today was a disgrace for you in Zakarpatta. Get out there first. I want to go to Irina Andrianna. Irina Andriyovno. Where? And, I'm sorry, Mrs. Irina, you still enjoy the privilege of being in the board chair of the Ukrainian national deputy. You know, for many years I've known you since Ravi-Russia. Then, without knowing you personally, all of us, the opposition stood in defense of the chastity that took place with you. Then it was different in our relationship, but I felt your desire, as you kindly, beautifully spoke, to get out of our kindergarten in the Supreme Council. You wanted to go to another job and you got it, and that's good. But I cannot agree with you and I will discuss with you about your vision of the main, without which there is no economic growth, namely the resolution of the Donbasa crisis, the return of our people and territories under the control of the Ukrainian authorities. This is not possible if you do not want to talk to them, especially those who live there, not with those you are comfortable talking to. And don't ask the question "border or elections," the answer to that question was given by our partners from France and Germany in your clusters, study them. And as the person who made the first tripartite group meeting with Medvedchuk, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussions on factions and we have only a few speeches left from the national deputies. People's MPs please sign up for the speech, it takes up to six minutes. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u216	Dear Chairman, please pass the word to the Gethmans' Daniel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u217	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, there are challenges to the country. They go actually, we have one front in the east, another front we have with the coronation. And at this difficult time, we appoint ministers. We appoint people we've already worked with: work on other shows, work on other jobs. Personally, I'd like to point out, about Julia Anatolyevna Sviridenko. In the toughest times of the shipdown, we worked together all day long, and with opposition we also worked on bills for business aid. We've passed industrial parks bills together, investment babysitters, the tax section. We worked together very hard in this working class mode, taking very important legislative initiatives. This person is highly professional, a person is highly professional, by the way, as are our other candidates today. And I am convinced that it will greatly strengthen the economic bloc. I would like us to understand what we expect from the economic bloc and what we expect from economic development. We look forward to the implementation of the principles that we proclaimed when we went to the elections. We expect that in the end, not only by adopting laws but also by implementing them, we support the Ukrainian industry. You and I are going to create new jobs by starting new businesses, new industrial enterprises with a high value added. We're going to be able to turn the structure of the domestic economy from the raw materials it's been through over the last seven years into an industry that it should be in a developed country. As a result, we will stop the flow of personnel from Ukraine, create jobs, and enable people to earn what they earn in Europe. Today, we have certain gains. We have the highest average wage in history, our minimum wage is higher than Russia, Belarus and Moldova's minimum wage. We have an increase in foreign direct investment since the beginning of the year, in August, a month of $4.2 billion. But that's obviously not enough and I want ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u219	I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. He's handing Alexia over to Yuriovich Kucherenko. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u220	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it is quite clear that the personnel vachanalia, the horde that the ruling coalition is offering us today, has nothing to do with some thoughtful system of government. Yesterday, some ministers were filmed, and the V.E.R. is not clear why, today, they are being appointed. I personally have good, positive sentiments and sentiments with regard to some candidates for ministers, but I can say that unfortunately or fortunately, we will not be able to support any candidate. And now, specifically, I want to say in terms of the highest, most important position in this cohort of candidates for the First Vice-Prime Minister, the Minister of Economics. Please tell me, do we have an economy in the country at all? Ask any man. Please tell me, for two years, the Fatherland faction has been trying to convince you, dear colleagues, and the whole society, without answering the question, where the taxpayers' money is being paid, where they are disappearing in billions of dollars in the country's main monopoly -- NAK Naftogaz Ukraine -- we will never be able to move forward, because your assurances in a sincere position, they will never be accepted. You can't be honest with society until you give an answer: where are the 225 billion bracelets that the Derjaudite report said about? Where and why did the money go, tens of billions, to the 20/20 program? These questions are tectonic. And in this context, I want to ask. How can you be in the position of Vice-President of the President's Office, who is in charge of energy problems, problems of so-called markets: the gas market, the electricity market, where there is chaos today, how can you claim to be the minister of the economy? How could this cadence not provide an elementary order, not to conduct an audit of Naftogazu NAC, not to answer the main tectonic question of Ukrainian society: what is the real cost of Ukrainian gas? Why do Ukrainians pay five or seven times for this gas, Ukrainian? Why is our business on the verge of survival today, because it has to consume gas at 35-40 bucks? These are the key answers. And to convince society that Mrs. Julia will be able to give them, on these questions, the answers in the position of the Minister of Economics, the First Vice-Prime Minister, is not a sincere position, it is a manipulative position. That's why we don't take this personnel policy, your so-called policy explicitly. I don't think the Ukrainian people will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. We're moving with you to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. In accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution, I am voting on a proposal. Dear colleagues, please have a seat in Parliament. Please. Dear colleagues, please invite a colleague to the hall. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, have put to the vote the proposal for the appointment of Vreschuk Irina Andrivni Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:44:45]] For 260 Decision taken. Hello, Irina Andriyevna. We want to inspire you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, this is just the first vote. Show me the factions, please. Next. In accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Rybikin Pavel Borisovich as Minister for Strategic Industries of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:45:38]] For 237 Decision taken. We also welcome Paul Borisovich with this. [[Applause]] Let's see the factions. And the next vote. In accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of Sviridenko Yulia Anatoliyovna as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:46:23]] For 256 Decision taken. I welcome Julia Anatolyevna, and we wish to all our colleagues. Please don't break up again, friends. I'd like the profile committees, along with the apparatus, to form the right ones. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Please make appropriate decisions with the Apparatus on the outcome of the decisions we have made. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" in the case of submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an application for the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a person who is a national deputy of Ukraine, are added to the submission of a personal statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy on the term of appointment of a deputy in the case of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The question of the composition of Ukraine’s national deputy office is addressed immediately after its appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the same meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, according to the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ukrainian National Deputy Irina Andriyevna Vreeshuk wrote an application for her to be appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable national deputies, prepare for the vote. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine puts to the vote the proposal to suspend the term of office of Ukraine's national deputy Vereshuk Irina Andrijavni. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:48:14]] For 319 For – 318. Decision taken. I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is invited to take an oath to the rostrum, Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Irina Andriyevna Vrejestuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u222	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Vereshuk Irina Andriyevna, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. Thank you all, colleagues. Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u223	Thank you. Irina Andriyevna, thank you. And we hope that you will work as hard as you have worked as a national deputy in Ukraine. Thank you. Just swear, please, we have to put her on the case. The Minister of Strategic Industries of Ukraine, Paul Borisovich Ryabikin, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please, Paul Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u224	An oath from a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. I, Rubikin Pavel Borisovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u225	Welcome, Paul Borisovich. Take your place in the government’s bed. We also wish you perfection for the benefit of Ukraine. And the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Economics of Ukraine Julia Anatoliyevna Sviridenko – is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Julia Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u226	I, Sviridenko Julia Anatoliyevna, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u227	Thank you. We also welcome you, Julius Anatolian, and wish you a powerful economic advance for the benefit of our nation. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, your government is well-staffed. Thank you, colleagues. That's the question we're done with. The next question we have is the appointment of artificial Veacheslav Vasilovich as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? No discussion? Discussed. Guys, I can't go any other way. Dear colleagues, why don't we save some time and go? No, I understand. There are people who insist on necessity in principle, and I can't say no. Therefore, according to article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is appointed to serve as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 8 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is hereby appointed and proposed. Therefore, a proposal is made for the appointment of the Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Viacheslav Vasilovich Stuchnych. The next order of business is proposed. The candidate's appointment is up to five minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I offered, my friends. Guys, once again, let's do it this way. I'll read who doesn't want to, you just don't take the word. But those who desire to do so must act, for that is their holy right. You don't want any more? There were two factions who wanted to. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, guys. Let's, if you don't mind, I'll ask the faction leaders to step forward for a minute, and then we'll make a decision, you don't split. Heads of factions and groups, please come here. Dear colleagues, Parliament is not only a place for discussion, but also a place for making wise decisions. This proposal has been made, and now we are going to vote a reduced procedure, and we're only going to give two -- in favour, two -- against, and we're going to make a decision, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues, therefore, with your permission, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified form: reports, two in favour, two in favour, and then we go to the vote. Please support this decision. [[13:55:45.]] For 284 Decision taken. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Chief of the Supreme Council of Vejacheslav Vasilovich artificial. In 2 minutes, Vejacheslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u228	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear National Deputies! It's an honor to be on this rostrum today, thank you all for your confidence. I will not stop at what we did in 2019 during the start of the reform of Parliament and the Apparatus. I want to stop at what needs to be done. First of all, in interaction and fruitful communication with the Ukrainian National Deputies, the apparatus must comply primarily with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. Secondly, we need to speed up the dijetalization processes and be modern not only in electronic documents, but in the issue of admission to the Supreme Council premises, in the use of service vehicles, etc. As you already know, we've managed to run an electronic documentary and ensure that Parliament works online under quarantine restrictions, but we still have a lot to work on. Third. We must work with the leadership of the Supreme Council and, of course, work fruitfully with the people's deputies of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Parliamentary Service Act. A very important question, I think, is the creation of a research service that will strengthen the information and analysis component of Parliament's work. And another important point is the creation of a training centre that will be used and worked for both the Aparatou workers and the Ukrainian National Deputies. The issue of increasing transparency and openness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reforming Parliament's "Council" channel to make it competitive is a topical issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u229	Thank you, Vjacheslav Vasilovich. You've said a lot, and we'll do more, I believe it. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u230	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered the proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyyovich, to run for office as Head of the Supreme Council. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 35, of the Constitution, part four of article 91 of the Act on State Service, the Head of the Apparatus is appointed by Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. In turn, the provisions of article 8 of the Rules stipulate that the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council shall appoint and propose a candidate for the office of Chief of Staff. I would like to remind you that from July 16, 2020, to this day, the position of Chief of the Supreme Council Apparatus is vacant. In summary, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the Supreme Council be included in the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without a vote on the appointment of Mr. Veacheslav Vasilovich as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u231	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, please, we agreed: two for, two for, against, I ask the factions to register who wants to speak on this issue. The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u232	Please give it to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u233	Mrs. Solomia Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u234	Thank you. You know, really, a year without a job. A year without the head of the Supreme Council's apparatus can be heard and can be traced to the work and quality of the entire Supreme Council as well as of each individual individual deputy. This is marked both by quality and by the speed of decisions taken or not made at the right time. What's more, I'm silent about the building of the Supreme Council committees, which is actually a whole trampoline of defeats and has won periodically how to get to this Supreme Council, especially to colleagues or international partners. What's more, I want to remind everyone that we have in May at the end of 2022, 27-30 May, for the first time, we're going to adopt the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which has the right requirements, and Parliament will certainly be the main subject to be hosted by our colleagues and our partners. I would very much like for us to really accept it at an extremely high level, and from Kiev, the parliamentarians of other countries would be pleased, with the feeling and understanding that everything was done at the highest level, including the parliamentary level. Therefore, it is time for respectable colleagues to determine whose name and surname will be the person who will either fail or actually set up normal communication and work not only for the deputies but also for the entire body of the Supreme Council’s apparatus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u235	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the spikeriad in Parliament began by accusing the majority of its first issue, Mr. Razumkov, of violating the Rules and not assigning the Chief of Apparatus. That is why today is a very good opportunity for this discussion to look at, and how the new Parliamentary leadership adheres to the Rules. For the second time today, I have had to repeat that I have been waiting for a week for a ruling by the Regulatory Committee, where the withdrawal of Mrs. Tretiakov from five sessions has unanimously been supported, and this vote is not on the agenda. Why? Well, it's just that the vote for the new ministers and ministers has shown why -- because there's no monopoly, 197 votes for the ministers, and they've voted for the oligarchic groups. And the voice of the Third One, of course, was priceless here, so that there were no 196 voices. In fact, we demand that after this vote, and this is the second time I have addressed you, Mr. Chairman, you have put to the vote to remove Mrs. Trinitarian from five plenary sessions. As for Mr. Studney, you are now facing an opposition, please draw your attention away from the "servants." I want to remind you of the regulatory norms that both the authorities and the opposition, those who actually read the tables, have to get these table amendments in ten days. Not as it was yesterday, when the chairman severely violated the Rules and put to the vote a bill so called the oligarchs, when the table was not even electronically available on the Supreme Council website. Similarly, we urge that the order of the day be properly shaped according to the proportion of the factions. I want to remind you, we see the whole country, now the priorities of the majority. It's very important to assign a head to the apparatus. And the opposition bill, which raises payments on subsidies, does not put the doctor’s wages in the agenda again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u237	The word is given to Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u238	Please pass the word to your colleague, Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u239	Please, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u240	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, thank God, you've completed your political assignments. But this assignment is not political. And I think it's important to explain to the Ukrainians what this position means and why it's important. This is about the head of the Supreme Council's apparatus. This is not a political assignment. This cannot be a representative of one faction or party that won the election, or of the President's Office. It must be a representative of the entire Parliament. His work is extremely important because he will not only help us to work qualityly with you, but he will lead the work of more than a thousand civil servants in the Supreme Council's apparatus, more than a thousand professionals from economists, lawyers, and security workers. And it is he who must guarantee honest, independent conclusions for the bills, for the work of the secretariats, for the correction of our sometimes mistakes, especially those made in the turbines. And that's what we do -- save and multiply the public service in the Apparatus -- we put it in front of him. You know, colleagues, I used to dream very, very hard that government officials would be independent of politics and choose for their profession, not on the criteria of loyalty. Sadly, this did not happen in the country. But in the apparatus, the public service is still preserved, and I hope that it will be preserved and will be an example of professionalism. We should also say thank you to the man who is now in charge of the Supreme Council, Mr. Tepuk Mikhail Alexiyovich, who recently celebrated 30 years in the office of State Service in the Supreme Council. And I think that the example that he was showing is a high-quality job is an example for most government officials and exactly for most of the politicians in this country. I think he's going to continue to work and show honest, professional, independent, high-quality conclusions of legal administration. And for this position and for this candidature, we will vote and expect the construction of the state service and not just in the Supreme Council, but in the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u241	The word is given to Pavlovka National Deputy Yuri Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u242	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support your proposed presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We hope that the newly elected Administrator of Apparatus will be responsible and equal to each national deputy, each faction, without favoring one of the factions or the majority. We hope so, and, Vejacelav Vasilovich, I request you to take responsibility for every employee of the Supreme Council's Apparatus. You have the honor of leading the most professional Central Authority apparatus. The Supreme Council's apparatus has gathered the best experts in each field today, and so the conclusions and suggestions that come from the Apparatus today are really extremely professional and it is important that we listen to them all. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support your candidacy and will be clear and tightly in control of all your actions as Head of the Supreme Council's Apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, please, Sergey Jaroslavovich Rudik, and after that, let us proceed to the vote, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, when Vejacheslav Vasilovich was retired, I did not vote. I'll explain why. When I became sick with a coven in the first hundred Ukraine, no one was involved in this parliament, neither the Head of the Supreme Council nor his deputies, what was happening to Rudik’s health. Then my colleague and no one else, except Vjacheslav Vasilovich, got sick. He nursed us, and I personally appreciate it. I would like to wish him, I would now vote in favour of returning to this office, remain as human as I am, and remember that positions come and go, and human relations remain. Both you and the people with you and other candidates for large positions would like to remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u245	Thank you. Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, and let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the polls. Your remotes are there. Please take your seats. Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u246	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Our group will support this candidate for headship today in the Parliamentary Apparatus. Since Parliament has been headless for a year, God has given the head to work and maintain order in this room. And by the way, I'd like to thank you. Sergey Vyacheslav Artichny helped when the Magnificent became sick with the crown virus, and so did I, and many, as Sergius Rudik said, helped many. And I am convinced that in the future we will still be able to bring order to Parliament. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u247	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules puts to the vote the proposal for appointment as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Supreme Authority, Viacheslav Vasilovich Stuchnych. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:10:22]] For 315 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Welcome to the Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Apparatus, who is assigned to the responsible office. I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have made. Thank you. Váchaslav Vasilovich, welcome. Dear colleagues, we have it now. came from two factions for a break with a replacement for the performance. Please, who's it going to be? Bobrowski. Samantha Bobrowski. Please come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u248	Solomia Bobrovsky, the Justice Union, and all her colleagues, friends, MPs who knew Catherine Hanszük, or were familiar with her activities, or knew her friends, who for the third year have stood up to finally know the names and surnames of not only the perpetrators, but also the customers of this shameful murder. Today we began this day with a moment of silence for Catherine Hanszük. Today our friends went to her cemetery. And, you know, I'm more than convinced that it's for us, for all of Ukraine, that it's become a person who's shown a rod, a spike in the central power of the Kiev, the local, the local elite and, very often, the police. I don't think I'm gonna find anything new for you. No president, all the presidents used it, and the local authorities used it, they covered it up, you know, you know, you know the pattern of hand washing, and you know when they get in over their homework. This was the case with the acid poured out on Catherine in July. Sadly, the young man who did so had already been released from prison in the summer under the conditions of cooperation with the investigation. And unfortunately, this investigation hasn't moved since Rybosapka and Trepak were released. I have a huge request to the Minister of Internal Affairs to make a move, and to the Attorney-General, including, to give these cases a move, and finally to have this cadence of Parliament put in dots, who ordered the murder of Catherine Gandzük.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u249	I remember November 1st, 18th, when Angela Merkel, an example for Katy, arrived in Ukraine. We then gave Angela Merkel a T-shirt, which is now on us, and Katya was still able to see it and be glad that she was, so far away, but met with an example of women's leadership at the time. This is our responsibility with you. I think that if she were alive, and that call would be completely different. I am very grateful to the authorities, who are not stopping the investigation from happening right now. Sadly, our judicial system is very slow to establish justice. But I'm asking everyone, very much thank you to the Parliament, who's stood up completely, to check that justice isn't just in this case, but in the affairs of many hundreds of public activists has been brought to an end, and we've heard the TSC report not about the facts, but about the achievements.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, as chairman of the interim commission of inquiry on the attacks on Catherine Gandzück and other civil activists, I call on you, the report of the interim commission submitted on December 2, 2020, let us now put it into the agenda and we will vote on this day. And this will be a great thank you to all those who have fought for justice in the case of Catherine Gandzück. It's Catherine Hansuk's movement, it's the Helsinki Society, it's the defenders who put hundreds of hours of their lives into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u251	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today at the meeting of the heads of the deputy factions and groups, a decision was taken to review the draft Order (registration number 4445) on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary control over the investigations of the attacks on Catherine Hanszük and other civil activists during 2017-2018. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this issue is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. That's why. And besides, we had an agreement that we would now vote on this issue without discussion. If there are no other initiatives, then, honourable national deputies, let us move on to making a decision. I'm betting on a vote for the whole draft Decree (registration number 4445) on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary control over the investigations of the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists during 2017-2018. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:15:45.]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. And extreme. On the issue of 6270, unfortunately, the documents are still not ready. So we're going to go straight to 3205-2. People's deputies, please prepare. Come to the rostrum. Now, who's gonna report to us, the head of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy of Blackmaurov Artem Olegovich. Please. I wanted to ask. I have already received from some national deputies the amendments they will insist on. So what I want to ask you is, how do we better build our work? Let's maybe start with those deputies that have already given, and then I'll ask others to give you your amendments. Dear colleagues, we have asked the national deputies to come up with proposals that will be made, let's announce a technical recess for 15 minutes so that everyone can. And then we go back to the hall. Let's go back to the hall at 14:35. I'll call it a break until 14:35. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our plenary session. We're looking at Bill 3205-2, this is the draft Law on the Partial Loan Guarantee Fund in Agriculture. Let's do some repairs. 1 amendment, national deputy Kabachenko Volodymir. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u253	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Amendment number one, which is rejected by the committee. The law proposes to determine that the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Agricultural Loans will be both state-owned and exclusive. Since the fund is created by the State in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and its participant at the same time may be the State and the legal persons, it is logical that the fund itself will have the word "state" in its name. The granting of the status of the State fund and the establishment of such a name will provide additional guarantees for the State’s activities. Amendment 1 of the request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u254	Thank you. You insist on voting. Amendment number one, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:20]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 4. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you now three minutes to base the key on my changes, and then I'll give you the list that I'm asking you to go on every direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u256	Please give us four minutes to justify Sergei Vladislavovich, and we'll follow those directions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u257	Thank you. I'm very grateful that the committee listened to the concept that I taught and my colleagues in the Fatherland faction that 11 rights are included. But there is a key difference. I want to warn the hall that we understand what different approaches, what relationship history, because I'm convinced that this World Bank loan should be used exclusively for farmers. And you're actually going to see that there's no double interpretation, and that's what this article is going to define. So what's the big difference? My position and my colleagues on the faction that they will present in their papers is the following. In order to support a small, medium-sized landowner, the farmer, whom you know, is being drastically reduced over the years, needs to have the funds, including international aid, and you know, these are the costs of the World Bank itself, go directly to repay the loans. But there is no way that these funds would be used to make the mortgage actually land, which then, in the event of failure by the farmers, went from them to other property. And that's what all of the practical changes that go along with the text are, and I've passed them on. And actually, each of these rights is actually a different approach, or this is a fund as a commercial institution that has a government that receives a salary, and that we won't find in a while, because it's unknown who's going to report at the expense that they were. We have this kind of fund in the history of Ukraine, we have this example of tens. And in this way, international aid cannot be wasted. So our proposal, which is banks, state banks, which actually have the history of credit policies of those who will turn to them, who can control this over years, maybe decades, so that they don't get caught up in fraud, so there are no schemes that allow for the laundering of international aid funds. And that's what's going to be controlled by state banks. And the fund is just a union that allows us to do it in a way that is actually regulated by our rights. Unfortunately, as it happens in the concept that the committee has, the fund is an institution that actually does all the financial transactions, guarantees and everything. So my proposition is, because eleven, I think, of course, important rights are taken into account, keep moving. I gave you a list of my rights in every direction so that we could talk. So this is an institution that manages the costs of international organizations and maybe government funds if they're set up there? Is this the exclusive prerogative of banks that have an absolutely clear control over each loan that they have the ability to give farmers the mechanism that will cost these loans that will go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u258	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Right now, let's move on to your 4 revisions. Please 4 amendments, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. She's been rejected by the committee. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u259	What's this paper about? My rights clearly lay down requirements for participants and loans, some of which are guaranteed, as well as criteria that are further defined by law. I don't understand, even if I follow your concept, why you rejected the amendment, where a clear definition is in addition to the article that was on the first reading to define the criteria, the list. So that the 450 million dollars that have been given will not then be gone by the wind. Think of this terrible story with Moldova, where 1 billion euros of aid was lost. And this is a question that has been under investigation for years. So whatever happens, it's very important to define this list clearly. I'm asking the committee to support this, obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u260	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u261	Dear colleague, thank you so much for your question and for your correction. But I would like to point out that we have repeatedly answered this question and said that there is a fundamental criterion, one criterion that, in principle, is that 500 hectares, farms, farmers who have up to 500 hectares, have the right to apply to the Partial Loan Guarantee Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u262	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[2:49:02]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 5, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u263	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Artem Olegovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, we have to understand, and I'm sure that each of us understands that this law is absolutely corrupt. Unfortunately, there was a strange tradition that did not allow any of the so - called land market reforms to be considered by the Anticorruption Policy Committee. But fortunately, more than a year ago, the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy signed a memorandum with an organization that provides anti-corruption conclusions on every bill registered in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So by going back to Bill 3205-2, this organization, namely the Institute of Legislative Ideas, recognized this bill as completely corrupt and pointed out four exclamation points.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u264	I'll bet on the vote amendment number five of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:31]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Amendment 8, Yvchenko Vadim Evgenovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u265	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please 8th, 43rd, 54th, 77th and 107th, give me 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u266	8th, 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u267	54th, 77th and 107th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u268	Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u269	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, do you know what the problem is with this law? First of all, this law was not written by an agrarian committee, and here stands the author, who was definitely not the initiator of the relevant theory, what the Deposit Guarantee Fund is. First. It's not money, it's insurance for the bank's first contribution. This is the relationship between the fund and the bank. Now, please tell me if this fund will allow you to lend small, small farmers or family farmers. Banks always take a bet with a factor of 0.5. Banks always need a credit history. This fund is not going to finance small farmers, it's a problem, it's a philosophy problem. The Parenthood, on the other hand, has suggested that if we create farm support funds, they have to give direct money to family farmers, for example, to buy some equipment and so on, it's because of the fund that we can do it. Including the funds, the first contribution can be guaranteed if the bank provides the funds. And the main thing is to completely change the lending that is currently taking place in the banking sector. You see, when they enter Ukraine of investment, 5 percent of the Bank's capital is 5. Banks do not lend to the direct sector, banks do not lend to the industry, banks try to speculatively make money through the OGA because they do not want to risk, invest in the Ukrainian industry or in our context of the agrarian sector. As legislators, we must commit the banking system when you have adopted the land market, the banking system, and the fund to work in such a way that a small farmer and a family farmer can benefit. This is the social aspect of the village. These are jobs, colleagues. Four million people, four who don't have the status of a manufacturer. So give them status, give them the opportunity to be family farmers. Twenty percent of them are a million jobs. And that's supposed to be the minister going out to the rostrum, not saying that we took the extra money out of the country, but saying that we created 100,000, 200, and yesterday we did. And yesterday we'll create a million jobs. That is how agricultural policy in the country should work, and that is how this law should work. And the philosophy of this law will not allow a small, small, and family to take advantage of the benefits that exist today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u270	Thank you. Vadim Evgenovich, do you insist on putting them to the vote, or can we move on? We can move on. Thank you. Next amendment 10. Put them to the vote? No, no, I get it, we're coming, get out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's get to those five, then I'll give you the rest, because right here. I've written down the amendments you've just spoken. Let's move on, 10th Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u271	Thank you. This right over here is actually about the key thing: who's going to get this money going. So let's think about how farming was created. They have been handed over to them in the enjoyment of the land’s right of inheritance. This is the beginning of the 1990s. Next, they were wasted. What do you mean, You just took it away from the Earth code, but then it was passed on, and they inherited 50 hectares to their children, which you are now forcing them to buy. The other one. They were given loans when he took credit, and as a percentage, they were assured that he would actually be able to buy grain, technology and everything. And that's exactly what I'm writing about a particular not-so-washed record, but that it's only about farming, so that there's no ambiguity. That's my job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u272	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. I'm putting to the vote the 10th amendment of the People's Deputy Sobolev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:58]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 11, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u273	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Going back to anti-corruption and unfortunately corruption in the bill, you can choose here, your choice, your peers, both discretion, and legal uncertainty, and the use of evaluation concepts. So I can go on for a very long time, but let's move on to a particular example. If Artem Olegovich agrees to answer that question, I will be very grateful in advance. For example, the project does not banally define the legal form of the fund: whether it will be an equity society, or a limited liability society, a state institution or other legal form, which makes it impossible to resolve such fundamental and fundamental issues as the order in which the statutory capital of the fund is formed, the order in which it is increased and reduced, and a number of other issues. Please tell me why you don't want to settle.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u274	I'm betting on the 11th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:29]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 12. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u275	Mr. Head, I suggest you give me five minutes from the 12th to the 75th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u276	Please give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u277	Dear friends, all who are watching us on TV right now and listening, I want to start by saying that this law is essentially a continuation of the sale of agricultural land, including enterprises with foreign capital, to practically foreign participants in the land market. I just want us all to understand what this is all about. You all remember the adoption in this room at night of the Law on the Sale of Agricultural Land, at night during the COVID epidemic, during quarantine. But it was a priority issue to satisfy the world's international lobbyists, including the monopolies that work inside Ukraine, in order to get the Ukrainian land out of the hammer. You all remember that well. You remember that at that time, there were voices in this room with interest to sell the Ukrainian land. And believe me, not the farmers, because at first they wanted to give 200,000 acres in one hand, and then they wanted to sell the land to foreigners. And then they found an option that they thought would close the ears and eyes of Ukrainian society. And they found a two-year option that we sell to Ukrainian citizens, we sell 100 hectares, and two years later we sell 10,000 hectares to foreigners, and so on. But this is a lie because that law provided for the right to own agricultural land to foreign banks (all know this), and for only two years it is granted the right to buy land to farmers and then to foreigners 10,000 acres [10,000 ha]. I could say that it was a great deception, and on Ukrainian soil agricultural operations are now under way and are preparing large speculative operations. Now, there are thousands of contracts for sales of land rations that are not made on farmers, don't think about it, they're formed on intermediaries, they're built on pounds that for two years are accumulated on such pounds in fact that they just have a last name, but they don't have any agricultural business, they're going to accumulate layers of land, and then they're going to be selling this land at speculative prices, and then they're going to be selling this land in Ukraine, taking agriculture, and making trillions of dollars. That is how they act today. Our team went to the Constitutional Court because this law on the sale of agricultural land violated almost 21 articles of the Constitution. And early, and late, when the present patriotic Ukrainian authorities arrive in Ukraine, the Constitutional Court, which is now paralyzed with deliberate authority, will repeal this law on the sale of agricultural land. Our team also approached the people, and according to the Referendum Act, they tried to hold a nationwide referendum. Sadly, though, the Central Election Commission, which has most of its own authorities, has blocked the holding of a referendum against the sale of agricultural land. It was done on purpose, and so the referendum is the fairy they're telling you. In fact, people cannot defend their rights and hold a referendum. But we went to court to sue the Central Electoral Commission's decision, and the first court body admitted that the CEC's decision was illegal and that they unlawfully banned people from holding a referendum against the sale of agricultural land. Now we're expecting a second facility, but at this time they're going to extend this law, which is now going to vote again in quarantine, they're going to be pulling again almost at night, because it's going to be a lot of hours to look at it. And now they want to sell land to foreign foundations on such a cunning scheme. I want the next time I have a speech in a while, I'll do it again, for God's sake, have 5 minutes, and I'll tell you in detail how this agricultural land sale law that they want to vote on will work and how Ukraine will be deprived of Ukrainian agricultural land and farmers of the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u278	Thank you. The 17th Amendment of Soboljeva. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u279	Sobolev, 17 lashes. That's actually the key line. See, the drafters of the bill and I are absolutely clear on the first sentence that the founder of the fund is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because it gives guarantees to the World Bank, takes these commitments under guarantees, takes these funds. But now it's logical for the assets of the fund to be state property. Why are you against this record? It is logical that the fund cannot transfer or resell the right of debtors. How else could it be? And the last. The guarantees provided by the fund must be irreversible, for the fund will provide a guarantee, for example, to the farmer, and then it will be taken away. What are we talking about? Why do you mind if you think this is the owner of the Cabinet of Ministers? I think you should have supported that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u280	I bet on the vote of 17 the amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:04:17]] For-68 The decision is not taken. He then requested three minutes of the National MP Yvchenko instead of the amendments: 163, 209, 226, 231, 236. Vadim Evgenovich, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u281	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'd like to ask Julia Volodymyrovn's permission to put to the vote, because she already had a word after my speech. And give me three minutes again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u282	Julia Volodymyrna, I'd like a list of the amendments. You said, 12 to 75, I'd have to look for them then. Let's do it next time, if you don't mind, 'cause I need to look for your full name. If I may, Julia Volodymyrna. We're going to listen to Vadim Evgenovich now, and you, if you don't mind, give me a list. Vadim Eugeneovich, three minutes to go. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u283	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the goal of any agar reform is to create jobs, to develop rural areas. Regrettably, this law and what is proposed, what reform, it does not allow for the development of rural areas or the development of small agricultural businesses. In that, colleagues, there's a problem when we're talking about, and who's selling land today, and these sales deals are happening. Who are these people? These people who have long taken the money, they just form their own land, or they go to sell it, colleagues who today are cost-effective, whether it's housing services, whether it's teaching children, or living conditions, and so on. Colleagues, I'll tell you what, and they're selling them to not quite small farmers, but big corporations. And if you look at the analysis report of the global-known corporation, the Land Matrix analytics corporation, which said that 30 percent of today's holdings, and actually our lands are in the use of financial corporations that have taken resources from abroad. So our land actually works for those who grow raw materials here and get crazy profits. Colleagues, did you want to be like Cuba or North Korea when you took the moratorium? So now this land market is putting Ukraine right next to countries like Papua New Guinea, Ethiopia. Is that what we wanted with you? Brazil or Argentina. Colleagues, that's the problem, that the market of land that is proposed is completely violating the agrarian policy that is in the world that is voted by UN Security Council resolutions, where the priority is for a family farmer or a small producer, and this law does not allow these producers to take these loans because the loans are given by banks and the banks are only mortgaged with 0.5 coefficients. And unfortunately, not every family farmer has what it takes. The philosophy of this law is not true at all. They compensate, they insure the first contribution, sorry, the borrower. Colleagues, so the whole earth will go to the banks, and the banks will pay the highest rent in large lotions through auctions. Thus, we will not be able to develop the Ukrainian village and conduct ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u284	Thank you, Vadim Eugeneovich. And as your proposal was, I got a list of the rights of Julia Volodymyrna, and then I'll put them in order and I'll ask the hall to determine on them. And so, the 12th amendment of Julia Volodymyr's author Timothyshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:08:37]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 22 by Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:08:58]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 31 by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:09:19]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 35 by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:09:38]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next issue is July 47, Volodymyrni Timoshenko. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[15:09:59]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next number is 63, but it's not rejected by the committee, it's partially counted. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko's offer to take fully into account. Please identify and vote. [[15:10:25]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. And 75 amendments to the authorship of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:10:49]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment number 20. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, we need to make clear what law this fund will be working for. And my offer is clear enough. That it is a non-bank financial institution that meets the requirements set by the National Bank of Ukraine for non-bank credit institutions. To continue to be the responsibility of this fund, the leaders. So that they don't hide around the world, they don't avoid responsibility, but they do, so that it's clearly established in the law, which is governed when loans are granted, by loan guarantees. And are law enforcement authorities guided when they search and where do 450 million go? So the offer is to support it. You and I have just passed the Non-Banking Financial Institutions Act, where we have brought all the charges, coming from the latest realities where Nazbank was installed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u286	I'm betting on the vote on the 20th amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:12:20]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next one's 21st. Cabachenko, please, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u287	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Continuing the corruption of the bill. Small and medium-sized enterprises, owned and/or used for agricultural land in a range not exceeding 500 hectares, have the right to partially guarantee the performance of their credit agreements. However, the project does not set out the requirements for its founders. This gives large agribusiness the right to create a range of small enterprises owned and/or operated by agricultural land in the range of up to 500 hectares that receive fund guarantees. A very simple and logical question to Artem Olegovich, which are the specific fuses -- I ask you to answer this question -- set in this bill, which prevents a situation that I have just drawn to you in my comment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u288	Please, Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for asking. See, you always raise the subject of corruption, which, in principle, in this bill simply cannot exist. And what you're saying is that even if large players in the agro-industry market split into small ones to get the first guarantees, first of all it doesn't make sense to them, because the fund's very purpose is to guarantee that sector of producers that have up to 500 hectares. This is the first time. The second is micro-producers. And the main thing is, these are the ones that are making the agricultural product to get small businesses out of the shadow sector or in general what they were. "dark" worked. This was the very main task of this fund. And there's no corruption at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u290	Thank you. I'm betting on the 21st amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:14:39]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 26. People's representative of Crybaby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would really like to thank the committee for taking some of my amendments into account, so today I'm not going to insist on all my amendments. But unfortunately, part of it isn't the main part. Amendment 26 suggests that we exclude the rule of Article 1, which allows international financial organizations to participate in the fund. In fact, there are many of our amendments and my colleagues from different factions. I would like to point out that our position in our amendments is that the foundation of the fund should be exclusively the State of Ukraine and only 100 percent of the statutory capital should belong to the State. You just said there's a cool, loud target for small farmers to get credit. But unfortunately, by this bill, you're opening up the money to large financial organizations. So I'm asking you to support this amendment and, really, get to that goal, about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u292	I'm betting on a vote of 26 amendments to the People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:16:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Next amendment to the 28th, Soboljel, please. Sergei Vladislavovich, 28th amendment is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u293	Thank you. This amendment actually makes it possible to clearly determine how we will continue to decide the operation of this fund. If the fund is state property, because the money the State gives it guarantees that the State is taking guarantees as a liability. Is it clear that the fund should be state property, as otherwise? What's more, my rights don't rule out that the state can also fill this fund. That's perfectly logical. So I don't understand, even though you kill me, why do you refuse to do that? How can the state guarantee be at the expense of, for example, the World Bank? And then what does the World Bank state own? Not like that. Then why?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u294	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote 28th amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:17:47]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 30, Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u295	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Dear Artemé Olegovich, as we continue our dialogue, the methodology for conducting anti-corruption expertise was developed and approved by me, it was developed and approved by the Ministry of Justice in 2014. And so my task as Secretary of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee is to lead you to what corruption risks are objectively present in this bill. I've already given you three concrete arguments, three specific presences of corruption in this particular bill. I'll keep going. Because once again, the task of our committee is to warn you if you deliberately or unconsciously write in the text of the bill some moments that are corrupt. This is our problem and this is our theme. This bill has not gone through the expertise of our bill, and that's why right now I'm going to report to you all the absolute corruption risks that are in this bill, and there are a lot of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u296	I'm betting on the vote for the 30th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:19:20]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 36. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u297	I have 33rd. It's a very important amendment, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u298	Excuse me, 33rd, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u299	Where are the funds stored? You have it written down, respected authors: just in commercial banks. People, don't submit to future fund management. You realize that you are misleading them. Let's write it down: in institutions of state banks. It's possible to control. You see, the state provides guarantees, and the funds are placed in any commercial bank. And then you're going to be looking for 450 million dollars all over the world. Tell me, how could such an amendment not be supported? Private Bank, a bank, for example, the same export bank. Why don't you trust them? Then how do you control it? Hold on, I'm talking to everybody, this whole thing, it makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u300	I'm betting on the 33rd amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:20:52]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 36. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u301	It's a big request, because you and I both agree that the government budget can also invest money into this fund, and you agree with that, it's in the preceding articles. It's very simple for me to ask that the Ukrainian National Budget Act for the next year provides for funding for the current activities of the fund, which makes sense. How are you going to make this money, so that it's transparent? So we're approving this year's budget, you're saying we're ready to fill a fund, like 5 billion. But this is supposed to be in the government budget, and where are you going to get this? So I have a request to support this. And, Mr. Chairman, we agreed, the committee rejected, that's their right, but you don't have to express your support or otherwise. I'm asking the committee to back it up, otherwise you'll fill in the funds of this fund, it makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u302	I take it, the main claim is just to say yes. All right, Sergey Vladislavovich, we got a deal. I'm betting on the vote for the 36th amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[15:22:33]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 38th. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u303	The next corruption risk of the bill. The project does not define the purpose and use of loans that are guaranteed by the Fund, which in turn creates the possibility of using them to guarantee loans taken by small and medium-sized enterprises in ownership and/or in the use of agricultural land, not only for agricultural activities but also for other purposes. This is already called legal uncertainty. Because the recipient of help and benefits from this fund will be able to manage it in his own discretion. And even if the bill pursues a positive goal, the bill sets out this goal in a very vague and vague way. Correction of request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u304	Thank you. 38. Amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:23:59]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 45th. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u305	I think it's really logical and very important. See what is in the law that the Fund guarantees by partially guaranteeing the fulfilment of the obligations of such entities under credit agreements. I don't know what the more confusing formulation is. So my proposal is very clear: let us support those who cannot fulfill these obligations by guaranteeing this fund. And then it's very simple: by providing guarantees to pay off their extended credit obligations. Then we will support a small, medium-sized farmer, then he has the opportunity to survive in these conditions uneasy. For God's sake, we're going to have a downfall in farming, like this, for example, in the United States ten years ago, or like this was two years ago because of non-fertilization. Well, let's balance this fund and support these farmers, because in the States it's easy with their funds, we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u306	I'm betting on a vote of 45 amendments to the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[15:25:53]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 46. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u307	I would like to report on the following as I continue the corruption and corruption risks set forth in this bill. The absence of proper regulation also takes place in order to define financial institutions that will lend to agricultural enterprises that the fund will provide partial guarantees. The project is only proposed to establish that partial guarantees will be granted for loans granted by financial institutions that have entered into a fund cooperation agreement and respond, I quote, to the "acceptability criteria approved by the Fund Board". Artemé Olegovich, the request for clarification, what do you mean by the criteria of acceptance, and when exactly these criteria of acceptance are approved by the Fund's Council, and why is this procedure not prescribed in the text of this bill? Thank you very much for your answer. Requesting an amendment to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u308	Artem Olegovich, you can explain. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u309	Thank you for asking. Since certain financial institutions that lend and apply to the fund get a list, they have certain features, and you know them very well. Every bank that finances a certain activity in our country should not be at risk. That's the first thing that doesn't happen, as you pointed out, to be a "bankopad." There's a certain priority for banks in our country that have capital as their main asset. The capital that keeps them, well, strong and strong in our country. The foundation, in turn, is the council that accepts it. Five board members, three of whom Ukraine provides, and two of them are foreign, you can do it. Well, foreign advisors, who. And this council then these banks are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u310	I'm betting on the vote 46 amendment of the people's deputy Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:28:24]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next. 2 minutes Vadim Evgenovich Yvchenko instead of amendments: 324, 346, 352, 356. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u311	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you know, thanks to our partners, it was quite different to distribute the funds so that a family farmer, a small farm, could be involved in any process in Ukraine. Ukraine is rich today because 20 percent of the world’s black lands are in our possession. And we can get, as a country, as Ukrainians, we can get the benefits, as Americans say, of benefit. We can develop alternative sources of energy, we can process our agricultural wastes, we, colleagues, we can substitute biogas, biomethane, replace what we import from Russia or from other countries, we can produce electricity. And here it is important to understand that the very attitude toward the Ukrainian land should be caring. Well, how could national interests be claimed in this law? How could a small and family farmer not be able to get the funds? Well, how could we do that, so we're in danger of entering directly into the bank? And banks only work with those who have assets and have exactly 0.5 percent of that coefficient. That's the problem. Banks don't work who doesn't have a credit history. You won't find a bank in Ukraine right now that'll give you money just to buy land with no credit history or no property. You won't find it, colleagues. So you're taking away the opportunity for small family farmers to be part of this process directly working with the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u312	Thank you. Let's move on. The next amendment is 48. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u313	Colleagues, we've just touched on the issues of international experts, international investment. We touched on international issues. The fund’s governing bodies are the general meeting of the participants, the council and the governing body of the fund. The foundation board consists of five persons. The Council appoints state members to the council, and the candidates to the independent members of the Fund will be identified by the agency, and that will be exclusively international agencies. Then, as independent members, the board will be composed of foreign bankers who will pursue politics in the interests of solely Western investors. The question of the next character. We have spent a lot of time in the Council in discussions on supervisory advice, on independent members of these supervisory boards, and on the total lack of effectiveness of independent advice, supervisory advice. Questions. Why do we and this bill want to make the same mistake again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u314	I'm betting on a vote of 48 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[15:32:10]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Instead of amendments, 52, 66, 68, 71, 2 minutes, Kabachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u315	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Turning to the previous subject, about the composition of the foundation’s governing bodies. We have already said that one of the governing bodies is the Council of the Foundation, which will include foreigners who will represent an independent supervisory board. What do you think, an honourable reporter, whose very interests of this fund will be protected by the independent members, the nonresidents of Ukraine, who are members of this council? Will they defend the interests of the Ukrainians, or will they defend the interests of the other nations to whom these independent members of the Supervisory Board are? That's the first question. The second question. Even if you are pursuing the goal of helping a small Ukrainian farm, please provide an answer, and do you not find it more simple and acceptable to help farmers simply by accepting and implementing the appropriate budget program? Not by creating a separate body, not by creating a separate fund that will be made up of people who will receive wages, and actually creating a new fund, it's a very capitalist story. Why do you simply not want to include in the 2022 budget a single article that will be aimed at helping Ukraine’s small farm? And if you, Mr. Reporter, answer me with a clear answer to that very simple and logical question, then I'd get rid of all the other amendments in the text of this bill and not ask you any more questions. Thank you very much for your answer in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u316	Please give me an answer, and then we'll take down all the corrections made by Reverend Vladimir Kabachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u317	Thank you very much for these two questions, and especially for taking all the corrections off, and I will calm you down, and I will be happy to answer them. First of all, there are grants in the budget at present for agross and farmers. And your colleague and I voted on a committee of proposals for these grants of 11 billion dollars of the entire grant program in the agrosector. So I see that this fund right over here is going to be a guarantee to farming, and the key word that's going to be up to, not more than 500 hectares, which is up to, that's going to be 1 to 500. And it's this fund that's going to guarantee to financial institutions that they're going to be able to develop with these grants that I've just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u318	Thank you, thank you. The next 64 is an amendment. People's representative of Crybaby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u319	Thank you very much. The answer was really good, Mr. Reporter. But I have a question: where is the Rural Development Fund? We've probably been talking about this fund for almost a year, and there was a bill somewhere. It is this fund that should go towards the development of rural infrastructure. During your consideration of the land market bill, you said a lot about it, not you personally, but the whole faction. Unfortunately, such a bill does not exist in the country today. And no one says anything about rural development. Now what we're talking about here is how to distribute today, if these are credit costs. And it's very nice if it's going to be set up by Ukrainian soil. And my amendment is actually technical. I want to ask you, what is the end of the fund? Why didn't you support my amendment regarding the term "reorganization and liquidation" in accordance with the Code of Masters? You left it as a stop order. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u320	Artemé Olegovich, please. Or can I explain? Because in the Civil Code, since I'm the expert on this issue, stopping involves two types: liquidation, reorganization. And that's why it's a unified term. If you don't mind, we'll move on. Dear colleagues, I place 64 amendments to the vote of the national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:37:23]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The next amendment is 72. Kabachenko, you will still insist or you will. Okay, 72nd, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u321	Regrettably, the answer given by Artem Olegovich did not make sense to me, and so I will continue to do my work until I have a comprehensive answer to the questions that I will have in the course of the process of going through these rights together. The bill provides for a costly way of costing agrarians the cost of credit resources. The cost of creating the fund is exactly what we talked about the previous time, the formation of statutory capital, the remuneration of employment agencies, the members of the fund's board, these are important articles of expenditure that could directly target the financing of the agrarian's budget support programme. By the way, I didn't see this budget evaluation project. What exactly will the budget require in order for the bill to be implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u322	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 72 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:39:00]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next 74 amendments. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u323	At 74, I have a specific proposal. It's the next thing that the statutory capital of the fund is formed at the expense of the state budget, what we've discussed, other assets of the fund are formed at the expense of its participants. I don't understand why we're in this way completely clear on this, and we don't want to add that the assets of the fund are not privatized? You know, if it was a state that invested money, if, for example, the World Bank invested funds, well, that's absolutely logical that it wouldn't continue to happen. And so my three revisions are 74, 75, and 85, they're in two positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u324	Thank you. I'm betting on the 74th amendment of the Soboljeva People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[15:40:31]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Yeah, now, then we skip. 84, 88 and 94, Crybaby. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u325	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Chairman, if we're already commenting on the amendments, I want to say that, unlike, for example, the Deposit Guarantee Fund or other funds, this fund has a direct purpose. Hence, it may be appropriate to use the Codex of the Master, and this would be the order of reorganization and liquidation. But my three following amendments relate precisely to the fact that the State in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to be 100 percent of the statutory capital of the Fund. This decrease or increase in statutory capital is not allowed because I emphasize that the 84 amendment just says that the only contributor to the fund should be the state. So any increase or decrease in the statutory portion cannot be considered. Thank you. Please support three adjustments: 84, 88, and 89. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u326	With your permission, I'll put them in order. I'm betting on a vote of 84 amendments to the national deputy of Placzkowa. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:42:06]] For-65 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the 88th amendment of the People's Vice-Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:42:28]] For-63 The decision is not taken. And then there's the 94th amendment of the national deputy to Crybaby. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:42:49]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next amendment is 85. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u327	89th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u328	Wait, no, I'm 86.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u329	Well, come on, 86th over there is the last, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u330	86th goes after 85th. If you don't report 85th, then I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u331	No, 85, I didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u332	No, it's imported, Sergey Vladislavovich. Then 86th, Julia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u333	Mr. Head, I'm asking you to give me five minutes from the 86th to the 140th. From 86 to 140, five minutes, and then put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u334	Please, Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u335	Now I would like to address all the people who are listening or watching the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now. Please tell your friends, your neighbors, your acquaintances to just turn on the "Council" channel right now. And to see how now in this room, by adopting this law, called 3205-2, the Supreme Council is having a big affair, such a huge affair in order to make Ukrainian agricultural land, contrary to the positions of the Constitution, still sell to foreign participants in this process. So this is essentially the third law on the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land to foreign participants. And now I want to talk very simply over these five minutes to make it clear to everyone who can hear us right now how this affair is going to work. Imagine, a special fund is being created in the state, and without any status, no one understands what this special fund is, it's a state structure, it's a stockholder society -- what this is, nobody knows. It doesn't seem to fall under any law to resolve the problems that arise. This fund is created by the state's input from the state budget of part of the money. It's from a budget where there's nothing left, where there's nothing to pay salaries to doctors, educators, pensioners, scholarships to students. From this budget, they want to put money into this fund, and to another part of the property of this fund, they want to start international, foreign financial funds, businesses that are being invested in this fund. Foreign participants are given essentially to the management of this fund. What will this fund do? If, for example, the owner of the land, the agrarian or the owner of the pie turns to the bank and wants to get a loan under his land, here neither the power nor the downfall, there's this fund with large foreign capitals, foreign capitals -- I'm stressing who will guarantee this loan for agriculture, for the owner of the pie in front of the bank. And if that happens, then banking policy, course difference, won't allow anything else. Or perhaps weather conditions will prevent agrarians from returning their loans in time, so - called money will practically be the owner of this agricultural land, which will be taken from the farmers, from the owners of the pies, and so on. And then they will be able to manage this earth as they please. Now I want to ask the conscious MPs what the law is going to be, in fact, voting. Please tell me, if the owner of the pie has land, and he wants to take a loan to the bank, and why not put this land in a bank and take a loan, why is there a third participant in the fund? It's very simple because this fund, by collecting money from other foreign non-bank institutions, is essentially going to be a very speculative participant in taking this land, if you didn't get it back on time, reselling, stockpiling, selling, reselling, speculating on it, and actually transferring our Ukrainian land to foreign property. Listen, we're for Ukraine's membership in the European Union. We are in favour of Ukraine working with all European, Western countries. But there is one "but" on the mutually beneficial conditions for Ukraine. And if we treat other countries of the world better, it's not now because, for example, of the World Bank that supports this law, of putting Ukraine in a situation where moneylessness is going to drive our landowners into this affluent scheme and essentially they're going to get rid of the land. If we associate, partner with other countries, with international financial organizations like Ukraine, this is no reason to choose us in conditions we do not control. And that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u336	Thank you. Then I will put all the amendments to Julia Volodymyr's vote. 86 amendment, the author of Timoshenko, was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:49:15.]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The following 104 amendments, by Timoshenko. Please vote. She was rejected by a committee. Please vote. [[15:49:38]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 122 Amendment, authorship of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:50:00]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 124 Amendment of the Authorship of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:50:21]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 127. The amendment of the authorship of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[15:50:41]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 136 Amendment of Tymoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:51:01]] For-65 The decision is not taken. And the extreme in this block is the amendment of 140 by Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[15:51:21]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The next amendment we're going to have is 89th, Soboljel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u337	The three amendments are related, but I ask them to put them to a separate vote. There'll be 89th, 98th. What are we talking about? The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may decide to increase the statutory capital of the Fund. This matches the record that came from the committee. And here's my suggestion that the downsizing of the fund is not allowed. And then, by that logic, the fund is fully responsible for the funds it has received. And in the committee's logic, if someone's not right, they're responsible for that part. But where will you look for those who are underage, and how will you continue to prove it in the courts? So if the fund gets this money, the fund is responsible, it makes sense. So I ask you to put these motions to a vote because they regulate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u338	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote first 89 amendments. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:53:02]] For-81 The decision is not taken. And then there's the 98th Soboljev. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[15:53:24]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich – 3 minutes instead of straights: 406, 410, 428, 445, 460, 465, 476, 479, 487. Instead of these amendments, three minutes. Please, Vadim Evgenovich. All of it. Let's move on then. Let's move on, then the next amendment in 98th, Sobolev, was voted on. Next, 101st and 119th. Crybaby's 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still hope that the Supreme Council Hall will support the proposal that this fund should have the only participant is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So with this amendment 101, I ask you to delete Article 5 on the rights and duties of the Fund participants, because I believe that the participant should be alone. And so I would like to exclude Article 6 from the payment of dividends to the participants. We insist that the only contributor to the fund is the state, and therefore the order of accounting for the state budget of part of the net profit is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Property Management. Why is this important? Because I'm going to remind you that this is an income fund, a profitable organization. And if there are dividends, they have to come to the state budget and be regulated by appropriate legislation. So please support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u340	Now we're going to vote on two amendments to 101 and 119 of the authorship of the national deputy. Let's start with 101. I'm betting on the 101th amendment of the People's Deputy Platcheva. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:55:27]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment was the 119th national deputy to Crybaby. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:55:48]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. If I'm not mistaken, the next 123, Sobolje. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u341	Yes, Sobolev, Fatherland, 123 revisions. To my profound belief, this fund cannot be a profitable organization. What are they going to make money on, the loans they're going to make to farmers? Men, fear God. So my next suggestion is that they can't get any dividends. And the funds that the fund earns should go on to carry out the statutory duties of the fund and continue to support farmers. Can you explain to me why you turned it down? Do you think that you of these farmers will continue to pull something, pay dividends, and in your version it's anybody. And in fact, in this way, the farmer will become even poorer. My version: I made some extra money, please for statutory activity. Give more guarantees to farmers, thus creating additional farms.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u342	I'm betting on the 123rd amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[15:57:32]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 125. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u343	Dear colleagues, 143 law enforcement, fund management. How do they form, how do they function, and how will control take place? My amendment makes it absolutely clear how the state will control the Fund's activities. And this is actually the second time that I insist that this be a non-profit organization, and then this will make it absolutely clear that all the activity is statutory to support agriculture. Thank you. And there's 141th, Cymbaluk, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u344	No, no, that was the first time, I announced 125th, you reported 143rd, I could put two in a row. Okay, Sergey Vladislavovich? I'll bet 125 first, it was rejected. Please vote. The 125th vote is now in session. I just didn't report it to Sergei Vladislavovich. [[15:58:53]] For-68 The decision is not taken. And the 143th that he reported on, I put it to a vote. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:59:14]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is going to be. I'll see you in a minute, maybe by 141st. 141st, please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. We agreed, five minutes, all your corrections from 141 to 205. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u345	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, I would like to address the farmers first, the one-persons with the sad news. This bill isn't for you because a single farmer can't take credit and have a guarantee that he'll partially pay off this fund. Next. Excuse me, why waste money on creating and managing this fund? A number of ten farmers could be helped with these funds. Next thing. You see what's proposed in this fund's board: foreigners. Sorry, we're re-establishing another fund, and representatives of foreign nations are coming to Ukraine to make money. Next thing. When we talk about more efficient use, and let's let the Ministry of Agriculture, which has finally been redesigned, do its work, but agricultural producers have not yet felt that this ministry is working, let it manage these costs and allocate to those farmers who are actually able to use those funds and partially pay off the loans today. Who in the country today can take credit? The one who has the mortgage. Who can take a loan to buy land in the country? Sorry, he doesn't have a bet, and no bank will give him any money. This bill does not solve this problem. Next thing. When we talk about the efficiency of using this money, the World Bank, which partially allocates funds to the Ukrainian authorities, is basically through members of the supervisory or observation board of this fund, it will also manage them. Where are the national interests of our nation? Where is the protection of these farmers? The Supervisory Board or Observation Board will be attended by representatives of international banks and institutions who will be primarily interested in the formation of a bank of Ukrainian land to be owned by foreigners. This is the kind of bill that opens the way for them. In fact, when we talk about creating this fund, we have to say that these fund members are going to be. will not be independent because we already have ineffective international supervisory boards in our state enterprises. We can see how they control it. Next thing. We've introduced a law to improve this bill so that the credit costs are allocated by state banks, and then this fund can guarantee partial compensation to single farmers. When we talk about other banks, the state does not guarantee that this bank will not be eliminated. And then what? The cost of both international institutions and the Ukrainian budget is running low. Today, my colleague Kabachenko spoke clearly about the corruption component of this fund. These warnings about the corruption of this bill have not been eliminated. It seems that he is actually a lobbyist. And today, the reporter at the Supreme Council’s rostrum did not refute any of his warnings. I'd like a reaction from our Committee on Anti-Corruption Activities. Once again, the state has every possibility today that the funds that go to support the agricultural producer will be channelled directly through the programs. And what the bill proposes is that it just disbursed the funds of both Ukrainian budget and budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u346	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Let's move on. Next amendment, 132, 145, 148 from the national deputy of Crybaby, 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u347	Thank you very much. In fact, my amendments apply again to the governing bodies of this fund. Why is this important? These amendments ask me to exclude the general meetings of the members of the fund's governing bodies, because the only governing body and owner should be the state. Why is this important? The colleagues here said that the fund shouldn't be profitable, but in fact, the substance of the bill shows that it's going to be profitable. What about the profits? Income will be distributed among the participants as dividends. And it's supposed to be good, but who's going to make the profits? And these profits are going to go directly from the agrarians, because they're guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund, and they're going to have to pay for these guarantees, and they're going to pay everyone, whether they're good creditors or not. So I demand that the only foundation of the fund be the state and the state gets both the profits and all the responsibility of the state. Unfortunately, of what it is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u348	Thank you. You're demanding a vote, aren't you? Okay. Please, I'll put the 142th Amendment of the People's Viceroy's Crying House to a vote first. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:06:26]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The following amendment is made by the 145 national deputy of Crybaby. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:06:49]] For-63 The decision is not taken. And the final in this block of 148 is the amendment of the national deputy of Crybaby. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:07:14]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 147. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u349	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Edit the next character. It is suggested that the Fund’s senior management body is the management of a five - member fund. And the entities that the Fund and the Association of Agricultural Producers, which bring together producers who own up to 500 acres [500 ha] and the Association of Banks, are delegating their representatives for a term of three years to the higher authority of the fund. How did this work come about? As we have already told you, the fund is made up of the general congregations of the participants, the council, and the management of the fund. Now, who's the senior authority in the board of directors? That's my question to the reporter. And please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u350	Please, Arthur Olegovich. Artem Olegovich. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u351	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for asking. The Board of the Fund is the governing body of the Fund. And as I have stated on several occasions that the founder of the fund is the state in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The decision to form a fund is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u352	Thank you. I'm betting on the 147th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:09:01]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 153rd Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u353	153 revisions. The law specifies the requirements for a member of the fund’s administration. That is, a member of the Fund’s government may be a person who is a citizen of Ukraine, has a permanent residence in Ukraine, has a full higher education in the field of economics, finance or law, has an apprenticeship of at least five years, has an impeccable business reputation, and has no unpunished convictions for committing beneficial criminal offences. A member of a fund’s administration cannot be a manager, a participant, or a related person of a financial institution. You've heard the line very much. Asking her to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u354	I'm betting on the 153th amendment of the Kabachenko People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[16:10:04]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 154th Kabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u355	I propose this amendment to determine the reasons for the termination of the mandate of a member of the Fund's government, the order and time limit for the appointment of a new member of the Fund's administration. It is also proposed to establish that members of the fund’s management perform their functions on the basis of public principles and to foresee that the Fund’s directorate is a management body that ensures that the Fund’s decisions are implemented and that it manages the Fund’s current activities. The fund’s directorate is formed by a fund that approves the foundation’s statutes and regulations. Edit the request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u356	I'm betting on the 154th amendment of the Kabachenko People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[16:11:07]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next. Then we have two amendments to the People's Deputy of Platcha, 164th and 167th. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u357	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, these two amendments have just been made in case the Supreme Council does not support my previous amendments and will still leave the general meeting of the fund's members as the governing body. It is suggested that the general congregations be deprived, if they are left behind, of the authority to make changes to the statute, and only to allow them to prepare proposals and to change the portion of the statute. Why is this important? Because I don't understand how else I can set up fuses to keep a piece of the state in the fund. And you didn't put these fuses up completely, so I suggest you support these two amendments. If we are left with the general congregations, they have no right but to make proposals, and the government will already accept these proposals and as a member of the fund will accept them or not accept them. This applies to statutes and statutory activities. Thank you. Please put these amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u358	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 164 amendments to the national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:12:37]] For-64 The decision is not taken. And the following amendment is made by the 167 national deputy of Crybaby. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:12:59]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 172th People's Deputy Placheva. Please, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u359	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I propose that this amendment be taken away from the right of the general assembly provided for in this bill. If you have already left such a form of organization or fund activity, then. And, first of all, we haven't explained what and how this is going to happen, so let's not at least let anyone or anyone who doesn't understand make decisions about the end of this fund. This is important because people’s credit obligations depend on it. If the general congregations decide whether to quit without government or not to agree with the government, this can affect many processes, and this will really affect those people who depend on the fund and their credit commitments. Let us not give the general assembly the right to make decisions regarding the end of the fund. This decision must be solely under the government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u360	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 172, the amendment of the national deputy of Placzkowa. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:14:24]] For-67 The decision is not taken. We've got the next one. Next, 191st, Crybaby.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u361	191st. Please, we have such an authority as a foundation board. With this amendment, I demand that all the members of this council be Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, you are actually allowing the citizens of Ukraine, international financial organizations, to be members of the Fund's council. I'm asking, first of all, the reporter to explain how this is going to happen. And secondly, I ask that we directly state in this bill that the citizens of Ukraine will only go to this council. And we will continue to talk to you about how this council will be formed, what is an employment agency or a new language in the second reading, the selection of staff. And why the state of Ukraine and the government can't determine competitive selection, as it does in other, public services, in other positions, in order to directly determine people by elevator professional and professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u362	Thank you. 191th and 202th I bet then, right? Just like we agreed with you. I'm betting on a vote of 191 amendments to the People's Deputy Placzkowa. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:16:03]] For-65 The decision is not taken. And then there's 202 amendments to the People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:16:26]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 194, Kabachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u363	For a very long time, one of the fund’s governing bodies, or council, has been dedicated. And on the way back to the text of the bill, the council appoints the government, independent, for a competition run by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, independent members of the board will be selected by an employment agency with more than a decade of international experience to look for the heads of the Finnaustrians. Again, the question is very simple and very logical: who is holding a competition for independent members of the Fund – the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or an employment agency with more than a decade of international experience of Finnish leaders? This reminds me at all of the story of the NABU bill, where international competition commissions choose a leader and approve the full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u364	I'm betting on the 194th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:17:55]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 198. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u365	This amendment is made to part two of article 9. And this right proposes that the order of the Board's membership be approved jointly by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine, whose fund will be accountable in the future. Such interaction will enhance the effectiveness of the Council’s activities. A request for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u366	I bet on the vote of 198 the amendment of the people's deputy Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:18:51]] For-78 The decision is not taken. We now have a national deputy, Kabachenko, asking for 3 minutes instead of amendments: 204, 221, 235, 241, 246, 251, 254, 258, 292, 295 and 298. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u367	The honourable colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies and, above all, the honourable Ukrainians, the amendments that I have tabled before this bill, are objective in nature and have emerged as a result of a very brief work on the anticorruption expertise that I have conducted with my colleagues on this bill. As Secretary of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, I can responsibly say that this bill is a corrupt bill, and the arguments that I made during the speeches, they have to assure you that this bill should be sent for work. The discretionary powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the time of the creation of this fund, the legal uncertainty that we face in so many articles and chapters of this bill, they say that this bill is once again corrupt. And in no way, and in no sense can we allow and release this bill from the walls of the Supreme Council to become the law of Ukraine. First. The project does not define the legal form of the fund. We don't know if it's going to be a stockholder society, or a limited liability society, or a state institution, what that is, and what kind of fund we want to see in our lives. Secondly, States and legal persons may be involved in the fund, and there are no criteria for defining which legal persons can join the fund. There are a lot of questions about fund management bodies and very many issues about the council, most of which will belong to independent representatives, independent representatives in another language, and in a simple language, they're international experts, they're international experts. We've already voted with you to this day quite a number of bills, which already have a lot of international experts who haven't offered their expertise to any state institution. Each of you knows, and many of you have asked for supervisory advice with a very simple question to be revealed to us at least their wages. We have not received an answer for today. By the way, I've registered a very simple bill, and I'm asking you to support this bill, because my bill, it will improve the work of this bill. It's the next one. Force the non-residents of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u368	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. Let's move on. Next amendment 219, national deputy Plačkov. 211th and 219th, 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u369	Thank you. And 233, if you don't mind, together.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u370	And 233 together, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u371	All my amendments relate to the exclusion of the rule of appointment by the government of state representatives to the fund's council. That is, I propose the following amendments must give the government the authority and the responsibility to identify and appoint members of the board solely on competitive grounds. And I also want to point out, maybe someone doesn't know in this room how these people are going to be defined, and who is going to pick these people into the governing body. The drafters give us this form -- the employment agency or the agency, the staff selection company, which will pay for it. I have a question. And what happened to the elevator that was when the President came and when the elevator was supposed to take the footage? Where's the footage? They're not really there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u372	As agreed, I'll put three of your amendments in order. Amendment 211, rejected by the committee. The authorship of the national deputy, Crybaby. The committee turned it down. Please Identify and Vote [[16:24:00]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 219, national deputy Plačkov. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[16:24:23]] For-83 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in this block is 233, the national deputy of Plačkov. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[16:24:44]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next amendment. Now, one second. 260th. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. Will you insist? 255th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u373	Mr. Head, please, 255 to 280 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u374	Please give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u375	I am now addressing everyone who sees and hears the meetings of the Supreme Council. And I want to tell everyone once again that Bill 3205-2 is now under consideration, which clearly provides for an apheristic, rather complex but workable scheme, such as the Ukrainian agricultural land by creating a special guarantee fund, where foreign funds will be involved, how Ukrainian agricultural land will essentially be taken to peasants, their pies, their farms and handed over to foreign companies. It's essentially selling agricultural land to aliens in a hidden way, and they're going to make big speculative gains on that. I want to talk about how this fund is going to work in this block right now. First of all, it will be completely, despite the fact that there will be partially state resources, completely delimited from government. Again, as in all other supervisory boards of our state corporations, where foreigners were established, our enterprises were cut off, and this guarantee fund would be completely out of control, from management, from any other action by the state of Ukraine. It's going to be a closed structure where there's going to be government budget and foreign funds. This structure will be managed as prescribed here, by foreign citizens, who will be taken out of the contest, and it's not really a competition at all. It's just a complicated model, like, actually, things that look like a competition are going to bring out the projected people. And this fund, it's essentially going to operate on state resources and on foreign funds to essentially take out agricultural land through guarantees that will be lent to people. I want to remind you that today agricultural land is one of the greatest true values in the world. You know, the climate problems that are on the planet today are rapidly, rapidly reducing the number of fertile lands. You know, in recent years, there has been a rapid increase in food. And the fact that the agricultural land now has all the methods, including this method of fraud through the guarantee fund, the entire agricultural Ukrainian land will essentially be out of the influence of Ukrainians, the Ukrainian state, and will be used for profits and for the benefit of international corporations, and some for other states. Dear friends, when it happened that in this Parliament, the absolute majority of the deputies do not defend the national interests of Ukraine, do not protect the Ukrainians, do not protect the lives, health, and future of our nation, but sell out, sell for nothing, like the Papuans, all the resources that are in Ukraine. And this guarantee fund is another tool to do that. In addition, this deposit guarantee fund will involve foreign funds under a closed scheme. There's no open model of how these foreign funds are going to be financially involved, how they're going to be chosen. And that's going to mean that all of this is going to be built on corruption. I can say that this guarantee fund is another corrupt food supply that will essentially perform two functions. First. This is a selection among Ukrainians of agricultural Ukrainian land. And the second. It is a major corruption that will be covered by a good purpose as if to help farmers get credit. This good purpose is deception. And behind these loud positive slogans, there is actually a thing that will act against the national interests of Ukraine. We need to return all resources to the Ukrainians and Ukraine, not take them away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u376	255th, well, all the corrections we've been talking about, Julia Volodymyr is. I'll bet you a turn. I'm betting on 255 amendments to National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:31:18]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 260 by Timoshenko. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[16:31:38]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next, 270 revisions to the authorship of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:32:02]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The following 272 revision of the authorship of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:32:23]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next, 274 amendments to the authorship of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:32:45.]] For-84 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in this block is 280 by Timoshenko. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[16:33:07]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 285. Julia Volodymyrna, will you insist? Timishenko, 285, will you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u377	Mr. Head, I suggest from 285 to 329, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u378	Give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u379	We've just been with you when we've been looking at the fatherland faction rights, and all the alterations are essentially the Fatherland faction, and we've been trying to stop the affair that this law is having. See, this law has been set apart, and it has been put before all the laws that would have been necessary to address the energy crisis in order to deal with the critical absolute health situation in connection with the COVID epidemic. There's no voting in the room. Nobody cares. It's not interesting that the National Health Service of Ukraine now does not finance the 31st package that has to do with the increase in medical wages during the COVID epidemic. So no one here raises that question. No one makes a decision to force the government to protect people from COVID. No one is now suggesting that we immediately consider the changes to the budget that we have made so that the 15 billion that they have made in the last few days will be converted to large scales to return to the COVID people's protection programme. Free drugs, free tests, access to hospitals, access to mobile teams that have to come to the sick, and payment to family doctors 300 percent -- nothing is being considered. They are now making every effort, without taking any action, to extend the Law on the Establishment of a Corrupt Aferistic Guarantee Fund, where they want to guarantee essentially partial credits, as it were for landowners, but in fact a system built by which they will take this land through fraudulent tools into peasants and through this fund to sell large sums of land, including foreign corporations. And the Ukrainians will have no land, no normal food, no nothing. They're doing it now. And now I want to get your attention, and these revisions of this apply to one more detail that I want you to know. Please tell me, why is there no clear procedure here that will be specifically guaranteed to obtain credit through this fund? There is no word in this law about what transparent selections of agrarian enterprises that will go to banks and get fund guarantees. It is said that the fund will, at its own request, be inspired to determine who, including some of the government’s money, will guarantee loans. This means that it's a multi-functional fraud fund, on the one hand it's going to be a tool for taking out peasants and stockpiling this land to sell to foreign corporations, and on the other hand it's going to be a corruption that will also allow this fund to provide guarantees already for its companies that will receive this loan, including partially guaranteed government budget in this fund. Tell me, please, how did you go into power and announce the end of the corruption era, why today you are conducting an anti-Ukrainian, anti-farming and totally corrupt bill and everybody is pushing the green button, and nobody, in fact, except the 80-90 people, the deputies in this room, the people themselves, I have rightly said who are voting for the amendments now and trying to get this bill on an apheristic fund to guarantee contributions anyway to send something to the state and give State guarantees that this fund will not work against Ukraine. I want to thank all the MPs who vote for the amendments, and that's about 90 deputies, and I hope for those.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u380	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendments you said. Initially, 285 amendments were made by National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:39:02]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The following 290 amendments by Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:39:23]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The following 299 amendments were made by National Deputy Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[16:39:44]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 301 Amendment of Tymoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[16:40:04]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 315 amendments to Timoshenko's authorship. Please identify and vote. [[16:40:25]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 319 Amendment to the Authorship of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:40:47]] For-84 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in this block is 329 by Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:41:12]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The next amendment is 296 and 312, Crybaby. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u381	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still trying to step up the influence and responsibility of the government for the Fund. Why is this important? Maybe someone didn't read because, first of all, the order of recruitment of members for the fund is completely unclear. If there are people who have worked in corporate governance, they know exactly that this is a very difficult order, just like the order of termination of membership in the fund's council is completely incomprehensible. So with this amendment, with these two amendments, I propose that this procedure of termination of membership in the fund's board be attached directly to the government. We have come to realize that the recruitment of these people will be an agency in the selection of staff for which the state will still pay the corresponding costs. But let's at least, if these people work as well as some people, we know a lot of people who work on supervisory boards, let's at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u382	Thank you. I'll put these two amendments to the vote in turn. I'm betting on a vote of 296 amendments to the People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:42:50]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. And then there's the 312 people's deputy, Crybaby. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:43:13]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Then we have three minutes of Cabachenko instead of amendments: 314, 323, 328, 332, 335, 337, 339, 342, 345, 349, 351, 380, 396 and 400. So from 314 to 400. Three minutes, Cabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u383	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm going to ask you to put each of these rights to a separate vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u384	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u385	Dear Ukrainians, just a year ago, the head of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko, all the deputies of the Fatherland faction warned you that the basic bill on the sale of Ukrainian lands was written and written exclusively under international financial organizations and transatlantic companies. The bill that we're looking at today, 3205-2, it goes on to continue this shameful tradition and it's no longer preposterous about the following: a fund is being set up to fund these very international financial institutions in order to buy up Ukrainian lands. The activity of this fund, and each of the National Deputies of Ukraine’s ninth call, should be understood, not by the country’s agrarians, but by banks with foreign capital that will be able to raise and acquire land owned by farmers of the agricultural assignment. This is the only purpose and purpose of the bill. We've already determined that this bill is corrupt. We have already determined that this bill does not suit the interests of the Ukrainians. We've already determined that the authorities of this fund, they're not Ukrainians either. You and I are setting up a fund at our own expense to fund international organizations. International organizations have their own funds to finance themselves. We ask you very much and insist that this bill be revoked or at least sent for further work. This bill does not correspond in any way to Ukrainian interests. For the purpose of ensuring the cost of loans to small and medium-sized agricultural producers, it is possible without the creation of this fund, through the adoption and implementation of the relevant budget programme. Artem Olegovich correctly noted today that there is such a line in the budget of 11 billion. So let's figure out this 11 billion. We'll use them as a target. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u386	Thank you. Mr. Vladimir, are you still insisting on voting or regretting the technique? You insist. Okay. Dear colleagues, then I place all the amendments made by the national deputy Kabachenko. Let's get started. There shall be 314 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:47:06]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Then there's 323 amendments. I'll bet you a vote. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:47:27]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next 328 amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:47:48]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 332 of the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:48:09]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The next 335 amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:48:31]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 337 amendments were rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:48:54]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 339 of the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:49:16]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The next 342 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:49:38]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next to the 345th Cabachenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:50:02]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next, 349th National Deputy Kabachenko. Please identify and vote. [[16:50:22]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next, 351st national deputy Kabachenko. Please identify and vote. [[16:50:42]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next, the 380th National Deputy Kabachenko. Please identify and vote. [[16:51:01]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Then there's 396 amendments. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:51:25]] For-80 The decision is not taken. And the extreme 400 amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:51:52]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The next thing I know, 359 Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u387	It's an amendment about who might be on the fund's board. My proposal is to make it clear that these are Ukrainian citizens as a first requirement. Thank you for taking into account the requirement that judges cannot be. In addition, the requirement clearly defines the qualifications of the candidate and, most importantly, it is set by the National Bank. As for the additional requirements, the Cabinet of Ministers sets up. So I'd like you to consider these changes that apply to one article, so who might still be a member of the fund's board. I think it's completely objective, it's understandable, and then we can at least guarantee that the fund will work for the benefit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u388	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote 359 amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:53:37]] For-58 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry, I missed the 333 to 389 revisions. The zimbaluk is five minutes, and we don't vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u389	Thank you for correcting your mistake, Mr. Chairman. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear farmers, dear peasants! This law is not about the development of Ukrainian agriculture, because it's not a secret that almost 4 million single-members, the representatives of the village, they never have accounting, and they're not even registered as agricultural producers, and that's the problem. And they won't take any credit because they don't have any accounting or credit history. This bill is not in support of young farmers. Because a young family in a rural area who wants to do farming, the aprior to the bill will not make a loan because they'll tell her to show the property half as much as it costs to borrow it. That's why this bill is about to return to the bank in part if the borrower is unable to pay it back. So this bill is really about bank support, not peasants. Next. This is where the colleagues talked about forming a fund. Dear colleagues, it seems that this bill was not written in the session hall, more faithfully, in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but outside. I'll try to explain why. The bill stipulates that candidates for independent members of the Fund will be identified by the Employment Agency with at least 10 years of international experience to find the leaders of the Finnustanas. And the authors didn't want to go to the employment centre of Ukraine, where almost 2 million Ukrainians are unemployed, yet more than 1 million are not registered in the employment center. You didn't want to write in this law to employ Ukrainians, or would you do this by law to fulfill the pre-election promise to return from abroad the Ukrainians who make money there? The bill provides that foreign workers will work in the fund. Next thing. When we talk about this bill, your honorary colleagues, how much will this fund spend on paying these international institutions to find professionals, and for these costs you could support not one farmer's family in Ukraine, we have a country. Next thing. When we talk about the efficiency of using this fund, we have to talk about how much the fund's employees will pay, how much the budget will cost the entire infrastructure. It's another dining room. I would like to point out once again that, honourable colleagues, it seems that this bill from a number of those who are making and opening up to foreigners the possibility of gathering Ukrainian land for agricultural purposes is a list of those documents so that no foreign investor can enter the Ukrainian land, but someone who will buy Ukrainian land for no price, while citizens who still live in the country would wait for them to have the power to create jobs. Under this bill, jobs will not be created for Ukrainians, foreign citizens in the foundation will work again, make millions of wages and export abroad, and Ukrainians will work abroad and send copies here because our citizens who make money abroad are a real foreign investor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u390	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Please bet on the vote number 329. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we vote. The Black Seaman wanted to say something simple. [[16:59:29]] For 283 Thank you. The next vote is 333. Decision taken. 283 votes. The factions, please. Thank you. The next 333 edits. Edit Cymbaluka. The committee's dismissed. [[16:59:59]] For 113 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u391	Thank you. Finally, do you insist, or can we move on? We can move on. Thank you. Then, please, there are two amendments to Sobolev Sergio Vladislavovich. After that, it's three minutes. And after that, it's going to be Vadim Eugeneovich Ivchenko. And let's go to the vote, colleagues. Please, I give the floor to Sobolje Sergey Vladislavovich, 473 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u392	Dear colleagues, this is a key issue. What are we talking about? I ask you to listen very carefully. The Fund, which will manage hundreds of millions of dollars, will have the right to be audited only by internal audit. Neither the Supreme Council's Auditorium, because it's budget and neither the Audit Service has access. Fear God, Mr. Head, well, tell them what to vote for. That if it's a budget, it's checked by the Court of Auditors, and if it's money that's invested, it's checked by the Audit Service. Well, do you have any idea what you're making? Well, it's just an internal audit. I ask you to support this key edit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u393	Dear colleagues, I am voting for 473 amendments to the People's Deputies of Soboljev. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:02:15]] For-123 The decision is not taken. And 474, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u394	This is a related amendment. It likewise requires that they check the funds that are there. Here the minister sits, Mr. Leschenko, is the Head of the Supreme Council, there is the head of the committee, well, please tell me, as this is the only internal audit that will be checked by hundreds of millions. Well, how could you let that happen? I'm asking you to vote for the test. If the budget is to be allocated to this Fund of the Court of Auditors and another to be checked by the Ukrainian Audit Service. State Audit Service. Well, do you have any idea what you're doing? Well, why is this fund created so they can't check it out then, hundreds of millions of dollars? I'm asking you to support this. I want to hear a comment from both the minister and the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u395	We can only have a committee. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u396	Respectable. Thanks for asking. Indeed, internal audit is indicated. But since there are not only state funds but also external partners, no one forbids independent audit by independent audit firms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u397	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 474 amendments to the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[17:04:14]] For 155 The decision is not taken. We still have, I'm sorry, 448 amendments, national. Now, one second. Yeah, come on, now, one second. I'll give it to Placzky, 448. Please. And then I'll figure it out. Please, 448, Crybaby.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u398	Thank you. Can you give me three minutes for any further corrections?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u399	Please give me 3 minutes for all your corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u400	Dear National MPs, what this bill was supposed to be about and what my amendments were about. About the fund without profit, about the fund without international financial institutions, without supervisory boards, which are incomprehensible about what they are doing, and they only get government funds. My amendments to the fund, which provides a real guarantee to the Ukrainian peasant, to the Ukrainian landowner. Unfortunately, that's not what this bill is about. And really what should we be talking about right now? We should not be talking about this lobbyist bill right now, which is actually just about how best to break up budget, non-budgetary. We should now consider, for example, a bill on the creation of a rural development fund that would really aim, for example, at the development of rural infrastructure, because after the adoption of the land market bill, unfortunately, these peasants have not received any support. We should ask the minister today, for example, when the procedures for use and assistance for farmers are adopted in existing directions, directly by order, which unfortunately is also not available today. But that's not what we're looking at. In such a hasty manner, we are considering this very bill. I'll remind you how he got in. Several times the Supreme Council Hall did not accept it in the first reading because there were questions. Why have these questions disappeared today? And I would also like to point out that before we look at this bill, it's probably important that we at least look at the know-how from the State Property Fund, which is called the Electronic Valuation Module, when taxes are sometimes higher than the real value of land. What's going on with that? There's nothing going on with that. It's all for the benefit of today's citizens or this incomprehensible know-how. That's not what we're looking at. So, colleagues, I very much ask you to pay attention to two of my last amendments and vote for them. The Fund does not have the right to demand the transfer of land directly to the mortgage, because this will end by not returning to the Ukrainian citizens after the land has been transferred. And directly participants and those who receive guarantees cannot be foreign citizens. I ask you to put two amendments to the vote: 448th, 457th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u401	Thank you. I'm betting on two amendments, as you asked, to 448th and 457th. Yeah? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. I'm betting on the 448th People's Deputies of Crybaby. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:08:22]] For-96 The decision is not taken. And the 457th National Viceroy of Crybaby. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:08:44]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next, my fellow officers, we have four blocks left. First block: 386 to 417, 5 minutes, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Then there's another block: 418 to 432, 5 minutes, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Next block: from 434 to 467 – Evtusek Sergey Mikolaiovich, 3 minutes. And the final block: from 470 to 489 minutes, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. And Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko is three minutes. Then we go to the vote. I'll give Julia Volodymyrna five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u402	Now I'd like to talk about 386 - 417. But I would like to begin by thanking all the members of the Supreme Council who voted in favour of the 329 version of the "Fatherland" party, who predicted at least one small detail that this fraud fund would not even be led by foreigners, but would at least be led by Ukrainian citizens who would at least be responsible under the Ukrainian Criminal Code. This is 329 revisions. This means that any authority that changes power will be for this person. And all the MPs who voted, they made this amendment a reality, that is, the amendment passed, and now it's in the law, at least there's not going to be any foreign leadership for this fraud fund. The second is very important. And you know what we've been trying to do right now, and that's what Sergey Sobolev was talking about, and this is what Sergey Sobolev was talking about, and there's another amendment that would say that this guarantee fund is a pure affair, that it has to be controlled, accountable, that it can be checked by the State Audit Service. Because this law provides that this corrupt fund that will take the land into our peasants, that will do something corrupt and uncontrollable, that it can only conduct internal audits. And internal audit means by its own strength, by its employees. It's called the thing inside. So, twice, Sergey Sobolev had a copy of the Fatherland faction, so that this fund would be checked by the State Auditor's Office. And twice the Supreme Council failed this amendment. 155 deputies voted in favour of this structure, which will partly have state funds in its statutory capital, the State budget to be controlled by the State and all other deputies to decide that this corruption must be uncontrollable. Why am I speaking so much about this example? Because this is an example of what is being done in the hall today. This example of how corruption is now approved by laws, as the dehumanization of peasants is now approved by law. And the green buttons that will push for this will unfortunately show the majority in Parliament, which, along with the ruling team, will combine the national interests of Ukraine and sell state resources, the natural resources of our state. I also want to say that absolutely nothing in this law is meant to be seen: and who will be guaranteed these loans, who specifically, what legal persons will receive such a guarantee from the State. And so we ask that we vote in favour of these amendments to this block so that we can also conduct market procedures transparent, clear, clear. In order to ensure that such guarantees are issued to all who turn, not selectively, to those who turn away. I ask these amendments to vote and because we, again and again, insist that this fund cannot be joined by foreign international funds and then they cannot take as collateral our country of Ukraine because it is contrary to the Constitution. If you are already creating such a fund, create it transparently, under control fully, open up to the State, create a completely 100% foundation that belongs to the State, and guarantee it only to farmers, but not to anyone. And this law all those who vote are party to the great million-dollar, hundred-million-dollar corruption that will take place in our villages. And when you see them looking at how to share dividends, when you press a button, remember that this money is taken from the poorest peasants and you do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u403	Please, I'll bet you a vote. Amendment 386 of Tymoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:15:01]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The next 388th author, Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:15:21]] For-76 The decision is not taken. The 393rd authorship of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:15:42]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The next 397th author, Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[17:16:03]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next 401 by Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[17:16:24]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next, 413 by Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[17:16:44]] For-68 The decision is not taken. And the last in this block of 417 by Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. [[17:17:05]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next, please ask Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko for three minutes instead of the rest of his rights. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u404	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, first of all, wanted to thank you, you have supported at least one of the hundreds proposed by the Fatherland. At last someone in the hall began to include common sense, and you really saw what it was. What's going on is going to happen to the management of this fund, what is a supervisory board, and why an independent person cannot be the head of a supervisory board in a fund that is created by law and actually by government funds that will be subordinated to the National Bank of Ukraine. This time. Colleagues, others. So that you and I might get into the bill and realize clearly that this bill will not save small businesses, it will not save family farms against those who today can get cheap funding from abroad. Colleagues, this bill is going to cut down on any country's policies that should think, first of all, for a small, small farmer who has to think about the development of rural areas that have to think about employment and job creation. This bill, exactly, colleagues, will not be able to be competitive during that "reform" (in paws) you called land, those people who want to do family farming. This bill, colleagues, will drive these little and tiny ones off the ground. And this land is going to be overrun by large agricultural holdings, as it already is. This bill will not allow colleagues to start a small enterprise. This bill will prevent them from becoming cooperatives. Because you're giving it all to the banks by this bill. And the banks are currently lending only because of the mortgage, because of their coefficients of 0.5, 0.3 depending on what you're going to impose. So, colleagues, the wrong, wrong, completely agricultural policy, which is now going and actually produced on an agrarian committee. I think I need to change, I need to change my accent. And we need to make sure that the priority of the state is given to those who actually want to create an enterprise and who want to cultivate their own land. And by no means do we give priority to those who rent it, especially those who have cheap expenses. And this profit then sits, believe me, not in Ukraine. That's why it's wrong. And I'm going to vote, and Fatherland is against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u405	Thank you. Please, another block, second block. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, correction from 418 to 432. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u406	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that we are in this room, the Ukrainian people's deputies, we cannot be on different sides of the barricade when it comes to addressing strategic issues for Ukraine when it comes to protecting the proliferation of Ukraine's national interests. And I'm very surprised that right now in this water division, you know, the line is between those MPs that today, and this is both the majority faction and the factions of the opposition, are standing in positions of national interest, but the absolute majority consciously, understanding why they are pushing the buttons, is standing on the side of the barricade that is destroying the country that is taking away the last country that we have, which is taking away the country's chances of building. Because in the Ukrainian nation, the agricultural land, and read, the income that this land generates, take food that is good for both the internal market and the external market, and the right to profit from it, can only those who have deliberately gone against Ukraine. I have no doubt that all of this will be corrected when the authorities change. But the loss of five years, God forbid, can be less, the loss of opportunities and the loss of those people who are travelling from Ukraine today, realizing that a state under new power is working against people, against all spheres of life, from social policy and the agricultural sector to small businesses, FOPs and all the other people who expect the State to contribute to life and development. I can tell you what agrarian politics would look like today. What it looks like in many of the natural, normal, civilized countries of the world. If you take the entire agricultural fertile land of the world and divide it into the number of enterprises that do farming in the world, you'll see that on average there are 3 hectares per farm. What does this talk about? That all countries are moving in the way of family farming. The United Nations has made a special decision and has made a decade now, which we are living in, the Decade of Family Farming. Everything that is being done in the agricultural sector today is being done against the family farming that is holding villages, these family farms that are essentially holding the culture, the spirituality of Ukraine in the deep, where we grow bread. Today, a land in the agricultural sector is stifling the last farms and preventing them from developing new ones. And even now, when they're selling land, they're selling not to farmers with the support of the state, but they're selling just to fictitious people, as well as to the people who use large and domestics today, and the Western corporations are agrarians to clean up the land. Too bad there is such a policy today. And even the minister of agrarian politics, who also has thousands of hectares of land owned by his family, has also become, in fact, on this line of land sales and the creation of large agroholdings and destroys this farming, and we need farmers first. In other lands, farming as a child is cultivated, put on feet, and give her life. And we had to do the same thing, we had to have all the government institutions work to make every farm choke, state subsidies, subsidies, the tax system, interest-free loans, that's what we had to do. It was necessary to create a state insurance company to prevent people from taking land hostage because they no longer had anything to pay back, but to insure these loans and allow them to grow, to develop, and not to lose in fraud schemes, such as this Deposit Guarantee Fund, the last piece of their land. I very much ask you, let us, while there is a little bit of intelligence in this Parliament, choose the right strategy for development.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u407	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, may I not put these amendments to the vote if I may? Thank you. Next, Eutuszek, three minutes. Sergei Mikolaiovich, please. Three minutes, Eutusek, four minutes later, Julia Volodymyrna. Five minutes, Julia Volodymyrna. And then two more minutes is the Ironman, and we're going to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u408	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, why I would like to briefly take a tour into recent history quite fresh when we adopted in this session hall the Ukrainian law on the sale of agricultural land. The answer is very simple. Because this law, which is now being considered in the session room, is a direct satellite of this law, which has allowed for the sale of agricultural land, the possibility of selling chaoticly, uncontrollablely, with the involvement of not only foreign capitals, but also the possibility of gathering our land for agricultural purposes by foreigners. It's very dangerous. And it is Timoshenko, the leader of the Fatherland, who has just spoken about food security, who says that every country in Europe is now looking after its people, thinking about how to provide food security for its own citizens. Because "Paternity" clearly understands that it's not the land that needs to be traded, but it's the food that this country's growing. It's Fatherland who's talking about supporting a small and medium-sized farm. And this is quite different, colleagues, the philosophy of farming. That's why the Fatherland faction has prepared a lot of serious amendments. But why? Because we don't want foreigners in these supervisory boards, even in these funds. And thank God that my colleague's correction to the Tsimbaluk faction went through, where there will be only Ukraine's oversight councils, thanks to God. But there were foreigners in the starting position. Thus, when we adopted the Land Market and Sales Act, we called upon and offered to hold an all - Ukrainian referendum. What happened in power? The authorities have expressly forbidden us to do so. Eleven thousand Ukrainian citizens gathered, formed an initiative group. With these documents, the Fatherland faction, along with the Ukrainians, went to the CBC and received, unfortunately, a disgraceful answer. The Ukrainians and I were forbidden to ask the owner whether property of the Ukrainian people could be sold or not. Perhaps these decisions will take place at the height of the Rules at night through the session hall. That's why, honourable colleagues, the Fatherland faction, the entire team calls for a veto when the bill is passed in the session room. If not, we reserve the right to be the subject of a hearing before the Constitutional Court. We and the Ukrainians will win justice, we will win.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u409	The word is given on the final block of Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko for 5 minutes. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u410	Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps for those who don't read the experience of European countries, how to develop their agricultural sector, I'll just tell you how one of France's most successful countries does it. It has a government agency called SAFER, where there is a state and where there are associations of exclusively farmers in France. And when any piece of land is released in France agriculturalally, the first place this land gets to is this government agency SAFER, where the participants in the decision-making are the farmers' associations of France. And when they make decisions, the land of this, the piece that has been released, is first leased to the farm for 7-9 years. If, within 7 to 9 years, farming has demonstrated that it can effectively process this land, only then is it granted the right to buy this land for this farm and no one, except farmers, can land in France. The second thing France does is essentially, like Italy, it doesn't allow agrarian raw materials to be exported from the country. And agroholdings, large agrarian enterprises, are doing raw materials exports, and then someone on our raw materials and on our land is making hundreds, hundreds and hundreds of billions of profits. And that's why France, Italy, they're making the most of their territory of agrarian raw materials into ready-made food. Why don't we? And why do we today get raw materials from around 20 billion euros to about 20 billion euros, and in fact, if we recycle, we could get from exports to 200 billion euros. What are we doing with our country? And now the land sale law, the amendments to the Earth Code, which allows both forests and lakes and rivers, I don't know what else is there, the reserves are natural, and today's law on the so-called guarantee fund, which is a hidden model of land-removal -- it all forms a completely different strategy in the agricultural sector. This strategy is when the big world and Ukrainian agrarian corporations will have hundreds of thousands of hectares of land in their possession and there will be no farmers in Ukraine at all. And that will mean that we have a step by step that the villages will disappear, that we will not affect our national food security, that our food will no longer be our national acquisition, and we will not control their quality. And that's going to mean, like Madagascar, which went the last way. In Madagascar, there was no land left entirely, and the corporations that worked there left the land incinerated. And today, Madagascar, which has the largest area of fertile land, has almost all its territory, albeit a small country, but today they have the world’s greatest famine. What are you doing with Ukraine? And that's why I'm addressing every deputy in this room right now. You have the right to choose, you have the right to vote as you have to do for the state. You took an oath, and so I urge you not to vote in favour of this law, not to give a vote, not even to send for a second read. To look at the radically agrarian policy of the state and to make agriculture the foundation of agrarian policy of the state and the foundation of national security, to give millions of jobs to Ukraine. That's what I call it. And we'll go, if you vote, with this to the Constitutional Court, and sooner or later we'll stop this vachanal in our state. But I'm talking to the Ukrainians. Do not give more authority to those who vote for the sale of agricultural land for the destruction of our land and agriculture, and vote against Ukraine. I think Ukraine can get down on its knees without a gang.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u411	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two more minutes, the Ironborn, and then we vote in favour of the bill. People's deputies please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u412	Dear colleagues, I have quite a number of rights. But I see that the unrestrained desire to vote in favour of this law among fellow members of the national MPs, I will not detain you. So I'm not going to put any of my rights to the vote or to the vote. I'll just say one thing. This is the tenth anniversary and hopefully the final bill of land reform. In my personal opinion, the only reform voted in this room and launched is land reform. That's what's gonna stay with us for tens of years. This is what has really done the level of rights for our citizens -- to run their own land equally. And I'm proud to vote for land reform and for all the laws that were in this package. It's the last law. Many of my fellow deputies, the Voice factions, are co-authors of this law. And, of course, we will support it in our second reading. I hope that not only land reform will come. The reform that this Parliament is implementing. But congratulations to us that we are finishing this block, and our cadence has done everything to make the earth market run, and hopefully it will be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u413	Thank you. And who else? Nina Petrovna Yuzanin wants to make one correction for confirmation. So we must now vote on this amendment, and then we will vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please take your seats. Nina Petrovna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u414	Dear colleagues, 493 revisions. I'm asking you to note that this is no longer in the first draft of the law you're trying to bypass the procedures of national regulatory policy in the field of economic activity. These procedures have been in place since 2003. Yes, in fact, we need to publish, discuss, determine the impact on business, which. set which. and these procedures establish a certain balance. You can't bypass these procedures. You propose that the draft law abolish all these procedures and that the regulations be drafted and entered into force immediately. It can't be, don't abuse, please, it protects you, too. Since legal procedures can turn the law into a completely different direction, do not risk these initiatives on your own. Please support. It's not definitive for you, but it's definitely more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-04-m0.u415	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 493 amendments, are counted by committee. Nina Petrovna is asking for confirmation. I'll put this amendment to the vote, please. [[17:37:25]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we've passed the whole bill. I now propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the partial guarantee fund for agricultural loans (project registration number 3205-2). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:38:07]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Ladies and gentlemen, given that we have already passed a second reading and, as a whole, a bill (registration number 5460) on increasing the costs of purchasing, designing and installing oxygen stations, the need for an extraordinary plenary meeting to address this issue has failed. Therefore, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. There'll be no backup. Thank you.
