ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. I remind you that registration takes place by pressing the "Z" button on the green or the first one on the left. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:02:15]] There are 223 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, there's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance, Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u2	On September 9, 1944, a tragic history of the Ukrainian people began: the deportation of more than 700,000 Ukrainians to Zakersonj (Lemkish, Nadsenj, Holmish, Lubavian, South Podlach, Western Battleship). The main reason for the deportation of 700,000 Ukrainians was that they were Ukrainians. The deportation lasted from 1944 to 1951. During the first wave of 1944-1946, more than 482,000 Ukrainians were deported from Zakersonn territory in the then USR. The second step is a sad operation called Vistula, when 150,000 Ukrainians were deported from the territory primarily of Lemkowščina to the northwest of Poland. The third stage is the so-called exchange of areas in Western Boyakishte, which resulted in the removal of 33,000 people from their homes. Forced, rather, by the use of terror, repression, confiscation of property, restrictions on political, social, economic, cultural and human rights. The main thing is the limited right to the truth, because over 60 years ago it was forbidden to say that you were deported, that you were Ukrainian. Today, the Supreme Council has two deportation bills signed by all but one factions, the Fifth Column. I thank the factions of "Trust" and "For the Future," who have now given this break, who are also signatories to these bills. And if it's so scary to even bring to the committee a bill, where the name of the opposition MP is first, I'm asking you to put a bill into the session room this week, where the name of the majority MP is first. Because the deported and their descendants are crying out for justice. Worse still, unpunished crime repeats itself. Just 70 years after the deportation began, Moscow's castles covered Donetschina and Luganshina, where the first deportations of 1944-1946 were abandoned. And these people, helping paratroopers defend the Lugani airport, lost their home again. The second Sunday of September, by decree and decree, was set up as the Day of Remembrance of the Deported Zacherson. I'm asking all my colleagues, I'm asking everyone who's worried this Sunday to come to the memorials and put flowers. And you, colleagues, are to include in the agenda and vote in the first reading a bill that recognizes the deportation of the Zakerson Ukrainians as a crime. And so I ask that we all rise now to honor the memory of more than 700,000 Zakersonnen Ukrainians. They and their offspring are crying out for justice. Ukraine must protect them. Thank you. We remember. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u3	There was another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to talk to you about a modern genocide that is deliberately done with regard to the Ukrainian nation. And I can say that somehow it's going through all the political corridors, and in fact, in this autumn, you know what's going on and what's going on. First of all, if you're not aware, I'll tell you that in the last year, tariffs were formed in such a way that the greenhouse gas cost 5 dollars. And we have debt on gas, because people couldn't pay it, they just made tens of billions of dollars. It's a complete collapse, it's a total insolvency. This year, out of 5 bracelets, 42 dollars is raised by 7 dollars, almost one and a half times, and subsidies are reduced. If 7 million farms had received subsidies before, now only 2.5 million farms. This means that people have taken subsidies, and the heat will cost one and a half times the cost. It's not just the destruction of Ukrainians -- it's actually leading them to a state where they can't feed their children, and it's being ignored. In addition, the collapse in the energy field is that we have to have 3.5 million tons of coal in storage by the heating season, now there are just over 700,000. I want to ask you who's responsible for this. But they also divided the volume of gas that they sell into two parts: B1 is for some part of the population that's going to be a little bit less than 8 bracelets, and B2 is going to be the volume that goes, including, for part of the budget area, today, 24 bracelets per month for gas, for heat. I want to ask, what do we do with the country, and what do we do with people? So our team requires the immediate adoption of Bill 4680, which all faction leaders signed -- Ukrainian gas to the population. The other one. To adopt that law that was registered the day before yesterday, more than a billion dollars from that loan that we got from the IMF, give it to subsidies and budget subsidies. There was an Association of Cities yesterday, and they're going to go to the President with a huge statement that cities are being forced to keep tariffs at the cost of extra budget costs, and the local budgets aren't going to pull it. We demand that tomorrow the Prime Minister of Ukraine report from the rostrum, answering questions about what is happening to the genocide of Ukrainians on tariffs. So that we can listen to the government, not the foreign minister, on the visits that have already been discussed. I ask you to act immediately, or it beats everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u5	The application for a break with a replacement for the performance is Heratchenko. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! After the MRI from CNN about the Wagner case, Banka said that CNN was lying. Well, it's obvious that the truth is only told by the hazelnuts of the oligarchic TV channels that tell the country and the world about the greatest leader of the modern world who betrayed the special operation of our special services that was to enter the gold fund of the Ukrainian Special Forces. I'm going to remind you that the serial killers involved in the MH17 bombing, the Donbass killings and Syria, were essentially lured into a unique special operation that was conducted in Ukrainian intelligence with our NATO partners and crashed at the last minute. Javko was also given on an oligarchic television channel, where he admitted that he was the one who told the truth about this special operation by Lukashenko tyre Putin. If CNN is not telling the truth, why isn't the Bank suing? I want to remind you that when the Air Force gave false information about the meeting of Dustenka and Trump, Poshenko won the Air Force in court and transferred the money to the Return to the Living Foundation for the rehabilitation of our military. But another interesting nuance. When Bankova says that CNN is spreading lies and lies and accusing her of cooperating with the FSB, I'll remind you that Greensky was on the front line with this journalist SNN on the first line of collision. So it turns out Zelensky took the FSB agents to the first line of collision to get them to download information about our military? It doesn't match. You know, I was a journalist, and I got out of journalism when there were two sentences coming from the Bank: the first topic is important and relevant, there was a good talk about Banking, and the second one is being ignored, that is to say, silent about opposition. So now the dungeons are back. I watched yesterday's news: there's no information on the SNN investigation. I would like to appeal to journalists: You may love or dislike Dusty or Zelensky, but you are obliged to respect the Ukrainian army, which guarantees our independence and your right to work in an independent country. And today, when you betrayed the Ukrainian army in the Bank, as journalists, you have no right to silence this betrayal. We're waiting for an investigation like Bellingcat, and I hope that his Ukrainian media will notice. We know that for $200 you can download traffic information about "servicing." It's interesting how much she paid Bankow to pay for the oligarchic channels today so that they don't notice the betrayal of the Ukrainian army. But "European Solidarity" and all the people who, first and foremost, do not fight Greens, but defend the right of the Ukrainian army to defend the Ukrainian country, Ukraine and our independence, will protect our special forces today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u7	So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Law on Alternative Fuels for the Development of Biomethane Production (registration number 5464). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:13:53]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, Zupánin Andri Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u8	And from the committee and from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u9	Give me four minutes, please. And from the committee and from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u10	Good morning, honourable chairman, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Law on Alternative Fuels for the Development of Biomethane Production in Ukraine (registered under number 5464) (since May 5, 2021). As I spoke three months ago from this rostrum, I had already explained what biomethane is and what the advantages of its production in Ukraine are. Now I'm going to pause briefly on a few key aspects. First, biomethane is a purified biogas to which methane is added and which, as a result, is a natural substitute for natural gas. The potential for biomethane is crazy. First of all, it's exports as a natural gas substitute. Secondly, in public transport, it can significantly reduce air pollution in large cities. And thirdly, it can also be used in both water and rail transport. There are currently no more industrial examples of biomethane production in Ukraine. All because our legislation lacks the concept of "biomethane" in general and there are no certain fundamental positions necessary for this resource to start working in Ukraine. The greatest potential of biomethane is seen in its exports to European countries. Today, the cost of producing biomethane ranges from $300 to $900, while selling it to European countries can be much more expensive because Europe declares the transition to the so-called Green Agreement, the implementation of the Agreement, and the refusal of fossil fuels, including natural gas. Biomethane will allow you to load Ukrainian GTS and this is especially relevant in the context of North Stream-2. Biomethane will allow Ukraine to increase its export potential and reduce Ukraine’s negative trade balance. Biomethane will also contribute to technology, investment in technology, and job creation. The purpose of the bill that we are now considering is. The first is to ensure that clean biogas can be verified, i.e. biomethane, whose physical and technical characteristics are designed to meet the requirements of regulatory acts on natural gas. The second is the provision of guarantees of origin for the volume of such gas, or biomethane. And the third is the formation of a biomethane registry. Literally a month ago, my committee colleagues and I traveled to Poland to the country's largest gas conference, and in all of its first mouth, one word is biomethane. We think there might be a future behind the biomethane. What's interesting is that our bill does not provide for any benefits, does not provide for green tariffs, does not provide for changes to the Tax Code or the Customs Code to start producing biomethane in Ukraine. It's literally made up of two pages of text, and it's very simple. However, the result may be a few billion dollars of investment within the country, as well as billions of potentially earned funds through the sale of this resource abroad. The main scientific and expert office (a finding of June 14, 2021) generally shares the argument of the legal entities on the need to use biomethane as a biogas. At the same time, she made separate comments and suggestions to the draft law that we're going to include. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill (registration number 5464) as a basis. I ask my colleagues to support the committee's decision to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, speaking from MP factions and groups. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u12	Pass it on to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u13	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u14	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, we certainly understand that the production of biomethane is a major part of the world's initiative to achieve climate neutrality and to develop clean energy. These are the goals of the world today, and these are the same goals that Ukraine should want. Moreover, Ukraine has declared its acceptance of the Green Course, that we will move in that direction. That is certainly why we should work and support initiatives, as proposed today in the House of Parliament. In particular, Ukraine, as a large agricultural producer and a country with energy and energy problems, has a threefold interest in developing such new initiatives. In Ukraine there is a great potential for biomethane development. According to experts, Ukraine can increase its potential to 8 billion cubic meters per year and this will make Ukraine visible on the world stage in this direction. In particular, it is worth noting that the production of biomethane, the support of biomethane production, allows the creation of new steel business models and the reduction of discards throughout the manufacturing chain. Again, these are the goals Ukraine has set for itself. In addition, we now know that international partners, investors, are interested in developing the production of biomethane in Ukraine. Thus, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development stated that they were interested in investing more than $50 million in loans for such programs. So this bill is just as interesting to invest in Ukrainian green energy. So we will support this and look forward to a quick second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u15	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u17	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u18	Good afternoon. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. We've really considered on the committee this bill and, you know, all the laws that support the energy security of the state, whether it's biomethane, or bioethanol, all that will allow you to produce energy for your own production, "European solidarity" will support it. And in the first reading, we will also vote in favour of this law. But we know very well that there is always such that a good initiative can eventually turn into a so-called steering wheel. So for the second reading, we're going to demand that we clean up so that the bill doesn't turn into a trade guarantee of the origin of biomethane with the possibility of confirming the consumer of "green" methane by issuing a certificate of origin. Hopefully, by the second reading, it'll be taken care of. Or we can make amendments so that those certificates, those guarantees, aren't really designed for this kind of trade. And in the first reading, "European Solidarity" votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u19	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mamyan Suto Choloevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u20	Please pass the word to the Shufresche.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u21	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, an alternative is needed, especially when it comes to fuel and energy. But let's first figure out what we already have. We are now part of the four countries of Europe that have the capacity to provide gas for themselves. That is: Russia, Norway, Romania and Ukraine In these countries, there is no gas market as such because they do not need it. The gas market that we're being told about is working in countries that don't have their own gas, their own gas. Today, to provide for our citizens, it takes 14.2 billion cubic metres of gas, including thermal utility companies. They're taking state-owned enterprises after the loss of power of Black Seafoot, 14.3 billion. So today, Ukrainians can and have the right to receive domestic gas, as was the case with the government, I will be objective, Timoshenko, and as was the case with the government, where Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko was responsible for this direction. Recently, NAC Naftogazu's leadership has already said that the commercial cost of Ukrainian gas is 2 000 400 dollars, that's the cost of production along with all the ingredients. The question is, why do Ukrainians actually pay a $250-300 tax on gas, what do they deserve? Because the gas belongs to the Ukrainian people, which pays four times for it today, and tomorrow, five or six times. Therefore, we demand that Ukrainian gas be given to the Ukrainian people and cut tariffs three times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u23	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u24	Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there's a good folk expression that sounds like, "good thinking comes after." The issue of the country's energy security was raised twice by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, when she was Prime Minister, and both times there was a super-powerful lobby, which was here at the time, the oil and gas lobby of RosUkr Energo. Everyone remembers well, and so on and so forth. If they listened and implemented bioenergy, biogas, bioethanol, biodiesel, Ukraine would forget about energy dependence. It finally came when the price of gas in Europe today was $670 per thousand cubes, and when we realized it was going to be today, because we're the last ones on this pipe, it's going to be our poor people, it's going to be our miserable economy. We talked about alternative sources. Biogas, biomethane -- 11 billion -- this number is not called, I'll call it, then it's calculated, 11 billion cubes can only be given to agriculture. Now it's going into the atmosphere and it's the main catalyst for warming on the planet, not the CO2, which is methane. Friends, imagine what opportunities are opening up to Ukraine. It could have been introduced earlier, it would have been much easier already. But let us at least be late, perhaps late, but as they say, we will not lose this opportunity. This is the production of free gas in agriculture, the processing industry, animal production, and other sources. We're voting now and we're going to support this bill. And a reduced procedure for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u25	Thank you. Keith Andrey Bogdanovich. After that, I see, the Speedboat. And then we go to the vote. Two speeches and we go to the vote. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Andrew Keith, Stryshtyn, Jewish, trust MP. In fact, we are looking at a very simple, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a very important bill that gives a serious impetus to the development of the whole field of alternative energy in Ukraine. The potential production of biomethane in Ukraine could be nearly 17 billion cubic meters, which would actually give us a chance to seriously fill our pipe, where we'll have problems once the North Stream 2 opens. And that's why I think that a serious alternative for Ukraine to replace Russian gas that's going to be derived from North Stream 2 can be methane that's produced in Ukraine, which has huge added value. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u27	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP will definitely support this initiative in the first reading, because it is really very good and is called upon to ensure the country's energy independence. Moreover, it is ecological and is concerned about the environment. Therefore, the initiative must be supported. What's more, it's very nice that we complement alternative fuels with the notion of biomethane, we settle the creation and functioning of a biomethane registry, which provides for the formation of guarantees of the origin of biomethane that will allow the control of the quality of biomethane in the market. Therefore, we must support the bill. And to the second reading, we're going to work on a little bit of it so that it doesn't send basic concepts to regulatory acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u29	Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Alternative Fuels for the Development of Biomethane Production (Registration No. 5464). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:29:52]] For-300 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Criminal Statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (registration number 5121). No discussion. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Amendment Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] The chairman of the committee approached and said that all the factions, colleagues, had passed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Mikhailovich, give objective information next time, please. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:30:50]] For 236 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavluk Maksim Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Criminal Statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (registration number 5121, of February 19, 2021). The main purpose of the bill is to introduce the rules of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute on such a type of encouragement as the previously imposed disciplinary assembly, the legislative regulation of the mechanism for the removal of previously imposed discipline, the granting of rights to such military officers as the commander of the Corps, the commander of the operational command, the commander of the species, the individual type of military (force) forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and the use of disciplinary charges against military personnel subordinated to them. In addition to settling the issue of whether to merge or disengage the mandatory conditions with the establishment or failure of one of them, the military commander, who has been subjected to discipline in the form of a warning of partial service, will be able to decide whether to move the military officer to a lower position or to release him from military service. The proposed changes to the Ukrainian Armed Forces’ Disciplinary Statute will not require additional costs from government and local budgets. Dear colleagues, please support this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u31	The head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Alexander Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u32	The Honourable Chairman, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on June 9, 2021, reviewed the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Criminal Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Criminal Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration No. 5121). The purpose of the bill is to restore the rules of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute on such encouragement as the removal of the previously imposed discipline, the legislative regulation of the mechanism. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the draft law of Ukraine has no budgetary impact. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union has recognised the provisions of the bill as being governed by the national legislation of the member countries of the European Union and not subject to the international legal obligations of Ukraine in the field of European integration. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defence fully supports the bill. The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee adopted decisions to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a review of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Criminal Statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (registration number 5121), on the first reading, to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u33	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u34	Please give the floor to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u35	Zabrodsky Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, a very constructive and very needed law, and more specifically, a clarification that had long been needed. We hope that in the course of the work of the working group on the new edition of the general statutes for the Armed Forces, all these shortcomings will also be taken into account. But right now, in order for the Armed Forces to function and live properly, I suggest we uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u37	Thank you. Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Aresonkov Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u39	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! The bill is, of course, important in terms of the subject it refers to. Because the issues related to the functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the creation of conditions for our military responsibilities in the protection of the state, the security of citizens, are certainly priority and important. And the "Trust" MP group stresses that it is from this point of view that the bill should be supported. Of course, it is as if such a narrow segment, as far as the disciplinary charter is concerned, is being regulated. But I would like to pay attention to the following. In recent times, I don't think we have much on our hands to consider legislation that deals with the functioning of the Ukrainian army. But tell me, has it become less annoying? Today, many talk about the deterioration in the food supply of our military personnel. There are rumours that the issue of modern weapons, the execution of orders, and so on should be considered carefully. There are many issues that need to be resolved today because the Ukrainian army must be modern and have all the conditions, I reiterate, to carry out its professional duties. That's why it seems to us that we need to listen to the situation of the Ministry of Defence at the "hour of questioning" and develop a set of measures that we, MPs, need to do to help Ukrainian military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u41	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u43	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u44	Dear Ukrainians, people say that if a person is talented, he is talented in everything. What about a talented group of people? What if it's a whole faction? What if this whole faction represents the entire President and all the power in this state? Imagine how good they could do for this country if they knew that they wanted to reform or, in other words, were competent. On October 7th, 19th, in this room, the majority amended the U.S.S.S. disciplinary statute by cancelling such disciplinary incentives as the return of a person to office or some other convocation if a military officer did something. Here we go, here we go. And everyone thought, maybe so deep down the boys and girls, they got into the subject, they probably went through the war, someone served, someone continued to be a reserve officer, and they didn't. And it's a good thing that this slap was made only in this law because it wasn't removed from Appendix 3 of this same disciplinary statute, and so far it's not working in the army. I know what I'm talking about, because I've seen these orders for myself. This rule is still in the National Police Statute, and it still works in the Civil Protection Service Statute, in the internal military. But these geniuses took it and took it off. Society, you can't vote for it on the basis and in general, just on the basis of it, because even now, by returning this norm, they're not allowing a person who's been reduced in office to return to that position, so that's not really encouraging anymore. And you want to do something better, go to the reserve and conduct your parliamentary vacations, like me and Samantha Bobrowski, on the real parts of the military, then you won't be offering this stupid thing to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u45	Roman Vasilovich Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! A really important bill, and the Voice faction, always supports all the important bills, the normal ones, that relate directly to the protection of our military and our Armed Forces. But what I'm saying in the agreement is that we have a more complex problem than just adopting a single bill. We need to solve the issues with all the problems we are currently facing at the Ministry of Defence. For the second year in a row, we have broken down the state defense order. What does that mean? This means that soldiers who are on the advance do not receive the equipment do not receive the weapons needed to protect our nation. And what's important is that we don't do anything as a parliament. We have a person who is personally responsible for this. That's why I'm turning to the President's Office, to us, honourable colleagues, because we need to make this decision, change the Secretary of Defense, and finally start working for our Armed Forces. Not change one paragraph and one bill, but a comprehensive, strategic change in our entire military policy. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u47	Please, who else is planning on speaking? I see Mother Grigory Mikolayovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! Well, I'm talking to the Ukrainian people more because there's little for the national MPs in the room to do with this attitude and listening to the drafters of the bill and everything else. I want to point out that I would like to hear from the rostrum that they actually adopted the bill and missed a little bit in the turbines and that the authorities admit some mistakes and want to correct them. This bill, it says a very simple thing -- that it is necessary to apply the term instead of six months for three months, and to apply such an encouragement, note this encouragement -- to remove the previously imposed contraction. But procedurally in the statute, in fact, there's no way that this procedure is going to look. An incentive order, a test as an incentive process.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u49	Let's go to the vote. I'll bet on it. The committee recommends the basis as a whole. Is there no objection? There's a denial. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Criminal Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration No. 5121). Ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:44:01]] For 310 Decision taken. They deny the whole thing. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application to convicted persons and persons who are under watch of compulsory feeding (registration No. 4323). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:44:39]] For 243 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u50	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a bill that is foreseen by the Supreme Council's legislative work plan under paragraph 376. The essence of this bill is our legal obligations to the Council of Europe, because it is against Ukraine the decision of the European Court of Human Rights "Neumerzicki v Ukraine". In accordance with this decision, we are obliged to provide in our legislation a procedure for the compulsory feeding of those who are kept in custody and convicted. Because we don't have a proper procedure in law right now, a humane procedure, if a person for one reason or another refuses to take food. And what does this bill predict? The first point is that only if there is a risk of death can this procedure be applied. The second is that the doctor's conclusion should be correct. The third is to be accompanied by a doctor of this procedure. The fourth is that there must be a court decision to initiate this procedure. And the important elements of this procedure are that without a court decision it is prohibited to apply this procedure. And it is important that there will also be a report by the prosecutor, as well as by the Human Rights Council, on every fact that this procedure is being applied. On the basis of this law, if approved, a specific procedure will be developed in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers, which will provide for specific medical measures regarding the humane application of the feeding procedure. So I urge and ask you to support this bill and to fulfil one of our obligations to the European Court of Human Rights, which comes out of the decision "Neumerzicki v. Ukraine". Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u51	The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Fries Igor Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u52	Congratulations, fellows! For your consideration, bill 4323 on forced feeding is proposed. By order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 November 2020, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on 1 April 2021 (Protocol No. 51) the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the application of compulsory feeding to convicted persons and persons in custody (Registration No. 4323) (since 5 November 20). As the representative of the Ministry of Justice has just informed us, for what this bill is necessary, solely for the purpose of fulfilling certain obligations that Ukraine has undertaken with regard to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (since the 1950s). On the basis of this, the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the application of measures of forced feeding to convicted persons and persons in custody (register No. 4323) (since 5 November 2020) (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) on the basis of the first reading to be considered as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u53	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Lubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u55	Excuse me, who? Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u56	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The MP's Party for the Future will vote and support this bill, although there are different points of view among our colleagues. Some people don't think it's necessary to do that, that it's still a choice, that it's a personal choice, whether it's hungry or not. But if we're law-abiding, then the position of the Ministry and the committee of profile, and our committee dealing with human rights, is based on the fact that there is a decision of the European Court of Human Rights "Neumercial Against Ukraine", where clearly the ECHR came out that the State must preserve human life and that's the main thing. And that forced feeding of human beings is not torture, is what the state must do, save lives, and that is the main thing. And really, in order to apply this method of feeding, I want to make it clear to everyone that, first of all, it takes a person to really starve for a long time and to put his life at risk. It takes a court order on the basis of a doctor’s conclusion that a person can actually die. Next, as soon as this procedure begins, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights is automatically reported, and if such a person is a minor, the appropriate body is responsible. So believe me, from a legal point of view, Ukraine is obliged to do so. We, as the Ukrainian Parliament, are now obliged to make changes to current legislation precisely because if we do not do so, the European Court of Human Rights will require us to do so and the citizens of Ukraine will also turn to and defend their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u57	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! Of course, there is no doubt that our Ukrainian legislation should be as integrated as possible into European legislation. And in this context, my previous colleague, who referred to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, and I can add that this story is related to the year 2005 when the Istanbul Convention was adopted, and then a number of decisions of European judicial institutions concerning human rights, the rights of convicts or those who are in pretrial detention. So it's forced feeding. Many discussions: Is it humane, for example, to allow for situations where a person’s life is at risk and at risk? I want to remind you that the Ukrainian Constitution clearly defines the life of every individual and citizen as the highest value of our state. Clearly, then, we must do our utmost to make such situations impossible when there is a risk and a threat to life. Even when, for example, a convicted person or a suspected person creates a situation where he expresses his opposition to a particular situation through starvation. That is why we need to support the bill today. Once again, I emphasize that clearly defined paths, starting with the doctor’s conclusion, are based on all necessary documents, analyses and so forth, further court decisions, and only then does the feeding mechanism involve. That's why it's a necessary bill. The Trust MPs will vote for him and call on other colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u59	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u60	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, here is not supposed to be a discussion about whether it is necessary to feed or not to feed persons who are taking a step as appropriate as I am when they are in places where they are deprived of their will. It's not the decision "Non-merciful against Ukraine." The decision that a country should define a clear procedure for the application of appropriate feeding to such persons. It's happening, but there's no clear procedure. That's the biggest problem. That is precisely what people are complaining about because we do not know what is going on behind the walls of the places of deprivation of liberty, the way in which, including the services that protect convicts or prisoners, the violent way or otherwise, they do it. Therefore, it is essential that we apply such a procedure, and then this procedure will be clear, open, and understandable to all. What is the purpose of this procedure? Because people only do what they can when they cannot find protection in either the judicial system or the law enforcement system. This occurs in closed systems that are authoritarian, totalitarian or approachable. Remember how our political prisoners in Russia starved, what is happening now in Belarus. Such incidents occur in Ukraine, or they may happen, because acts of adultery are absolutely obvious and must be responded to. The last example of General Pavlovski’s trial, which the court decided to bring to trial during the trial, was that the investigating D.B.R. ordered him not to execute a court decision in order to bring the defendant to the building of the court. When a judge had to go to the video to conduct a proper interrogation, at the time when he was deprived of his will, the Internet suddenly broke out, saying that a person was being specifically pursued in conditions where he could not react differently than to such extreme measures. This is what we need to talk about, and this is what we need to be warned about by our legislation. We need to keep moving. We will surely vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u61	Ironman Jaroslav. Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners, in fact, it is crucial for Ukraine to implement and implement the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, because this shows the difference between us and the aggressor country that completely ignores such decisions. Of course, someone might be alert to the fact that the title of the law is "forced." This is a clear legal expression, and it does not in fact foresee that under any circumstances a person who may make a decision about an injustice protest because of hunger will at least have some effect on the actual procedure of the judicial and judicial dispute, which will necessarily, as is often the case in the penal structures, feed him. But we cannot allow ourselves as a civilized country building the rule of law to see people perish in prisons because of the imperfections of our legislative field. So we have two critical aspects that force us to vote in favour of this bill. The first is to demonstrate that we are a country that respects human rights and responds accordingly to the judgment of the Court, the European Court of Human Rights. The second is humanism and the need to bring these, say, fairly controversial norms into line with international law. Are there risks? Of course there is. There is some discretion, actually, of a doctor, but it can be completely corrected for the second reading. And the professional anti-corruption committee didn't see any corruption risks in this bill, so before we first read, we support, right to second reading to make this procedure as European as possible, and we follow the European Court of Human Rights decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u63	Thank you. It's from Kostin, Mama. "For the future" was on. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. What does it mean again? Kostinee, Mama, and then we go to the vote. Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, this law is not only about the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, but we realize that it is our duty. This law on the actual introduction of a humane procedure, which will be provided for by law, a humane procedure for the preservation of the lives of people under the control of the State, even if for whatever reason they want to take their own lives. We understand the complexity of the psychological nature in some cases of the person who is in such a situation. And you and I have an obligation to live up to this through international standards, that is, due to the doctor’s appropriate conclusion and due process. Therefore, the faction of the political party "Serial of the People" will vote in favour and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u65	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies! I'm listening to speeches by both the drafters of the bill and the representatives and the people's deputies. Well, you can imagine saying things like that that's the law for executing a European court decision. The ruling of the European Court of Justice is very large at present in Ukraine, with regard to which the law does not regulate violations that have been committed at Ukraine’s level in Ukrainian justice. That's the first rhetorical question. This bill applies to persons who are under watch. Why, though, if a state’s deprivation of power exists in the administrative system? Is there? There is. Can they get hungry? Yeah. The question is in the process. The European Court of Justice says, listen, come up with a procedure that will preserve a person’s life. This procedure will be medical, fed from a spoon. Well, that's not what technology is going to be used for this story. We won't be supporting in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u67	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of measures of forced feeding to convicted persons and persons under guard (registration No. 4323). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:01:03]] For-286 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds Received by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction (Registration No. 5559). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:01:41]] For 255 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Fries Igor Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u68	Hello again, fellows! You know, this law might seem pretty funny to someone, it's already a law called the Single bracelet Act. But you know, on May 22, of this year, one of our state's banking sector's «hedlineners» wrote a Facebook post. He wrote about how the state differs from private business, that private business always wants service, and the state always does some kind of obstacle to the development of this business, to the free management of community funds. And I've already registered this bill for 25 numbers. What's he talking about? Funding is about cash transfers. A simple formula that does not require primary financial monitoring of transfers of funds that do not exceed 5,000 dollars. And I think it's okay. But people, according to experts, about 13 million transfers per year in our country, to count 5,000 dollars, have to count 4999 dollars with one payment and 1 bracelet with the other payment. Not comfortable. Why don't we just fix and write that the primary financial monitoring is cash transactions that exceed 5,000 dollars, and by that, 5,000 will go into the total amount of the original one payment. Let us vote with you this bill in general to show that the state, and we are with you, including the state, we have the opportunity to be serviceable and comfortable for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u69	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Olga Mikhailni Vasilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on July 8, 2021, reviewed the bill (registration number 5559) (since 25.05). 2021) (imposed by the Ukrainian National Deputy Francis Igor Pavlovich) and following the provisions of article 108 of Part Two and article 114 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds obtained by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction" on the clarification of individual provisions to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Taking into account the committee's proposals to put forward the title of the bill as follows: to amend section 14, paragraph 8, of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds derived from Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction, on clarifying individual provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? You don't have to. Yeah, that's great. Are you insisting? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The bill on one bracelet will be discussed further, please. The Holy Rights of People’s Deputies. The word is given to the national deputy of Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, the "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u72	Please give Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u73	Please, Vasilchenko Galina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u74	Galina Vasilchenko, 118 constituency, Lviv. Dear colleagues, the bill is actually technical, but it's pretty important in the process of financial monitoring. Let's ask everyone to support in the first reading if there's a whole proposal, because there's really nothing to add in the middle of the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u75	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Synthetic Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u77	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I just want to emphasize, for a year and a half, you're just tormenting yourself without understanding how you can make a cash transfer and what you're asked to do when you're told: write 4 thousand 900 or 4 thousand 999 dollars. I was myself at the beginning of this law in April, I think, in the 20th year, when everyone, in Savings, in all banks, in all bank offices had some kind of misunderstanding. People do not realize that a single copy affects the fact that their transfer will be subject to primary financial monitoring. Such methodological errors may not be methodological. It was a government draft of a law that needed further elaboration. You were very quick to drive him away, you didn't understand the point. And this law is passed in this room, so we have the responsibility that people suffer for a year and a half, you have the responsibility. By the way, there are still many amendments to this law, many draft laws that need to be considered, not to be afraid. Since one coin has affected 13 million transfers, count how many people have suffered from what they did not know what to do. So, of course, it needs to be supported on the basis and in general. But I call upon both the government and the committee of profile, which is very afraid to consider changes to this law. You don't have to worry, there are rules that just hurt the whole community and damage the economy. So I'd like to take a little bit more time to look at these issues and look at all the draft laws and make changes so that the whole economy in the country works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u79	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u80	May I have a word with you, National Deputy Batenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u81	Please, National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, we see at work that we probably won't have a working day like this so that we don't correct the mistakes highlighted during the so-called "turbing hours" of our work there about a year and a half ago. Hurry, you'll hurt people. That's what we did to people when we voted on these innovations from the point of view of financioring. This law, the bill, (I thank Igor Fries, who initiated it) is not about oligarchs. This law does not include money laundering, criminal financing of terrorism, or the financing of arms proliferation. This law on ordinary citizens who suffer, and such payers as we know more than 13 million in Ukraine. This law on the price of one bracelet or the price of one coin for ordinary citizens. So I think we should take it as a whole today, and in this way show that we care about citizens at all times, when we talk for months about improving the lives of ordinary people, and we can't accept anything from the point of view of tariff improvement policy, or the ability to improve the tax rate to 250-400 kilowatts and so on. We're just talking about it from the stands and from the TV channels. Let's vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u83	Thank you. In support of Mama Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u84	Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! I'd like to address and remind the honourable MPs about Markarov's speech, who was the minister, and when she told them that it would be so much easier for people to have a financial monitoring limit of 150,000 jumps to 300. Do You Remember All? Only 5,000, when asked questions by national deputies, did she forget to answer something. That's what we're talking about. That's 5,000. Well, then, I have a question before the hall, to the drafters, if you've already come up with, at the request of a financier who's just overslept with these tests and is not obliged to make any conclusions for 5,000. So we need to talk about this openly, not as an initiative, something to make up for what's been putting that funding aside for over a year and a half. Speak truth, and then the people of Ukraine will hear, and the national deputies. Secondly, we need to pay attention and get to the law on legalization. Because wages are rising, inflation is rising, and the price of the bracelets is going through. Why 5,000 -- we're dependent on a period of two years? Can we make a greater limit? And who's going to control the operations that are handing over 5,000? Will the papers be written? How will this mechanism be regulated? Absolutely not. We're not going to support this initiative because we're looking for a comprehensive approach to creating legislation that really regulates the legalization of the funds that are obtained by criminal means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u85	The chess of motive. Then we go to the vote. Yeah? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u86	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, what do we hear in this room today? Formal Bill. Not one second in your life can buy even billions of dollars, not the kind of bracelet they're talking about today. People suffer for two years. Why is there no law in this room today that people need — by lowering tariffs rather than rising tariffs, by lowering gas prices, by gaining gas prices? Who will be responsible for the destruction of state companies today? 19 billion dollars in losses in Naftogaza, Ukraine. The damage today is 12 billion dollars in Ukrazalznice. And they get 100 million dollars of bonus money, someone sitting there wiping out the fifth point of the chair. When will people hear and see the real change in our country, the rich one who is part of the world’s richest nations? We are the richest nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u87	It's for reasons, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u88	I started with this bill, I'll try and finish it. You know, it was very interesting to hear the opposition say that this law is to help people, but we're not going to vote for it, we're not going to vote for it. Friends, we are voting to make it easier for our people, and that is what we are doing, "Serve of the people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u89	Nikolainka, for reasons, Andrew Ivanovich, we are voting afterwards.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u90	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I want to correct the honourable colleague Igor, who said opposition is against. Well, as a representative of the opposition faction, I want to say that Fatherland supports the bill, because, unfortunately, 25 years ago, and the bracelet, of course, costing 1 bracelet for a Ukrainian's life, is greatly undervalued because the economy is in crisis. But that will make life easier for hundreds or even millions, hundreds of thousands, or millions of Ukrainians, who daily, passing on some of the funds, are being monitored financially, just to make their lives more comfortable. So "Paternality" will support this bill, it's perfectly logical, it corrects technical error and inadequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u91	Let's go to the vote. The committee recommends the basis as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction (Registration No. 5559). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:15:28]] For 321 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, draft Law 5559. Please support and vote. [[11:15:58]] For 315 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification and assessment of the status of the Ukrainian Railway Association, the investigation of possible inactivity, the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of the listed enterprise, which will lead to a significant deterioration in the technical condition of the enterprise and the main production indicators. It's a draft regulation (registration number 5814). The chairman of the interim commission of inquiry, Grishin Julius Mikolayovna, is invited to attend. Give her four minutes. Wait! It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:16:58]] For 245 Decision taken. Give me four minutes, please, Grishinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! First of all, I'd like to thank all the factions who supported the idea of creating a temporary investigation committee to verify the state of the stock company's operations. I would like to thank all the members and experts of the TSC, through which we over the course of these six months have been digging up these Augustine stables of the Ukrzalznice. It is thanks to the fruitful cooperation of professional railways, members of the TSC and our experts that the interim report of our Interim Investigation Commission contains a deep analysis of more than 100 pages, and spills the world on the most acute and gruesome problems present today in the state company. What do we say today? The state in which the state-owned Cruise Company is no longer allowing it to carry out its basic tasks to the full: it's transporting cargo and it's transporting passengers. Our TSK in the interim report named the specific names of the real culprits of this condition of the Crossroads. Who are we talking about? First of all, it is the top management of this company, which is not professional, skilled railways, and their corruption and ignorance cause irreparable losses to the public transporter. To date, we find that the leadership of the Ukrzalznice does not guard or develop the State’s trust in property and basic funds. The test has established a loss, consider one third of the value of the core funds. In the five years that we've studied, the cruiser's investment plan has only been implemented by 65 percent. And imagine, almost 30 billion dollars have not yet been won in this direction. As a result, our railway infrastructure is in critical condition. As a result, the security of movement in Ukraine has become more of a miracle than a rule, unfortunately. Another cause of trouble in Ukrazalnica is the significant influence of the oligarchic groups, which regularly fail to pay Ukrzalnica, including freight tariffs. This has taken away 100 billion dollars in the last 5 years. Positive. With the appointment of the new head of the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have managed to resolve the issue of raising freight tariffs, which will provide additional funds for infrastructure development and for the social security of Ukrzalznice employees. In speaking to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure, I want to say that, yes, there is a movement to change the top management of the University, but this movement is not enough. And in addition to the urgent need to change the top management of the Railroad, there is also a need to bring these people to account according to the points specified in our interim report. It's only a short one. We passed a bill yesterday that opens the salaries of government officials, members of the Supervisory Board and members of the government. Now we're going to see everyone who's getting wages. And the next step should be to carry out their wages in accordance with the efficiency of their work. So, colleagues, please support the report of our interim commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u95	National MP Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, at the beginning of this year's parliamentary group "The Party for the Future" sent a letter to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission deciding to include Mr. Rudik as a member of the commission. And, wonder, the commission was so busy with important documents on the work with the Crossroads that it hadn't found the address by September of the month. So our group is not represented in this genius committee that has done so much. If this Rudik were included, he would tell not only the Ukrainians but also the members of this commission, which would be the main thing in this report and what is not. 94 percent of the income of an enterprise like Ukrzalznica consists of infrastructure: it's tow and tracks. Thus, government deliberately does not invest money in infrastructure to show the profitability of the enterprise on paper to win a cloudy allowance, wages, bonuses. Because their contracts are written down: the more profitable they are, the more their bonuses, the more their wages. Everything, it's the key. What you wrote is a lyric, that's a secondary question. And any state in the person of the government would have to control it. Don't put any money into it. Can't you see how we're in a state of Crucifixion? Can't you see the wagons? Can't you see the mess our people are in? And you're saying they're wasting their time there. And the second. Tell me, what are you not going to give to these governments, what are they buying from importers? We have the Krukow factory, which can be a worthy competitor. Tell me about it from this rostrum, don't say "thank you" for helping us, for doing it, we worked so hard. It's the key. Ukrainians have their own products, we have good quality options, talk about it here. You have a heartache, and people need to see that this soul hurts, from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u97	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u98	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u99	Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u100	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! The only TSC that has to report in this room today is about the collapse of the special operation by "vagners". We Ukrainians want to know which one of these couples, Mr. Greensky or his secretary Jermak, has violated this special operation. Mr. Zelensky, you can no matter how much you want to appoint your friends who are familiar with government positions, but you're turning this country into a mafia branch. Good thing there are people here like Mr. Tishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u101	[[B in m in s a l in]] What's going on? Stop. Stop, let your colleague go. What are you doing? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you know that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Step away from it. Step away from the rostrum. He'll move on. What difference does it make? Get out of the way. If anything goes wrong. [[B in m in s a l in]] Get out of the way. [[B in m in s a l in]] A break of 15 minutes is announced. Keep up the good work ever since. No, not again when you stopped Tishchenko. And let's do some other methods, we don't have a gym. The break is closed. Give me time to finish what was left. How long was it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u102	Dear Ukrainians, most interestingly, I was interrupted by the phrase that Zelensky is turning the country into a Mafia branch. Now you've seen how this mob, the Watcher Institute, works. Mr. Zelensky, you're leading the country into a chasm, and that's what your stitches prove. Your Jermak may whisper in your ear that you are the country's greatest leader. You are the greatest laughing stock in the country. You and your Jermak are a tumor that needs surgery today. Shame on you and your "lookers" bastards!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u103	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julia Mikolayevna just announced it. Give it to me first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u104	Dear friends, during the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission, we have seen the egregious facts of corruption, the irresponsibility of the Supervisory Board, and the overall leadership. There's only one thing I want to tell you, one fact. There's a meeting of the Supervisory Board on the Wave Heat in Ukrazalnice with its own "Walking" heat travel. You and I, as well as the entire Ukrainian people, have paid 400,000 dollars for this to rest the oversight board. Over the last five years, 50 criminal cases. Imagine the number of workers and the vast spaces of corruption -- only 50 criminal cases were broken by force, 30 of them being investigated by police raids. This suggests that the forces are covering this corruption. Irresponsibility is today the slogan of the University and the Ministry of Infrastructure. Who is responsible for solving all these problems today? On account of business. The cost of transportation is increasing. Is that what this is all about? We're losing the transport market. The number of shipments is decreasing. People are going on the road to where the money is going to go. This irresponsibility is a crisis that needs to be resolved. Today, for two months now, this oversight council is no longer supposed to work. But they don't pick new ones, so it's convenient for someone. We need to solve this problem immediately. We went to the government, to the Prime Minister, and we asked that the new members of the Supervisory Board should be appointed immediately and that the relevant criminal cases should be brought against those who were currently working and resting for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u105	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give the floor to the honourable MP Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u107	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, surely our faction will support the report of the interim commission of inquiry on issues related to the Crucifixion. I'd like to point out that there were pretty convenient questions both on tariffs and after the downsizing of the truck and the traffic. I'd like to point out that this is not as much your problem as the problem you've been left with since you were 14 years old. A certain corporation, a lot of other things, and oversight boards, they led to what? They led to a fall in the number of passenger transports. More than six times as high as 13 years. For your report: 425 million passengers were transported in the 13th year, last year -- only 68, more than 6 times the fall. Similarly, if the number was 442 million tonnes in the 13th year, in the past it was 305 times smaller. That's exactly what I agree with tariffs when oligarchs have been lobbying for certain tariffs over these years, and this trend has to be changed, and it's in this report. Another very important point is that what was said by counterpart Sergei Rudik, General Electric, cannot push the domestic producer out of the internal rail market, it must be the protection of national economic interests and the domestic producer. It's got to be in the railroad. And the last moment on the supervisory board. I repeat, Bill 4199, I'm one of the co-authors. We need to limit the participation of journalists in the Supervisory Boards of the University. There should be people with experience working in the field, with an appropriate degree in transportation. It is not a loss but an enterprise’s profit, and only then can they receive a reasonable payment limited to the corresponding minimum wage. We support this report, but I repeat, there must be real changes in legal and legal acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u109	The chess of motive. Motive climes. Then we go to the vote. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u110	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the "Trust" MP will support the report of the Interim Investigation Commission, which investigated crimes in rail transport at Ukrzalnica, with the bad guys sitting on the board today and receiving 14 million dollars of bonuses. Imagine, on the day that the Ukrainian is undernourished and statistics show that 10 million people are starving, a poor state, some scum are robbing the state today. We also found out that the Railroad was borrowing less than 16 percent of its annual currency, 200 million dollars, while France is ratifying us for 0.00 percent of what equipment that supports its manufacturer. And Ukrainians today suffer from the fact that the Crossroads are collapsing. Worldwide, rail transport is profitable, but we have no profits in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u111	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you, you can't see the report behind the trees. Because there's everything in the report except for the need for the Crossroads. The report contains five items related to washing laundry with experience in Kazakh and the use of powders. There are ten points in the report as to how to put the IT system, without the basic calculation of passengers, no points on passenger accounting, and these are the revenue of the Cruise Station. There are innovations, such as the inclusion of deputies in the Supervisory Board, who shout loudly here. Instead of hiring professional people who know how to build a railway station, we're going to have MPs that are generally contrary to corporate governance. We've got some innovations, how do you get a summary of the M.C.C.P. leaders if you don't see it? Not to the profile committee, not to the Cabinet of Ministers, but to the Temporary Investigation Commission, the interim, the summary will be consistent. Where did you see that? Nothing about investment, where to take money to change passenger cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u113	Thank you. Please proceed to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decree (Registration No. 5814) on the Report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification and assessment of the status of the Ukrainian Railway Company, the investigation of the facts of possible inactivity, the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of the listed enterprise, which has led to a significant deterioration in the technical condition of the enterprise and the main production indicators (5814). Please support and vote. [[11:37:04]] For 296 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to apply to convicts and persons who stick to it. ( Excuse me, is that connected? I thought I could.) Those who are under guard are forced to feed. — Registration No. 4324. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:37:52]] For 252 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. It's a short-term procedure. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u114	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill that I am currently introducing is related to the bill that we supported today under number 4323, which deals with one condition. So one of the conditions for the enforcement procedure is the need for a court permit, and the bill provides for a proper procedure in the Criminal Procedure Code. The bill is intended to introduce, supplement the Criminal Procedure Code with a new article 206 with a badge 1, which provides that the investigating judge, a court within whose jurisdiction a suspect (accused) person is held in custody, decides on the application of the appropriate enforcement procedure for the prosecutor's care, which is prepared on the basis of the relevant medical documents and the doctor's findings. And the bill stipulates that this procedure should be immediately considered by the investigating judge (court) within 24 hours after the trouble comes. The law also provides for the possibility of holding a videoconference session. And other additions to the Criminal Procedure Code provide that the court will also be empowered to carry out the relevant judgments of the court to decide these matters with regard to the enforcement of convicted persons. This project relates to the fact that we supported it, because without the project that I report now, 4324, it will not be possible to fully implement the procedure envisaged by the European Court of Justice. So please be very supportive in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u115	The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement, Jácik Yulia Grigorovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u116	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on Law Enforcement considered the bill as early as December of last year. The committee made a number of comments on the content of the bill. In particular, they refer to a more thorough justification for the prosecutor’s concern about the use of such coercive measures. That is, the conclusion of the LRC or medical documents cannot be the only basis and all the circumstances that led to the refusal of a person to eat should be investigated. In addition, the form in which the convicted person refuses to accept food should be clearly defined and an appeal procedure for such a decision by the investigating judge should be provided. All of these comments can be removed to the second reading. Therefore, taking into account the position of the ECHR, which shows that the application of measures that have a therapeutic medical need cannot be regarded as inhuman or degrading, the committee recommended the bill to be considered in the first reading for adoption as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u117	Thank you. Please have a seat. Sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u118	I give the word "Sumar Victoria."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u119	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u120	You know, we're going to support this bill, of course. It's aimed at implementing the European Court of Human Rights ruling, and we're all Europeans here. But what I would now like to say, not about European practice, but about what we just saw in this Parliament. If we're all going to Europe like this, let's not kill parliamentaryism here. Because when one pine has decided that it can dictate to whom and what to say, then forgive me, we are reviving ourselves. When we want everyone to keep quiet, when we're so afraid of criticism, when we want a hot bath, we want ourselves, again, we just cuddle both as a parliament and as a state. You know, you shouldn't be so afraid of criticism. You can't have no way of speaking from this rostrum. You want the whole country to shut up. Yesterday, you did everything you could to keep no TV from writing about CNN's "vagners" investigation. No big TV channel! It's called boys and girls, censorship. And what Deputy Tishchenko is doing here is simply called "feeling sorry." I want to say again, there shouldn't be any pitfalls here. You are the deputies, not the mourners! You are representatives of the people of Ukraine. And let us all keep that in mind. And one more thing. You know, I've seen in Ukraine that there's more power for every force. Because the next day, when Janukovic launched the students in Maidan, there was a million in Maidan. And you're going to have more power. Just remember those who thought of themselves as "watchers" behind the country and behind the parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u121	The replica. Tischenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u122	Today was a very bold attempt to talk about the President of Ukraine about things that don't apply to the subject. Today there was a report by the TSK of Julia Grishna. And the national MP allowed himself to speak out of the question. So I invite everyone to speak only on the subject of the report in the future. [[B in m in s a l in]] And please, not you, gentlemen, who sold our country, who made Ilowaysk, who made the tears of our mothers, tell us about Yanukovich. You gave birth to him, you adopted him, and you will be responsible for him. It's you, it's your political power. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u123	Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u124	Good afternoon, dear friends! Igor Gus, "To the future." The master was just speaking, telling us that someone who came here had adopted Yanukovich. So I'll tell you, I don't know where you were on Maidan, and I had two criminal cases, eight years on Maidan, because I stood up to Yanukovich! And you know what I stood for and hundreds of thousands more? Don't let the pits come out here and shut their mouths! They didn't cover their mouths! I don't think any of the deputies should humiliate the President. Do you hear me? I don't think he's right. And if someone humiliates the President, judge him, bring him to trial and so on. That's really true. But coming out here and throwing someone away for a shrimp, any MP, sorry, that's not gonna happen! And if we're a minority here, there'll be a time when the spring of most people on the street will carry you. And you're going to have to beat this uncultured MP, and sooner or later, there's going to be a force that's going to make him and all of you sick. So I'm going to the head of Parliament, so let's make every deputy in this Parliament "green," "red," any one, has the right to speak, because it was voted by people. And no one, no one, no more than the person who just spoke has the right to go out and turn someone around. It's wrong, definitely. That's what Majdan was for. And I want to tell you without puffos, that's why, for one reason, people died in Maidan. So I ask all of us not to allow anyone here to decide who should speak and what should speak. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u125	Heroic glory! Igor Volodymyrovich, you have come to me. I don't think I can be blamed for preventing anyone from speaking in this room. It was, it is, and it will be. The fact that we don't always speak on the subject, I think every faction is sinning. It's wrong, but it's a Ukrainian tradition. I agree, let's also correct it. But from this rostrum, I hope not only from this rostrum will be able to speak. Freedom of speech is, has been, and remains in our state. Thank you. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. No, for reasons after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I wanted a bill first, but we have such an intense discussion. I fully support previous speakers: Parliament is a place for discussion. This Parliament is different from the State, or whatever it's called, in the Russian Federation. Any national MP from the rostrum can say he wants what he wants. And we may like his opinion or not, but this is the opinion of the Ukrainian National MP. That's why I'm very much asking for the future of all those in favor of other approaches, probably to find a different place for my work. Now for the bill. It's a technical bill, technical changes to the previous one. We support the position of the subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u127	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I'd like everyone to calm down, get back to work, we have important bills. And the 4324 we are discussing is closely related to what we voted for half an hour ago. So it's a shame that we're now wasting time to discuss this bill, which is completely continuing the line of amendments to our legislation, specifically in the Criminal Procedural Code, which regulates the feeding procedure. But I'd like to pay attention to something else right now. If we are already raising the issue of what needs to be addressed today, I call on the members of my colleagues on the professional committees to speed up the consideration of drafts that will allow full employment from September 25th of the Bureau of Economic Security, a new body that should have working conditions. Today, in mid - September, we need to think about: the place of work, the assembly speed up, ensuring that all legislative conditions are fully operational. Because then we'll catch up again, as we do now. I pay attention to the presentation by the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Monastery, to the presentation of a new project of the Ministry of Interior's work. There are important tasks for the state, including for you and me. The issue of digitization, the establishment of order in the territorial communities, the modernisation of the IMF system, our police. This includes our task with you, so let's focus on this, speeding up the adoption of the necessary bills. And what I stress about the Ukrainian army is once again our shared responsibility. The "Trust" MP group urges you to unite around these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u129	Thank you. It's a motive. No, David Georgiyovich with motive. Is anyone else going to make a statement? The procedure is not in the first reading. Now, David Georgiyovich, one minute. Nobody insists anymore? David Georgiyovich Arahami Then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u130	Colleagues, I'm motivated by what just happened in Parliament. It seems to me that this is an unacceptable behavior as a reporter who has not reported on the subject at all, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to turn off the microphone the next time someone is not on the subject. It's about any party, faction, that kind of thing, that's the first thing. Secondly, so will our colleague Mikolayovich, so we will address the faction "Serial of the People" to the leadership of the Supreme Council with the request to suspend both of them temporarily from attending parliamentary sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u131	David Georgiyovich, David Georgievich, you should know that only the Supreme Council can be removed from participation. We call on the Regulatory Committee, and after that, it will be the decision of the Supreme Council Hall. A little trailer. You were also not speaking on the subject. But I think the position of Arahama is absolutely right. Let's go to the vote for the law. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the application of measures of forced feeding to convicted persons and persons under guard (registration No. 4324). Please support and vote. [[11:52:58]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Sports (Registration No. 4577). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:53:29]] For 241 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Belenjuk Jan Vensanovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u132	[[Applause]] Thank you all. Thank you. Nice to meet you. Thank you all. It's very nice to meet you personally. Welcome to the House! Welcome to the Presidency! You know, it was pretty hot at the rostrum today, and it was like sports battalions that, in my view, should, as a professional athlete, stay in sports arenas. [[Applause]] Instead, we have today as parliamentarians the ability to support the field of sport. And I propose to you a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on State Support for Sports. The bill has been introduced to continue the President's initiative on State support for culture, tourism, and creative industries. And that's why I, along with other people's deputies, introduced a bill to amend the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Sports, namely, the part of the introduction of a reduced tax on added value of 7 per cent for the implementation of tickets to all-Ukrainian and international sports. The essence of the bill is very simple, next. Amendments to the Tax Code, which are proposed to introduce a reduced tax on added value of 7 percent to stimulate demand, increase the availability of socially important services, such as the implementation of tickets for all-U.S. and international sporting activities that are being carried out in Ukraine. And you know, it's a European practice. And I can give you a few examples. In Cyprus, this rate is 5 percent; in France, 5.5, Belgium, 6 percent; Germany, 7 percent; and the Netherlands, 9. So this is a really progressive thing that I'm sure we should introduce. For the second reading, he's ready to work with the members of the profiling committee to take note of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and find a common solution to support the field of sport. All: Sports! And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u133	Thank you, Jean-Vensanovic. Have a seat, please. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u134	Thank you. Honorable members of the Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! As Jean said, it's hot today. And I'm very pleased to end the first part of our working day with a very good and correct bill. And I'd like to take this opportunity, and from the high court, to join you in congratulating all our Olympics and the Paralympics who have taken over and entered the top-6 countries of the world! [[Applause]] Thank you. As a professional athlete and shy person, Jean will certainly not applaud herself. But we have to remember that there is a fellow member of our "Serve of the People" faction in our room, the Olympic champion. And about the bill. We're being blamed, and I want to use that word, and I'm sorry for it, the honourable Ukrainians, the mare populists who come here and tell us that we have to lower rates and tariffs, and forget that we do it all the time. And we're filling out the budget, and we're taking responsibility. And we don't forget about our athletes, our tourism, our culture, our creative industries. And I want to remind you that since January 1st, 21st, there has already been a standard that reduces taxes to 7 percent for the areas listed. And so that's the norm. [[Applause]] Thank you. And so this standard that I'm asking very much to support, and at my meeting, the members of our profiling committee supported this initiative, to support this bill. We will definitely work on it and take into account all the comments made by the professional COWWs and committees in order for it to serve for the benefit of Ukraine. In order for our children, young people, all of us, together with you and our European partners, to have the opportunity to enjoy this beautiful sport -- our Ukrainian sport with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u135	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Yeah, three factions. Then let's make a break by 12:30. And we'll start right after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u136	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u137	Galina Vasilchenko, 118 constituency, Lviv. Dear colleagues, we all know how difficult it was in the area of quarantine sports. Not only have many competitions been canceled, but sports events, sports competitions, and sports have often not been broadcast, and they have lost much. However, they were forced to pay rent, pay salaries to their players, coaches, employees, and in this way in any way to maintain, keep their sphere blue. They stood up. But in our country, unfortunately for some reason, the field of sports is such that it is financed on a residual basis. And this bill reduces the tax rate to 7 percent is at least some minimum that we can do already to help the sports sector. We all know and respect our Olympics and the Paralympics, who have done a very decent job this year in the competitions, for which we thank them very much. Even though they did not have adequate financial support, the State’s support was generally appropriate. Clearly, this bill will be supported. But I would like to ask the authorities to pay much more attention to sports, so that the area of sport is properly financed, not to the rest of the principle. This is really not just important for athletes; it is generally vital for our future, for children, for the Ukrainian nation to maintain its health. And the bill, of course, we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u138	Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u140	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Now let's essentially give this draft law. In fact, the author of the bill says that the purpose of this bill is to give more people access to sports. Maybe. But in small cities or in other villages, such international and national sporting activities are not being carried out. So is this equal access for people to sports? No, it's not. This goal will not be met in this case. The second question. Are sports competitions commercial? Yes, commercially. They can also be worth a lot of money. So it seems to me that such measures are simply or should be limited by the author's offer in the price of a ticket, or by another way, to determine from the minimum wage. Because if the cost of going west is 1,000 euros, tell me, what's the plan, what's the level? And this bill isn't about supporting sports at all, it's about reducing the cost of tickets to allow most people to join in. But this law, in particular, does not provide that the organizers of these measures will reduce the cost of the ticket. And that's all that matters. Please understand. We have to predict for the second reading that either this decrease should be used then, somehow to be administered and used to support sport, or otherwise. Because now it's a good idea, but it's not legislative at all, it's not achieving the goal that the author sets for herself. So I want us to support it in the first reading, but for the second reading with the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u142	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u143	Thank you. Your Honourable Head, Your Honor! Our faction certainly supports this bill, as supported by it and by the Committee on Economic Development, we support it, just as public procurement has. But I'd like to pay attention, this is where the committee's position came in. I'm going to have a question right now, not to the author, but to the committee. See what the committee should do? I'd like to give you figures, for example, how much less will Ukraine's budget get from the added value tax, which is down from 20 percent to 7 percent. The norm is that tickets to all-U.S. and international sporting activities should be implemented at 7 percent, not 20 percent. So 13 percent, that means something's not going to get Ukraine's budget. I mean, first, how much will the budget deficit go up, how much will the government budget get? As a result, some social programs will be reduced. And because we can do this as a "service bear," on the one hand, by lowering the tax, on the other hand, we're going to reduce the revenue to the budget and, like, the ticket. Of course, we realize that lowering prices will result in more people coming and perhaps more people getting out of the traffic. But it's going to win people over, not the government budget. Well, and certainly, let's give the financial and economic justification, please, for the second reading, so that we can speak substantively in this law. Because fiscal instruments need these numbers. And last of all, it's about morbid populism after the VAT drop and so on. Individual MPs themselves are engaged in macular populism when individual oligarchs or Kernel companies reduced the value added tax on individual commodities. When a cinematographer, not a stranger to today’s authority, is reduced by VAT. When VAT is lowered by many, but not by those who need it. We also insist on lowering or withdrawing VAT from the price of gas for the population in need. This is going to be significant for them -- minus 20 percent to the price. I repeat, this bill will be supported on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u144	Dmitruk Artem Hendajovich with motive. I can see the redhead. I can see that. Three speeches and we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u145	Dmitri Artem, Odessa. As a person who has organized more than 300 sports activities, I can say with certainty that this bill is timely and needs to be supported. This bill is certainly for the promotion of healthy lifestyles, for the promotion of sports. And you have to say that in all European countries, the rate is much lower, it's about 5 to 7 percent, and in Ukraine it's still 20. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill, which is now important for our country, for the sports industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u146	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, what is this discussion? During the pandemic, there was a minimum of sports competitions, and the broadcasts, respectively, did not generate income, were not received in most clubs. So this needs to be adjusted by reducing the VAT rate. They continue to suffer as if a large number of people are gathering in the stadiums, and they show it all over the channels, and accordingly they're getting revenue out of it. Let's give them a chance at least to rest and get at least less damage. Our MPs are voting in favour, and he's asking everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u148	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, indeed, the pandemic has had such a serious impact on all aspects of our lives, including the tourist and cultural sphere, and sports. It seems to me that the sports sphere suffered the most because almost all measures were banned during quarantine. And today both sports federations and sports clubs, which were still unprofitable and to the Coronavirus, lost their profits both from advertising and ticket sales. And they really need to be supported today. So this decrease in VAT from 20 to 7 percent, I think in time. We've supported both culture and tourism and creative industries. That's why it's time to support sport, because sport and sports support -- it's got to be in our national interest. So let's support it. The "Trust" MP will also support this bill with everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u150	Krulko Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u151	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. We are the faction that always stands in the defense of Ukrainian sports and the development of Ukrainian sports. Moreover, today, during the performance of Jean Belenjuk on the rostrum, we applauded him as the only Olympic champion in the summer Olympics. I think a better round of applause might be the real vote in the hall when we demonstrate our work of supporting sports. Therefore, a reduction of 20 to 7 percent of VAT from ticket sales is simply going to make it more accessible for Ukrainian citizens to participate, see competition, support our athletes, and thus enable them to develop sport. So I believe that this bill is to unite the hall, it needs to be voted for, and it needs to be invested in Ukrainian sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u152	Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Sports (Registration No. 4577). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:42:21]] For 298 Decision taken. Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u153	Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Invocation of the Interfractional Parliamentary Union "To Protect Violations of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens and Against Political Repressions "Forbidden to Forbid." The national deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Leonidovic, was elected head of this union
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u154	According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Schwacz Anton Alexiyovich, as part of the MP's political party "Serve of the People". The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Medical Devices (registration number 5547). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:43:33]] For 236 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend. From the authors and from the committee? Please give Michael Borisovich four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u155	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On July 9, a committee on national health, medical care, and health insurance reviewed the draft Law on Medical Devices. The bill is included in the draft bill for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill was a separate decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, which was introduced by President Zelensky’s decree, as necessary systemic changes to improve Ukraine’s health system. The development of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices is based on the time and integration of Ukraine into the European Union under the Association Agreement. It's a system bill that's been waiting for a branch for a long time. The bill provides for the introduction of European principles and procedures in the field of the circulation of medicines defined, inter alia, by the basic EU Directive 2001/83 on the Community Code of Medical Devices for Human Use and other EU Directives. The bill aims, inter alia, to reduce administrative pressure on pharmaceutical market participants by creating a single regulator in the field of drug circulation, in the same way as in the countries of the European Union. Enhancing the transparency of the introduction of medical devices into Ukraine’s market and further circulation. Protecting consumers from dangerous, inefficient, and inefficient medical devices, and improving the physical and economic availability of medical devices for patients. Developing a favourable investment climate and overcoming technical barriers to international drug trade The bill also removes a number of provisions of Ukrainian legislation that do not comply with European Union standards and have prompted comments from international experts who carried out an assessment of the compliance of the Ukrainian system of regulation of the circulation of medicines. The committee at its meeting decided to support the bill (registration number 5547) and suggested that when it was further developed, the second reading should take into account a number of comments given by our colleagues. And between the first and the second reading in the form of amendments, we're going to take these notes off. Bill 5547 is supported by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law on Medical Devices be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u156	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u157	Please give it to Stephanie Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u158	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, today Ukrainian patients with oncology, hepatitis, and epilepsy are forced to bring medicines to Ukraine from abroad. You know why? Because they are cheaper there or because there are simply no drugs in Ukraine. Valise patients, seriously ill people, take medicines from Turkey, Egypt, and even Germany. Chronically ill Ukrainians today do not receive a cure here because they are much more expensive, sometimes by five times. The Law on Medical Devices has not changed systematically in Ukraine for a long time, but point changes have been adopted. For example, six years ago, a simplified registration of drugs registered in the European Union was introduced in Ukraine. As a result of these changes, 155 medical devices have been registered in Ukraine — one third of the government’s purchasing programs that have helped oncological children, people with hepatitis, HIV, and other serious diseases. Regrettably, the text of this bill has been annulled. But we agreed with the committee colleagues that we would return them between the first and the second readings. We'll also return effective procedures for the state-owned purchases of the U.S. Medical Procurement Company. We regulate clinical trials at the European level. We will also introduce transparent procedures for the functioning of an organ that will be created to control medical devices. Unfortunately, in the first reading, we cannot support this bill, but if the changes mentioned above are adopted between the first and the second readings, we will be ready to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u160	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u161	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u162	I'm sorry, I listened. Who? Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u163	Thank you. I couldn't agree more with what my colleague at Voice said. In fact, the bill is not currently well - worked; it has many shortcomings. But we really talked about it on the committee, and we agreed to exclude the second reading flaws. But in the first reading, we will, unfortunately, endure. In the second reading, if these flaws are removed, we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u164	Larissa’s Bilozer
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, Larissa Bilozer, Trust Group, Winnitzkin. Imagine that legislation that regulates the circulation of drugs has not been updated for 25 years. In a quarter of a century, it is logical that the pharmaceutical industry has made a huge leap in its development and that legislation should take that into account. This bill has been worked on by a large number of steakholders for quite a long time and quite actively. Of course, it is not without fault, I think that it can be corrected for the second reading. But today we have just a flood of drugs that are completely counterfeit or dangerous to humans. And in order to fight this forgery and also to define the rules on advertising, this bill was drafted. It actually regulates the full life cycle of drugs, and there's a lot of Ukrainian reality, but it introduces the norms and standards of the European Union. We have only one rule to work. So it seems to me that we should finally control and fight against counterfeit and indeterminate drugs. Next, about orthodontic drugs. Very many children with orthodox diseases, people with severe disease, do not have access to very innovative good medicine. So it seems to me that if we adopt this law, we can allow those drugs that are registered with the European Medical Agency. And it's also forming a single organ, the central authority of executive power, that will control this entire life course of drugs. So it's very important, too. The only thing we have to do is make sure that there's a normal competitive selection, there's proper funding and there's really digitization of these procedures, so there's no corruption in getting licenses and so on. That's why I think it's this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u166	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u167	Please pass the word to the National Deputy Speedhod Annie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u168	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP will support this bill in the first reading, because, on the one hand, it is designed with comprehensive consideration of the provisions of the European Parliament and the Council Directive on the Community Code of Medical Devices for Human Use. But on the other hand, it contains a number of important flaws that need to be corrected for second reading. For example, consideration should be given to the protection of the rights of research subjects involved in clinical trials, research into medical remedies for internal disagreements, and the potential risks of illegal use in such clinical trials of minors. For example, a person may consent to the trials, but it is permitted, according to guardians or other caregivers, to consent to the trials of young, underage children. And only then, after the actual trials, do we send this information to the care and care bodies. This is a dangerous article and requires further work, because abuse can be committed on this side, which is unacceptable. The bill also provides for a state registration to relieve the applicant of the obligation to submit results to clinical studies and clinical trials if he can prove that the medical device has a well - studied medical application. But I'm sorry, it's a very broad concept, and we have to be very specific. And it's better that every medical tool has a document on the research that's been carried out, and we don't have any drugs in the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u170	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Medical Devices (registration number of the above-mentioned Bill 5547). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:55:48]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regarding the passage of periods of appeal for administrative and other services during quarantine (registration number 5454). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:56:25]] For 251 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oléna Alexiyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u171	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! On March 17, 2020, from the beginning of the pandemic and quarantine in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease. And it has been established by this law that since the date of the quarantine, the period of appeal and the receipt of administrative and other services has been suspended. And the current state of affairs has become virtually unlimited. These service documents began to be reviewed for months, and at times, they exceeded even six to nine months when the subject was asked to do so. In view of the following, we propose Bill 5454, which proposes to restore the duration of administrative and other services within quarantine. This will lead, first, to a reduction in corruption. This will simplify business and economic activity and improve government regulation in the area of administrative services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u172	Thank you. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Belarus’s Larisa Mikolayevna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! In short, the purpose of the bill is to allow government authorities and officials to provide administrative services during quarantine. We've already talked about that by the beginning of March 2020 we had adopted Law 3219, which was really necessary. There were problems with drugs, vaccines, purchases, no clear instructions, and no understanding of what to do next. But it really needs to be done here. As a result of this law, in fact, administrators have simply stopped providing services to people, and there are times when documents have been misunderstood. And indeed, quality services have ceased to be received very often. Therefore, on 16 June 2021, the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization considered a bill by Ukraine to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the passage of periods of appeal for administrative and other services during quarantine and the outcome of the general discussion decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council, draft Law No. 5454 and the outcome of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. In preparing the draft for second reading in accordance with the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules, it is planned to finalize the bill by excluding from the draft Ukrainian Law "On Administrative Services" and clarifying the changes to the "Final Regulations" of the Anti-Kovidian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease. I also draw your attention, colleagues, to the fact that the Association of Local Self-Government Authorities and the Association of CNAP generally support the adoption of the bill in the first reading with further elaboration. Thank you for your attention. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? I can see that. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to People's Deputies Pipi Nina Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u175	Good afternoon. Natalia Romanovna, but please tell Romano to Lozinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u176	I said so, Natalia Romanovna. I'll pass it on to Mr. Lozinski, please. Pippa Natalia Romanovna, I told you, you're handing it over to Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u177	Roman Lozinski, Lvivščina Decentralization and the three words that are related to it, one of these three words is services. What we're fighting for in this room, what we're fighting for, and what tens of thousands of deputies and local council officials are working on are quality and affordable services for people. We did everything we could to make every Ukrainian forget about taking bus tickets, going south to the district center, not finding an official, going back south and spending another day getting help, a paper that should be automatically close and conveniently provided to him. That's why the CNAPs were introduced. It's a shame, by the way, that the budget declaration and the budget don't provide for the development of the CNAP network. And it's a huge mistake of effective power that I hope we can correct during this budgetary process. But when it comes specifically to this law, it solves the problem of people who have emerged as a result of the pandemic. Services are not being delivered in time, and services are not being provided in a good way. And this is our responsibility, this is the responsibility of the entire hall -- to make sure that Ukrainians don't drive, wait and have no problems, and don't take weeks to get the document they're entitled to. So I thank my co-authors on my committee for this standard, and it solves the problem. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. Because quality services are supposed to be the norm. Because available services for citizens in the smallest villages, in the remotest, including mountain areas, should be in the nearby CNAP, on the next street. And this is the responsibility of parliamentarians to ensure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u178	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u179	Sir, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'd like to give you the word to the Potter of Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u180	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u181	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. My friends, I want us to look at this law and mention that today's COVID-19 epidemic doesn't end and quarantine continues. And we really have a huge problem with this, because unfortunately, Ukraine is one of the worst countries in Europe, once again, one of the worst at a particular rate, the worst at the rate of vaccination. In spite of all the promises of active authority. You remember Zelensky telling me that I personally promise you, I take control, Ukraine will be one of the first to start the vaccination. I lied. Ukraine will be one of those who will move faster. I lied. Our vaccination rate is very low. We're getting sick again on COVID-19. This is happening right in front of our eyes. I call on the authorities to finally stop pianising themselves, and to start piary vaccination. To ask people to be vaccinated. I can say that as a national MP who was first vaccinated to show an example to people. And I think we all have to do everything we can to raise this level. Next. We need to prepare our health facilities for the fall. Today, we have oxygen problems in many even resilient hospitals that today receive patients with COVID, oxygen stations, and everything we need. COVID didn't disappear. In Ukraine, vaccination rates are very low. In front of it is a difficult autumn and a difficult winter. You have to work for the authorities, you have to work, you don't have to rest, you don't have to rest on laurels that don't exist, these laurels. So work now and let's explain together the need for vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u182	The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriovich, "For the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u183	Please give the word to the National Deputy Speedhod Annie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill in the first reading. Because, in large numbers, it solves and regulates the question of stopping the deadlines of asking for administrative services and really will solve the problem of getting people administrative services at the centres of providing them. In doing so, I would like to mention that, in general, we have today a pandemic and a cadaveral situation very often used by government authorities, local self-government authorities to prevent citizens from accepting, to ensure that they do not fully perform their functions and powers for which they were called. And I think this is the same question that needs to be addressed. This applies not only to administrative services but to all services provided by public authorities and public enterprises. For example, to this day, you will not be able to attend a reception in Ukrost because of Quarantine Crucifixion. I already think it's a viable quarantine, given that all quarantines end, and it never ends there. So I think that these issues need to be addressed equally in a legislative way, because today, quarantine abuse is taking place in a comprehensive way that does not allow our citizens to receive full information, full services. We're voting in favour of this bill. Let's provide clear and clear rules for the provision of administrative services and make life easier for people in a pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u185	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, of course, any improvement in administrative services, their accessibility and transparency is a positive one. But please tell me, is it more important to get in a taxi or a checkbook to draw? In a situation where people today are not like the administrators, people cannot wait for their own payment, which has become scary. They wait for this terrible day of payment and do not know what will be in it. And why today, unfortunately, with the smallest pension in Europe, we have the highest cost of living. People spend up to 90 percent of their income on today's security. Yesterday Milonov is a recent minister, and now he's the counselor of everyone, and he's offered: that's how we have to save. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You're guilty of not saving. Here you have to store, save, and in this your bright future. I have a question to ask the authorities: What can I do to save? From minus, no matter how much you save, it's still going to be minus. That's why we're demanding in the preparation of the budget for next year's substantial pension raise, and there's resources for that. Every year, "The Opposition Platform for Life" shows how, on the one hand, to raise income, on the other hand, to make the cost of living less. Realistically, the wise, responsible policy of national resource allocation can make the cost of our citizens three times cheaper. And power, if it thinks about people, has to do it. And if they don't, they'll rob people by showing them TVs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u187	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. After that, Aresonkov. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u188	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Of course, fellow Members, the main task for us is to make it as convenient as possible for our Ukrainian citizens to be able to receive the services available at CNAPah (administrative service centres). It's a very bad tradition and trend that, as my colleagues have pointed out, our Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not allocate the right resources to support these services centres. Just by analyzing the bills that we're looking at here every day, we see almost every day we're charging local self-government budgets with some kind of expense, but we're not letting them fill their budgets with their own revenue. We're just creating additional conditions where they need them, where they want them to spend their money. Well, we have to create conditions so that local self-government authorities have the greatest opportunity to develop their territories, not just to live by one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u189	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the position of our members of the Trust Group has already been echoed by my colleague, Bilozer. We will support this bill. Yes, unfortunately, we already have 3,000,660 cases of COVID and unfortunately, there is a tendency to increase. At the same time, however, we all realize that it is impossible to stop the country’s activity, the activities of the territorial communities. On the contrary, we need to consider how to create all the necessary conditions for citizens to receive the necessary quality services. The only thing that needs to be done is to make some adjustments to the second reading because two bills are being amended. One has a general obligation, the other has a temporary effect. As a rule, this is not acceptable, so it is necessary to regulate this legal norm. In general, we will be the Trust MP, supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u191	Is anyone else going to make a statement? Let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u192	If you'll excuse me for a moment, please, Belozer and Kloczko. Just a minute. Technical question, we need to reconcile. Klochko Andriyovich. And Schuljak. Helen Aleksyevna, please come. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. As far as this bill is concerned. There's a technical error in the preparation of the document. There's both the position of the authors, and the position of the committee is now to send this bill for re-reading, because we need to work out, shorten the deadlines so that it can be moved to the hall next week. Now I'm going to be the basis for the committee proposal first, and then we're going to move on to the proposed decision. The head of the committee, is there any objection? Is there no objection? None. The authors don't have any, either? Okay. Helen Alexiyevna, how do you not deny it? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regarding the passage of periods of appeal for administrative and other services during quarantine (registration number 5454). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[13:18:05]] For-24 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Law (registration number 5454). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:18:37]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, put to the vote the proposal to shorten half the time of preparation for the re-reading of the bill (registration number 5454). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:19:14]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a competitive commission for the selection of candidates for the post of Head of the National Agency for the Identification, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Risks - Crimes (registration number 5383). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:19:55]] For the 250. Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Radina Anastasia Olegovna (both from the authors and from the committee), is invited to attend. Give me four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u193	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to finally identify candidates for a competitive commission to elect the director of the Agency of Management, to search for assets derived from corruption and other crimes. How did the committee elect these people? The committee held an open competition and the committee even continued to accept these documents in order to allow all those who wanted to submit themselves. The committee conducted interviews with all those who submitted the complete package of documents, and the committee’s rating vote identified three persons who were proposed to be appointed as a member of the competitive committee. This is Kiskin Yuri Volodymyrovich, a lawyer, Ivanenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, the managing partner of the legal association "Conventa Ligal" and Vernidubov Sergey Ivanovich, the head of the Bar Association "Vernidubov and Partners". And finally, colleagues, I want to draw your attention to the following. Since December 2019, ARMA has no permanent leader. In the summer of this year, the temporary leadership of the ARMA was suspected of committing corruption. And the only thing that currently separates us from the possibility of starting a competition and choosing a new head of the ARMA is the decision of the Supreme Council to recompile a competition commission and, in fact, appoint people under the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Accordingly, colleagues, the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy is very much asking for support in this decision and for the opening of a competition for the election of the new leader of the ARMA. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u194	Please sign in. Needed to Be Discussed? Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two out, Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u195	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u196	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, he was surprised to hear the head of the anticorruption committee. What's going on? All the members of the competition commission that we are asked to support are Ukrainians. Well, it finally happened. I'll remind you that exactly a year ago we voted for the SAP Competition Commission. And when it was determined that there were no internationals there, Mrs. Radina said that she would leave the country immediately, because that was not the way to live. I'll remind you that the same thing happened when we voted the composition of the competition commission to the State Bureau of Investigation. It also seemed that without the total advantage of the international community, it was impossible to work. And suddenly it turned out that only the anti-corruption committee could appoint Ukrainians in relation to the ARM. So perhaps all other positions could be assigned to Ukrainians without fear? I propose to support the first step in really having Ukrainian citizens take positions in our state to represent our state in the central authorities, to elect leaders and to be leaders. I'm glad Anastasia Radina came to the same conclusion, so to speak, on the path of correction, as suggested by her colleagues. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u198	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u199	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u200	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u201	In fact, voting for such a composition of a competitive commission would be a mistake. An error that has already been demonstrated at the State Bureau of Investigation and the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. An error that has now led to the fact that the name of the head of the Bureau of Economic Security was known almost two months before the competition ended. If you want to continue to run the raids and control, instead of really identifying the independent members of the commission, please take full responsibility for this. The independent director of the ARMA will in fact not be on such a commission. But it's your choice. What do you really need to do now? It's to strengthen the authority of the ARM so that we don't constantly witness that it's ineffective. Although, in fact, similar institutions work adequately both in France and in Italy. Introduce asset management planning before, in the arrest procedure, so that, in fact, the ARMA can offer this mechanism. Well, of course, if you're pleased with the people who worked with the Party of Regions as part of the committee, go ahead and vote. We'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u202	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u203	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u204	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u205	"The opposition platform is for life," well, the apriors for a complex approach to any organs that are given the loving functions that are defined by law. Well, look, essentially, taking ARMAs where they're not, I'm paying attention one more time, including by the D.B.I. Manager, it's an inefficient body. First. There is no manager; there is no way to check the ARMA. One. And secondly, no one will answer again. This is how this new, created, newly created organ lives without authority, without leadership. Well, who likes it? Well, I finally liked it, and I want to support Bujansky, that there are really no representatives from abroad who are essentially recommended by the committee for the selection of a board leader. But ARMA is a specific organ. In order to choose a leader, you need some understanding. Why Understanding? Because the ARMA has a specific feature of its work: finding assets, banning use, alienating them, or transferring them to use. But it's not from the civil process, it's from the criminal. Very rare cases of civil confiscation, no more, of its own specification. We have three representatives. They're members of the legal community who are working for the defense. But the ARMA has a slightly different approach to organization of work. And in order to be a member of a commission and ask faithful questions, we need to have more practice with another specificity. We will not support this vote in essence, for it will be a way into nowhere and a lack of objectivity of the members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u206	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u207	I wish we could fight corruption here and push this decision forward. But if you look at who's coming and who's coming, who's going to take the lead of the ARMA, you'll see that it's the other way around. We're just trying to assign people to choose the leader of the ARMA from the side, as it were, of loyal people to the ruling party. It's just another attempt to control the anti-corruption structures of the people. I hope it doesn't happen at all. But ARMA is a very, you know, structure that is attractive from an economically corrupt point of view. And I would very much like these people to just remember that. If we're talking about the fight against corruption, it's probably not to be done, it's not to be politically controlled, it's to be talked about, it's to be talked about, it's to be honest, for example, about Big Building and why a mile of road in Big Construction costs about twice as much as it costs in previous years. To talk about why 65 percent of all government purchases go to a pianist program, actually, again with higher prices. Talk about what happened, colleagues, with the law that bought equipment at OHMATDIT without tenders. You voted for it at 10 p.m., and now all these tenders are being mass annulled in the courts. To talk about what's called "anti-corruption policy" is a lot of the time we're hiding a garbage can. And so, you know, if you talk about fighting corruption in this room, you either have to take off the cross or put your panties on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u208	For the reasons of who, please? Please, Edward, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u209	Anton Polakov, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u210	Anton Eduardoovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u211	It's strange to hear from colleagues about some increase in ARM functions. What else do we have to let them do? Everyone knows how land, equipment, and cars just disappeared into the ARMA. Everyone knows how they use the assets of entrepreneurs. Everybody knows that ARMA actually manages property, statutory capital, over 80 billion dollars, and the profits are 10 to 20 million dollars. For your information, the Reserve has a statutory equity of 50 billion dollars. That's right, ARMA. So in a year and a half, we have to finally assign normal leadership to the ARM if we're here to actually declare a fight against corruption. That is why our parliamentary group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u212	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u213	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Once again, heated discussions about who should be on the board of competitors. I'm reminding you that we haven't had a case where we've appointed a representative, either from the Supreme Council or from another, let's say, to the board. I'd say those candidates, and our trust MP group thinks they're professional enough, they're from a law firm, they're absolutely capable of performing the functions that they require. Therefore, we recommend that we support these candidates, vote. But let's not forget that today we have very important issues that need to be addressed: the launch of the Bureau of Economic Security, the support of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other law enforcement agencies. That's why the Trust MP group is calling for work. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u214	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a competitive commission for the selection of a candidate to serve as Head of the National Agency for the Identification, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (Registration No. 5383). Please support and vote. [[13:33:18]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the ratification of the Convention on Court Agreements (Registration No. 5120). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:33:51]] For 246 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u215	Good afternoon, colleagues. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the presidential bill under number 5120. And this bill, it's to be implemented. The Law was passed on June 15, 2021, on the ratification of the Convention on Court Agreements. And this bill just provides for the implementation of the relevant provisions of the Convention, which you have ratified. The law provides for amendments to the Law on International Private Law, the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Procedure. These changes are aimed at the implementation of articles 3.5.6 of the Convention on Court Agreements. And it would seem very simple, but very important for international private law for appropriate civil and commercial relations with a foreign element. To ensure that the parties in cases defined by law or an international treaty have the right to choose the State and the appropriate court, in accordance with their agreement, where their case will be heard. Therefore, this is a gradual implementation of the relevant international agreement, the Convention on Court Agreements, and I therefore ask for the support of the relevant bill under number 5120. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u216	Thank you. The word is given to a member of the Committee on Legal Policy of the People’s Deputies, Paul Vasilovich Pavlisch, as a coreporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u217	Good afternoon, dear fellows! By order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 19, 2021, the Committee on Legal Policy had before it at its meeting on July 14, 21st, a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Agreements for the Choice of Court No. 5120 of February 19, 2021, submitted by the President of Ukraine. According to the explanatory note, the purpose of the bill is to amend legislation to ensure that Ukraine implements the Convention on Court Selection Agreements, which is ratified by the draft Law 0092 of February (19, 2021). And as the representative of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine really reported, the convention was ratified accordingly, and the law of 15 / 06 was passed. 2021, signed by the President on 01.07.2021 The bill proposes to supplement article 497 of the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine with article 366 of the master procedural code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law with a new rule 4.1, which gives participants the right to make a treaty on judicial selection. The GNEU Bill stated its comments, which could accordingly be implemented and removed between the first and the second readings. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the ratification of the Convention on Agreements for the Choice of Courts (No. 5120) (since 19 February 2021) (reported by the President) on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u218	Thank you. Please write down: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. The hammer of Igor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u219	The hammer of Igor, the sumina. Request to pass the word to an expert named Annie Krakhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u220	Anna Constantine's Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, the bill has been drafted for the implementation of the recently ratified Ukrainian Convention on Court Agreements. And indeed, we now have a conflict in international law, we don't have the right to choose a court, and that's why this bill is very good, it needs to be accepted. The MPs are voting for him in the first reading. Those shortcomings that exist can be corrected between the first and the second readings. And so far, I urge everyone to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u222	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, the bill is not just good, it is so good that it needs to be voted on as soon as possible. Therefore, please proceed to the voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u224	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u225	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for the timely invitation to speak. I want to support my colleague Mamka. I'm sure he won't insist on talking. We are absolutely the only ones on this issue, we believe that what is involved in the responsibility of authorities that are now able to control certain assets is clearly clear and unquestionable. This means that all procedures should be transparent, responsible, and clear. That's why we're going to abstain from voting now, because we think it's a requirement. I hardly ever thought that I would appeal to the U.S. Department of State or the White House, but it was they who pointed out that the situation of corruption and the independence of anti-corruption bodies in Ukraine was unseemly. And they demand the appointment of an objective, transparent, anticorruption prosecutor. Why don't you? Well, I'll be honest with you, I understand why even at Kuchma, at Yushchenka, at Yanukovich, they were afraid of it, although we have to give it right, they finally got it on their heads. Why are you afraid, you're new faces? You don't steal anything. If you do not steal, why do you not want to find those who steal? You're probably afraid they'll eventually find you, just like it did in the Romanians. So let's not fool ourselves or people, you're not ready to fight corruption today, because the President's Office is leading it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u226	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u227	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u228	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, we have certainly supported the ratification itself, and now what Minust proposed, the bill, is quite positive. I think that, of course, the session room will support it, because really, if the participants have the right to choose with a foreign element, including in accordance with the agreement or the law on the court, it will only be in favor of the image of Ukraine. But if we think that this is how we're going to calm our international partners, and they're going to think that finally Ukraine has built its judicial system properly, we're very wrong. There are a number of resonant trials that are being followed around the world. I've already told you today, and I'll do it again. The trial of General Pavlovski. Breakdowns. At first, the prosecutors were sure to delay the process. Then the judge went on vacation before the trial. Next, we remember that when the court decides to bring the defendant to trial accordingly, the investigating D.B.R.D. forbids his orders to be brought to court accordingly. Let's move on. Today, it turns out, the judge is already gone. I'm sick. And there will be more and more of these, because there is obviously a command from above to delay this process, not allowing a person to gain the right in court to soften the measure of precaution. That is what our international partners will be watching. That is why they will judge what is happening in our judicial system. And for this bill, we will certainly vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u230	I see Yurishin with motive. After that, Aresonkov. Then we vote. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Sobolev, I can still see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u231	There are some strange things about this bill. Well, first of all, we know that we have branches of power divided. But somehow the President's bill is signed by the Minister of Justice and represents the Deputy Minister of Justice. You're either a cross or something. You know, right? Don't say then that the Cabinet of Ministers is completely out of control by the President's Office. As far as the bill itself is concerned. This is a very good initiative that will actually help our investors and businessmen finally have adequate protection, because it is possible to determine in advance jurisdiction and not to go to the Ukrainian court, so that we have more chance of protecting ourselves. In doing so, the GNEU has a number of important observations that do not fully cover its own jurisdiction to meet the convention. So now we're voting yes and we're working on the second reading. And as for the government, well, you can tell us that we have just a presidential government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u232	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u233	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Our colleague said that we should vote as quickly as possible because the bill is important. We confirm. The Trust MP Group also consulted with the Association of Employers of Ukraine, with business associations. We really heard from them the requirement to create all the necessary conditions. When there's an object, let's say, of economic or civil dispute legislation, and of choice of jurisdiction, of choice of venue, it's very important, it's convenient. And the written agreement between the parties is exactly the way to deal with the issue. So we will vote, especially considering that this bill, once again, is implemented with international law. And it's very important and comfortable.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u234	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u235	Sobolje, Fatherland. No doubt our faction will support this bill. We voted when the ratification of the convention was considered in June, and our faction supported it. But I absolutely agree with several previous speakers that the issue is unfortunately not in the choice of court. Question: Why do our citizens have to address the right to choose a court, including outside Ukraine? Because, unfortunately, in the Ukrainian courts, they can't find the truth, and that's just a waste of time confirming that we have to go from words to action to actual judicial reform, not the simulation that has been done in recent years. So our faction takes the first step. Undoubtedly, we will make some key suggestions, taking into account the warnings that were provided by law. But now this bill needs to be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u236	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Convention on Agreements for the Choice of Courts (Registration No. 5120). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:47:45]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues of activity of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration number 5850). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:48:15.]] For 249 Decision taken. Danilo Alexandrovich, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? The bill concludes the reform of the first level of the banking system. If you open and read the text of the bill, it will seem like a fairly technical bill. What's up? The internal organization of the National Bank of Ukraine and the relationship between the Council of the National Bank and the Government of the National Bank, the interaction of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine, the management of the gold reserve and other matters of the National Bank of Ukraine. But this bill on the independence of the National Bank. The independence of the National Bank is not just a principle. The independence of the National Bank is to ensure the constitutional function of the National Bank in ensuring the stability of the national currency. This is to ensure the stability of the national currency outside the political influence, outside corruption, outside the system of government. And that allows us, you and I, to increase the number of deposits since 2019. We have an increase of 200 billion deposits in the 20th year, by 73.5 billion this year. Increase the stability of the banking system. In two years, only two banks have been declared insolvent. The liquidity of the banking system also increases and increases the profitability of the banking system. Three years of banking is profitable. And also reinstating credit. Credit revolving, and we see these figures by the age of 21. So it's a law about people, it's a law about customers of banks, it's about banking stability, it's about the prosperity of our state. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u238	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u239	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is on draft Ukrainian Law No.5850, introduced by the national deputy of Getmantz and others. The purpose of the bill is very clear. We have a signed memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and we made these commitments. And thank you very much to the copyright team that settled all our obligations in the bill. This bill required the National Bank to be concluded by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. He's positive. You have this conclusion in your papers. Also a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Finance. And so our committee, in view of the above, has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 5850 in the first reading on the basis of shortening the deadline for amendments and proposals by half. I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u240	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u241	Please give my word to my colleague Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u242	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading, and we will ask for a number of important points to come up with. But, you know, I'd like to draw your attention to two very important points. First. I was very pleased to hear now from the head of the profile committee, who praised the reform of the banking system for President Dustenk. Because it is the stability of the banking system that was established in the days of Dustykenka that has allowed the stability of the banking system to be maintained today. And in fact, you know, in the presentations of the Green Team, sometimes I find some very interesting moments that I wanted to draw your attention to today. For example, one of Zelensky’s representatives said that we have economic indicators of Belarus, macro indicators, much better than in Ukraine. You know, I didn't go down to check and look at the World Bank data. Indeed, since 2000, GDP per capita in Belarus, its dynamics, has been much better than in Ukraine, it is true. And you know when Ukraine got ahead of Belarus at that rate? For the economic policy of Peter Prashenko. But unfortunately, it fell again -- when, you know, one time, for Mr. Zelensky. This is from international experts. And the next. When the same Zelensky team says that in our country, not words, but work, we provide pensioners with the right standard of living, I think something's wrong. Because when the head of the Green Office says that every person has to count on himself, and the finance minister says that 40-year-olds, don't count on retirement, it seems to me that there is a real desire for your concern for pensioners. Therefore, respectable colleagues, we uphold the law. But learn the language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u244	Urban. Please turn on the microphone. Anatoly Igorovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u245	Please pass the word to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u246	Thank you. Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, I remember how you gave Nazbank superior authority. And I remember how this happened in this room. And the reason was banal: as if someone, there's a Colomoysky, who doesn't get his private bank assets back. But you went through all of this. And private banks continue to take billions of dollars out of this structure. So I don't understand why now that your Nazbank leaders are getting paid 400,000 dollars, 500,000 dollars, 300,000 dollars at a minimum pension there, they still have to stop working. First of all, you're violating the Constitution of Ukraine. Secondly, we now have Nazbank instead of ensuring the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit will achieve price stability. How's that? Where is it? And what stability, and at what prices? And who's going to do that? Who will appreciate it? Then instead of the balance of payments being the population of the ratio between the amount of cash revenue received by the country from abroad and the amount of payments made abroad over a period of time, that's going to be the population of economic transactions conducted between residents and non-residents. This will allow Nazbank's leadership to simply manipulate numbers, just to deceive us, including his reports here in the Supreme Council, from this rostrum. There's a lot more. For example, the proposal to exclude such a requirement from a member of the NBA Council as a permanent residence in Ukraine. That is, a member of the Nazbank Council may not live in Ukraine. So let's give our Natzbank to the United States or Europe at all. Why do we need him? Why do we need businesses? Why do we need our Kabmin? Let us move our Parliament there, and let them decide our fate and the fate of the Ukrainians. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u247	Nicolanca. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u248	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, you know, I thought there wasn't much to be afraid of in this room, and there are few things that can't be fixed. But this bill, frankly, scares me very much as a lawyer, as a person, as a citizen of Ukraine. It's definitely not technical, believe me, it's valuable, it's focused on whether we have a government body independent of politics, whether a government body is independent of us all, or not. Because I, you know, spent perhaps a hundred hours in five years on this rostrum, defending the independence of state institutions. But state institutions have to be independent from the influence of political groups, from the influence of oligarchs, from the influence of big money lobbyism, from the influence of big business, but they can't be independent of the country in general. In this same bill, you're actually depriving the country's leadership of everything and especially the government of any policy of the National Bank. That's impossible. It's not even about external management anymore, it's about fraud and the absence of any government. You also suggest that the Board of the National Bank remove the authorizations that are completely normal, which are on the boards of other banks. I mean, for commercial banks, they have these powers, and the National Bank Board won't have any of these powers. The National Bank no longer consults the government, does not report to the government. Why? Why? We asked it on the committee, and Mr. Gethmans asked it himself, we didn't get an answer. In addition, there are a number of situations that openly offend us and shock us. The requirement of permanent residence in Ukraine for a candidate for the Nitzbank Council is excluded. Who are you doing this for, my friends? Who doesn't live in Ukraine and wants to be a member of the NBU Council? The requirement of no jurisdiction for the Head of the NBA is excluded. Who are you doing this for? Why is it that we now have a man of justice who can be the Head of the National Bank? Friends, it's a strategic bill, it can't be worked out properly, it's basically a threat to the economic security of the state. Nazbank will no longer help economic growth in the country at all. These are very scary things. I'm asking you not to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u249	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u250	Please pass the word to Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u251	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The law isn't really about people, it's about external governance in the financial banking system. If you ever think that these are abstract things that the opposition frightens other MPs or Ukrainian citizens, it's not. Because there are clear rules in the draft law, what Schrum just said, for example, about the members of the National Bank Board. We have today the head of the Council of Nutzbanku Danilishin, an academic, a doctor of economic sciences, other council members, there's Furman, a doctor of economic sciences, Vasil Gorbal, Professor Kozuk of Ternopol. These are all the professionals who today, in my opinion, are worthy of representing Ukraine. Why give foreigners the opportunity to join the National Bank Board? In my view, it is a financial contribution to the banking system of national interests. It can't be, and our faction won't vote for this law, that's the first. And now here one of the first speakers actually told the truth. It was their team that was the founder of the destruction of the country's financial and banking system in 2014. In 2014, they set up fundamental, institutional tools for the degradation of the financial and banking system. What they call recovery -- actually the liquidation of banks of unfavourable financial competitors -- was 180 banks, now 72 banks. Healing and so forth will be said. And you go, ask the people, the investors, the bank lenders, how they cured the banking system. That's why this bill, I understand who's lobbying it, is people who are defending Ukraine's interests, not Ukraine's, but international financial structures. But let's look for a balance that will first stand for national interests. Please do not support this law as one that conflicts with the financial interests of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u253	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u254	Dear colleagues. Let's face it, the banking system has passed the test. It's the first crisis that we've had for two years that our bracelet didn't fall. You know, as they say, the bill on the board, you can see on the exchange board that there were 26-27, and there were 26-27 left. The number of loans that people can't pay goes down, too. This says that the banking system is working, the deposits are increasing. Most of all, I don’t remember the last two years having a bankruptcy. And that tells us that the normal banking system was really built. This law consolidates the status quo. He's, if only, talking about what the National Bank should do and not do populism. Yes, there's a note, yes. There is a second reading for this. That's why I think the bill needs, first of all, the Ukrainians, and it needs to be voted on in the first reading with a revision to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u255	Hetmans with motives. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u256	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind my colleagues to make a small prescription for the Constitution and the National Bank. And as for the core function of the National Bank, as defined in the Constitution, it is the stability of the national monetary unit, and the function with which the National Bank has managed this rather significant global financial crisis. And in order for this function to be performed, it's necessary to have the National Bank's independence. The independence of the National Bank is primarily from the Cabinet of Ministers, so that we do not repeat the error of hidden emissions in financing public budget expenditure. So that there is no pressure on the National Bank to cover expenses or to make decisions that do not meet the requirements of the stability of the monetary unit. To make sure that all citizens know that the bracelet is a stable, reliable currency and trust it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u257	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues of activity of the National Bank of Ukraine (register No. 5850). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:04:54]] For 283 Decision taken. I am betting on a proposal, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to cut the deadlines by half of the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5850). Please support and vote. [[14:05:35]] For 249 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 11 of the Law on Currency and Monetary Transactions (Registration No. 5851). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:06:09]] For 245 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, the point is that the bill and the idea, which we reported during the last discussion of the issue, consists of four bills. We can't make changes to the Monetary and Monetary Transactions Act by other laws other than the Law on Amendments to this Act. That is why the bill was divided into four normative acts, one of which amends the law. The law (open up, please) is very small and only applies to setting up banks to exchange information about their customers' accounts with nonresident bank accounts for the purpose of carrying out monetary supervision of their clients’ transactions through these banks. One norm, it's small. I offer to support this without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u259	The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u260	Your Honor, honourable national MPs, you have a proposal for Bill 5851. Absolutely correct, Mr. Danilo said, this is an integral part of the previous bill, because we need to make changes to the bill of profile. A very simple solution is that banks have to be agents of currency control. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 5851 in the first reading on the basis of a proposal to shorten the deadline for amendments and proposals from legislators by half. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, I've heard Danil Alexanderovich's proposal. No discussion? Are They Desirable? Danilo Alexandrovich, unfortunately, there are factions who want to discuss, or fortunately there are factions who want to discuss this bill. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two, two, no. The holy right of factions. The law is strict, but it's the law. I give the floor to the national deputy Stefanishini Olza Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u262	Please give my word to my colleague Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u263	The word is passed on to Roman Lozinski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, first of all, it is obvious that this bill is from a package of important initiatives within the framework of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. In fact, of course, settling all these foreign exchange transactions is an absolutely important technical issue that needs to be taken. But I would like to draw attention to something else, the way the President, the President's Office, the government with one hand are now offering positive initiatives, making them, Parliament is considering, but with another hand they're making the National Bank a hand-in-hand institution. An institution that they're trying to build in telephone law right now, just as they like to make officials in our country. I'd like to draw your attention to what happened to the National Bank at the end of the summer. Then, as they say, when the political season is quiet, on vacations, and at this point in time, it's not practical, and the entire government of licensing the banks of the National Bank's licensing department resigned. And I want to draw the attention of my colleagues here. Dear colleagues, voting for these positive standards now, supporting them in this room, working with the International Monetary Fund to have an adequate professional partnership, note this fact, note how the entire administration resigns, submits its applications for relief because of the fact that there is manual management, because of the fact that the National Bank wants to work in the telephone law regime. You can't let that happen. And initiatives, including those that appeared in this room, when they wanted to take a position or release specific individuals, such a handcuff should not pass. Attention, officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u265	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u266	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u267	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u268	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Clearly, this law is technical enough, this rule actually works and banks do it, it needs to be legitimized. But when we talk about this topic right now, we have to talk about economic policy and its consequences. Look, we're talking about the banking sector right now. And what is the situation with foreign direct investment in the state? I want to let you know that 2020 is a record year for 20 years of foreign direct investment outflow of almost $1 billion. It's a record in 20 years! During the war, the hottest stage of her life was not like this. Maybe it ended in the 20th year? Coronation, other. No, it's not. The first half of the 21st year is once again a net negative in terms of foreign direct investment. That's the result. And this is the judgment of this economic policy. And look at what happens at the same time in the consumer market. Here are the numbers from August 20th to August 21st: sugar is a 84 percent journey, sunflower oil is 79th, eggs 33th and so on, and so on. Dear Ukrainians, give me at least one area where Ukrainians have raised wages by 70 percent, 80 percent, or pensions. Well, of course, I don't count the envelopes that give out "Serial of the People" there is normal. But don't confuse your pockets. There's no such thing. There's no such thing. And that's why it's really hard for people today. What is the economic policy of this government? We don't even have the government's Action Programme approved. No one knows where the country is headed. Although if you look at the numbers, it's obvious: it leads to a chasm.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u269	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u270	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Polakov Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u271	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u272	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, some people here have been talking about the cure. So what I want to ask you is, what do we have now, Nazbank? So you've been running the country for two years, and Natzbank's addicted, and he's going to be independent here? And I want to ask you, Daniel, without calling your family. I'm opening your declaration. You're saying that the bracelet is an overpowered currency, and Nutzbank is doing his job. 10,000 dollars, 40,000 euros, 125,000 dollars, 35,000 euros, 108,000 euros, 228,000 dollars, 650 thousand dollars. Dear Ukrainians, one family owns $1.5 million. So go to Rescue, change the bracelet, and keep it in your bracelet if you have a very strong bracelet. And these bills that you keep pushing, they just don't deserve our attention. And stop confusing what is sinful and righteous. We're not going to support your bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u273	The word is given to national deputy Taruti Sergey Alexiyovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u274	Give it to Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u275	Nicolanca, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, Nicholas. You know, I'm surprised to see that so many deputies who, in principle, took place as individuals, like people who swore oaths to the people of Ukraine and are Ukrainian deputies, so much as allow themselves to be despised. I'm not going to call these three magic letters, which everyone knows very well who actually controls Ukraine. But that was at our committee meeting to consider this and the previous bill. This bill is more technical, it's not so principled. The previous one you already voted on is very principled. I'll give you an example of this bill, where you, the MPs who supported it, have humiliated yourself. In the previous Nazbank 4367 bill, which this Hall, the Supreme Council adopted in the summer, was a simple norm, it was my amendment, which was supported by the committee, then supported the 297-vote conference, and signed by the President, this law gained power. You know, it's simple: that a Ukrainian citizen, who is a member of the National Bank Board, exercises his powers before we don't define his successor if his term is even over. Simple correction is the continuity of power. We voted it, it became legal, it worked 12 days. Then comes this law, which clears it. And when I say, who's wrong? I'm sorry, who's the idiot? Are we on a profile committee or 297 deputies? Or the president who signed? Well, who's an idiot? Who told us that this should be changed? Have we seen in 12 days that this norm is not working? The answer is simple: it's the IMF's insistence. Why? IMF against having a full Board of National Banks? No, it's not. It's about running the state, and it's about running the Nutzbank, and it's about the dignity that you so like to talk about, about us, about Ukraine, about the Ukrainian National Bank. And you vote. It's an IMF law, it's not a Ukrainian law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u277	For reasons of interest, who would like to speak? Shahov, I see. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u278	It's just that my colleagues have been talking about the flow of investment into our country -- a billion dollars. Please tell me, who's going to put some money in here? When I, the Luhansk People's Deputy, am being approached by voters from 211 Kyiv District in connection with Park Avenue raiding, which is also being built by investors, and some of the bad guys are taking over this Park Avenue. Also about 100 million dollars of equipment and investment. And now your electorate is being scolded. "Serves of the people," you chose Kiev. So note 211 districts and order yourself, please, so that we can have investments in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u279	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 11 of the Law on Currency and Monetary Transactions on Banks' performance as currency supervisors (registration number 5851). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:19:04]] For-286 Decision taken. I'll bet the vote on the proposal. (Show by factions.) According to part two of article 116 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reduction of half the time limits for the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the draft Law, registration number 5851. Please support and vote. [[14:19:43]] For 254 Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code for the clarification of information provided by the National Bank of Ukraine for the preparation of the Budget Declaration (registration number 5853). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:20:20]] For 252 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, this is the third of a package of bills that concerns the one and the one issue that we're talking about today. And it's actually about the information relations between the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank of Ukraine among themselves in the preparation of the Budget Declaration and the draft budget for the following year. The budget is based on macro-predictive indicators prepared by the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, and this is defined by the Budget Code. So it's not really necessary for the National Bank to duplicate that information. At the same time, certain information that is available at the National Bank, which is being published by the National Bank, is being provided by the Cabinet of Ministers at its request because it is still being published on the National Bank's website. As I conclude my consideration of these three interrelated issues today, I would like to thank my colleague primarily for the attention raised to the declaration of my family and my family, which reflects the costs of which taxes have been paid in full, and which have been earned without any reference to authority as such in the past, where we have no relation to authority. And I wish you would do the same thing now. And I also want to answer my colleagues from another faction, who, unfortunately, during their previous cadence, led to the poverty of pensioners, led to the impoverishment of doctors, teachers, led to the poverty of a total one, from which we are gradually moving out of the country now. And we already have a minimum wage higher than in Russia than in Belarus than in Moldova. We already have an average pension of 25 percent. You and I have not been able to reduce our income in crisis, so let us be objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u281	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleni Eugene Copanczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u282	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered Bill 5853. I would like to point out that this bill is derived from Bill 5850 and amends article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which states that the National Bank of Ukraine provides the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers with the information necessary for the drafting of the Budget Declaration and the draft State Budget. At the same time, such information will be provided by Natzbank in an orderly manner. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Finance concludes with some remarks, the National Bank supports the bill. The Committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 5853, include in the agenda of the day’s session and the results of the first reading, by entrusting it to work on the proposals of the legislators and by submitting a second reading to the Supreme Council. Requesting the committee to shorten the time limits for filing the rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u283	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u284	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I give the word to Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u285	National deputy Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u286	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the Trust Group will support this important bill. But what I have heard from this rostrum today from our distinguished colleagues, from the "ministers of the people." That they have brought our country out of the poverty era. Is it at a time when families of ordinary miner's Day work are still sitting without paying 1 billion 700 million dollars?Oh, my God! This is when hospital bills are not paid today. This is when the sea of people is starving today, when they have been bankrupted practically and destroyed by the Naftogaz of Ukraine, and 19 billion have contributed debt to the execution. 12 billion dollars of debt and destruction of the railway in Ukraine Is that how Ukraine is getting out of its misery today? When $1 billion, $28 billion, is spent on direct investment in Ukraine. When the Lugansk region is destroyed, where the war is going. 22 billion dollars is the total loss caused by a direct governor who has not yet been replaced. The interim commission of inquiry investigated the fires in Luhansk and handed down a sentence. 319 national deputies voted in favour of removing the villain, the head of Hayday's military and civilian administration. And so far neither the Attorney General's Office nor any power agency is investigating these cases today, where 16 people have died. People are now pursuing suicide because they have not even paid for the damage to their homes by burning down. 80 families today run without shelter. Is that what you did today? Out of poverty today? Repent! You will have to repent literally in the next election.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u287	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u288	By fully supporting the previous reporter, I would still like to go back to the NBA Act. As far as this package of laws is concerned, all three laws are bound. My colleagues and I fully support them, including this Law Amendment to the Budget Code on what information the National Bank should provide. But I would like to draw attention to two things in this package of laws: one positive, one very positive, and one negative. As for the positive thing. Finally, one thing that, let's say, mixed the National Bank with being completely independent is that the National Bank is obliged to support the government's economic policy. In fact, no matter how controversial this may sound, it's the right thing to do. If you take the same United States, the Federal Reserve System and, for example, the Department of Commerce they shouldn't. The federal reserve system shouldn't support government policy, more than that, it might have another vision. They should have different perspectives and different objectives: for one goal -- economic growth, for another goal -- economic growth, unemployment and inflation balance. And this should also be at the National Bank of Ukraine. And this is finally rectified, so now the National Bank will become more independent. And the negative that might not allow the second reading to support this law is that this necessary package of laws has now moved the changes in the qualifications requirements to the Nazbank Council. Colleagues, I'm going to apply myself so that these changes don't take place. And if these changes aren't taken into account, I don't know how this package of laws can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u289	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u290	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u291	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill. Obviously, independence, the expertise of the National Bank today is part of Ukraine’s overall financial independence and stability. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I want to say hello to all of us from our faction: there are now students of the Cherka Physic-Mathematics List in the guest bed. I think it's the future, maybe the representatives of the National Bank. And we sincerely want all students today, students who want to be successful, to know very well the mathematics, the economy, and to have haircuts to be independent. Because there's a high-tech team in Nazbank today that knows the math and the economy perfectly well, but they're now under pressure by the authorities, so over 100 employees of the National Bank today have filed a release application. This is their position. It's a good thing they have it. This is very important, this is what the Supreme Council of Ukraine and many factions lack. So, dear students, I want to tell you as a cricket, be strong, smart, successful, learn math, language, economy and be independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u293	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. "Paternity," which one of you will it be? Sorry, Makarenko will. And who instead of Makarenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u294	Please pass on the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u295	Wait. Coltunovich? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Anton Eduardoovich, Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u296	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. As long as I was entrusted with the responsibility of free speech and the head of the Committee for Freedom of Speech, I worked for about 15 years on the Committee on Budgets. I can't imagine how budget policy can be shaped without the main indicators and forecasts of the National Bank of Ukraine? What are we doing now? We've already seen about 4 billion dollars in debt on wages. Please tell me how you can predict without data from the main financial institution of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine? When there is no course when there is no forecast, how can you do so? You're even going to gas, you're going to wave your middle-year-old hand at the cost of gas, because you just don't understand it and you can't form it. So, dear fellows, I'm asking you to be shocked, be responsible and professional. I know, but it's enough to build, people call it not Big Building, it's Big Stealing. And judging by what anti-corruption authorities say that you haven't taken control of yet, they're talking about crazy abuses and thefts on "The Great Construction." I don't mind building schools, I don't mind building kindergartens, I'm in charge of developing infrastructure. But why could Kipa build all of Ukraine's roads for a billion dollars in a bracelet, and now you're 5 billion with State guarantees, actually a cat under a tail, and you're stealing money. People already say where the roads are? Where are the roads that the nation's health money is spending, the money from our children? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u297	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u298	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MPs for the Future. You know, it's very funny to hear from the Millionaire's "Serve of the Nation" actually a dollar, yes, about the poverty of our people and the fact that our past power has led to something. So you have in your government, in your Office of the President, in fact, half the people in your last government, these two years. What now, do you show up with them for one thing? About your bill. You know, in an army anecdote, "when the flag tells its subjects, dig here, and I'll go, find out where to dig." And here's the bill. We will not know, and there will be no responsibility in Nutzbank for their further work, for the results of their work. And for example, let's think about the same pyramid of OCHA that has a lot of you, and including those who are sitting in the President's Office and in the Kabmin, it wasn't pressure on Nazbank, it's okay, it's all going on or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u299	Dear colleagues, does anyone else want to? He wants to. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko is motivated. Who else will it be? Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u300	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This bill, on the one hand, is derived from two previous ones, and it seems to be technical, because according to it, the National Bank has to submit forecast revenue to the state budget, which it will provide as the revenue of the state budget for a three-year period. Since the budget declaration is for three years. It's not a problem, it might technically need to be corrected, but the key problem is in the two previous laws -- in the laws that essentially made the National Bank so that it's derived from the sphere of government of the Ukrainian State, the National Bank will no longer be governed by Ukraine today, it won't be controlled by the Ukrainian State. And I believe that those two bills for which the "Fatherland" faction has not voted make Ukraine more dependent than it is, and make Ukraine run by the outside. We think that the National Bank is the National Bank, it has to be independent, and it has to be completely in the sphere of governance of the Ukrainian State, because it has to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u301	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian budget. Ukraine’s budgetary code for clarifying information provided by the National Bank of Ukraine for the drafting of the Budget Declaration (registration number 5853). Please support and vote. [[14:37:19]] For 298 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on that. In accordance with Article 116 of Part Two of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half of the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading of the bill (Registration No. 5853). Please support and vote. [[14:37:57]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve pension legislation (registration number 4668, 4668-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:38:34]] For 248 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to attend. And while the issue is being considered, please contact the heads and authorized factions of the factions for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u302	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! To your attention, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of pension legislation (registration number 4668), developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposes that, as of January 1, 2022, the Act of the Ukraine "On mandatory State Pension Insurance" should include the date of the indexation of pensions on March 1, as it was before. This will allow the legislative setting of the date of the pension index and the possibility of ensuring the planned formation of the Pension Fund’s expenditure for appropriate purposes, the restoration of the pension index to individual categories of pensioners, namely, military, scientific, local government officials and civil servants, and the restoration of the right to a retirement period of 1.5 years in connection with the restructuring of enterprises. The bill also provides support for parents whose children have severe rare diseases, who have not been diagnosed with disability through the appointment of a early retirement pension, and the establishment of a single approach to determining the amount of promotions for a later retirement, depending on the date of their retirement. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u303	Thank you. The word is given to the author of an alternative bill to the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Royal Natalia Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u304	Dear colleagues, the honourable ones present, well, that's a very relevant question. I think there is no doubt that today one of the most affected categories of people in our country are pensioners. Well, you can't survive on 2,000 bucks, that's impossible. And what the government is doing is pretending that nothing is happening, and today it's introducing a very pointy bill on this issue -- well, apart from indignation, it's not causing anything else. Unfortunately, the quality of this bill is so low that there are a number of legal and, in fact, antisocial norms in this project. So we urge you to vote in favour of an alternative bill where we have clearly defined the categories of people, how today we can really index the pension, how we can give people a year and a half before retirement, how we can protect military pensioners today. And what the government has proposed is to continue the abuse of pensioners. And I also want to emphasize that today thousands of people have come under the walls of Parliament. And one of the issues that people raise around the country is the issue of pension indexation and the review of the pension reform that destroys people's dignity today. Therefore, we urge Parliament to join forces to resolve this issue in order to index people’s real pensions in order to give people the opportunity to live rather than survive today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u305	The word is given to the co-reporter, to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u306	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights considered the bill of March 11, this year. There are four things in the bill that I think the whole room will vote for. First. This is the first time in Ukraine that the index date is set by law – March 1. In the past, it was up to Kabmin to set that date. The other one. The indexation is being updated to those categories where the indexation of pensions was withdrawn by previous authorities in previous years. This is the indexation of pensions for military personnel, the indexation for government officials, and other categories that have not been indexed. Third. A permanent pension is granted, as it was before, to those who lost their jobs within a year and a half before reaching retirement age if the enterprise is reorganized. And then there's the fourth. Finally, an early retirement is granted to mothers whose children are not diagnosed with disabilities, and they suffer from rare diseases called orphan diseases. The committee, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, calculated the cost of the bill, which will require 2 billion 769 million dollars. And in order for us to be able to adopt this law in the next year's budget, the committee proposes to support the bill, to adopt it on a basis, and to shorten the deadlines for the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u307	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u308	Please give it to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u309	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u310	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, in fact, this bill is called upon to resolve the issue of the pension provision of a certain kind of population, not all pensioners, but all pensioners. I have a question about tens of millions of people who are really on the verge of survival. When I see, for example, the financial justification of this bill, "minors of the people," which seems to be projected to increase GDP by 4.3 percent, which will affect the increase and the coming of the budget, I have a question: and when I proposed my own bill to make the minimum pension the same as the minimum wage minimum, which is normal, it's normal, it's normal, it's a social committee, it's just forgotten. Because I understand that we don't have pensioners living in our country, right? Because how can you live on a minimum pension that is less than a living minimum? So you're going to make them starve to death, that they won't be able to pay the utility bill on your tariffs, that you voted for, that your government voted for, that you didn't want to cancel, that pension you gave them. And what do you say about poverty after that? So, my friends, of course, this bill, it doesn't decide everything, we'll support it. But I have a lot of questions. Because in the summer, they were paid to retirees over 75 years of age, but our government, even though tens of billions of dollars are used for Big Construction, they didn't find a few billion dollars for these payments. And I have a question: are they going to find out if they're billions of dollars, even a few, at least for those pensioners? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u311	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u312	Eutushka, Fatherland. Please pass the word to your colleague Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u313	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u314	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, at last the social laws in this room, and finally we are going to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2018, where we are fully renewing the act of that law that was stressed on the night of the 14th year. I'm glad we're renewing our annual pension index from March. That's normal, but please tell me, why 50 percent? Why not all 100 percent, as it was before the 14th? It's a "milk," but believe me, for pensioners who now live less than we have a real living minimum, believe me, it's a colossal cost. Let's take that into account for the second reading. I'm glad that we're restoring the standard where we're going to assign early retirement to people who've been out in a year and a half. We've had cases like this. Colleagues, a fairly normal norm, where we will assign early pensions to mothers and parents of children with severe and rare diseases, who are still disabled. Colleagues, let's correct and give more social laws to us. By the way, we're recalculating pensions to journalists, scientists, local government officials. I think we're going to add the best rules of alternative law to this basic law. Although, frankly, the alternative law is more complex and systemic, and you always do, you adopt your laws, but finally, even though the social laws in this room and the restoration of the Constitutional Court's direct decisions on pensioners. Fatherland supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u315	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u316	Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Please give Arthur Gerasimov the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u317	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u318	Dear Ukrainians, of course we will support this bill, but the issue is not in support of the Pensions Act, but in the succession of government in the matter of pensions. The annual automatic indexation of pensions was introduced and carried out on March 1st for Dusty 42 by article of the relevant profile law in the 16th edition. What is required of Zelensky? Just don't cheat pensioners and raise their pensions on time without breaking the law. Instead, Zelensky’s government is stealing money from pensioners. Last year, more than 8 million pensioners were indexed in May, i.e. the authorities actually stole more than 4 billion dollars from pensioners in March/April. Similarly, for two months this year, nearly 3 million working pensioners were held up for indexation. Where are they stealing from? That's right, for the Great Stealing Program and for the 20-30-50 MPs' bribe program, which journalists wrote about. Journalists estimate that in the 20th year alone, they spent 120 billion dollars on grand theft, and they built and repaired about as many as 40 billion dollars. Interestingly, the price at the same time is for Zelensky's posters, which are all over the country, or the 40% interest rate that investigative journalists are talking about? As I go back to retirement, I want to stress that the formula of indexation should not only take into account the size of the average wage, but also the level of real inflation, as our team put it. Because when gas prices go down in a year, when prices go down in light, prices go down, and subsidies go down, it's not about protection, it's about poverty for the poorest. So "European Solidarity" suggests using the 2.7 billion dollars donated to the IMF, including the Thirteenth Pension programme presented by Peter Poroshenko on the Conciliation Council, so that the pensioners will receive additional funds in November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u319	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich. Don't insist, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u320	Please give Natalie to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u321	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that many people in this room have never received a pension before. Government, why are you kidding? When I was a minister -- there was an index when Papiev was a minister -- on March 1st was an indexation when Denisova was a minister -- on March 1st was an indexation, and now we say a new norm. But this is not a new norm, and this is a norm that has always worked in Ukraine. That's the first one. And you were supposed to do this index on March 1st, not bully people today. The other one. You're telling us that you're going to have to set an additional condition for a pension in a year and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already won the Constitutional Court, and you should not impose additional conditions on people, and you should just let a person retire in a year and a half. What do you suggest? That a person should register with the State Employment Service and in the absence of work suitable for him, only then will he get the right to retire. Why are you still bullying people? The next most interesting rule in this bill. The Kabin does not index pensions to military pensioners. Why are you making fun of me? They're military, they're protecting our country. You also motivate the military today, but they see how you treat those who protected the country five, 10, 15 or 20 years ago. That's why you can't do that. Either create conditions and protect pensioners, enforce a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, or make enough money on people who receive 2,000 dollars of pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u323	Thank you. The railroad is motivated. Then let's move on to. Oh, my God, did Yvchenko say you're holding your hand?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u324	Dear colleagues, let's be very simple about what this bill is about. Two things. The first is to make sure that the pension index takes place on 1 March. Don't let the Kabmin in manual mode stop her. The second is to secure the indexation of military pensions. Again, so that Kabmin doesn't save on our military. And the third is the return of some pensions, i.e. the increase in pensioners. Considering that the Ministry of Finance has recorded several billion expenses there, I think it's precisely for this bill to vote if this money goes to pensioners. But I want to go to the head. Dear colleagues, we have paid $190 billion in the budget to the Pension Fund. We have a problem with the Pension Fund. The problem is that we have bad labour legislation. The problem is that we have a lot of taxes on work. If we really want to get a normal situation after a few years in the pension system, it's now, and it's our obligation, to change the pension system, and all the more change in labor taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u325	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u326	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear colleagues, now probably every pensioner has a lot of questions in general to the Pension Fund and to the pension system itself. This bill does not fully address the tasks that our pensioners would like to have our state decide on. Instead of a few indices, as stated in the current legislation, we are offered an annual one-time index of pensions for our pensioners. Hence, pensioners have more questions than the answers to this bill. However, the operating system needs to be changed. We will support this bill in the first reading. We will definitely work with you on the second reading. "Trust" votes in favour of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u327	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of pension legislation (registration number 4668). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:56:32]] For 317 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on the reduction of the half-life of the application of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill of registration number 4668. Please support and vote. [[14:57:07]] For 298 Decision taken. Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, there have been three allegations that the button didn't work. This is a statement by the People's Deputy of Ionushas under Bill 5851. Ask me to count the vote for it. Then National MP Zabranna under Bill 5853, by analogy. And the National MP Tkachenko under Bill 5852. And 5851.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-09-m0.u329	I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, Your Honor.
