ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please contact the leaders of the MP factions and groups for a moment. Dear colleagues, good afternoon, again! According to part of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, requiring more than 150 Ukrainian national deputies to consider the draft Decree (Registration No. 5272) to amend the calendar schedule for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you that registration, Sergey Volodymyrovich, as always, takes place by pressing the green button or the first left button, using the sensory button. Request to hold until the registration results are fixed. Are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[13:33:05]] There are 293 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. I understand she's not going to be alone. Yeah? Three minutes, please. Who's speaking, Herasimov? To the rostrum, who will be speaking? Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m1.u2	Dear fellow countrymen! Over the past few weeks, key world media outlets have released reports of a failure of specialization in the detention of "vagners". The main question: Is Ukraine able to investigate the matter itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please respect each other. Please remove your banner. Dear colleagues, be normal in your dealings with your colleagues. Thank you. Continue your time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m1.u4	That's what we're saying, but only by creating a parliamentary TSC. Why is this important? First, if the guilty remain unpunished, they will continue to create preconditions for the spilling of State secrets right into the Kremlin. Secondly, the truth needs to be established not only to restore the trust of Western partners, but also to punish the guilty. It was this trust that was struck suddenly and unmotivated by the collapse of the special operation. And thirdly, Wagner's PVC is a terrorist group that does the most dirty work for Putin's regime in all parts of the globe, and our Ukrainian Donbas is not an exception. The criminal group was planning to detain two terrorists involved in the defeat of Malaysia's Boeing MN-17 and two military-transport aircraft. Within hours of the successful arrest of war criminals, a likely mole in Ukraine’s military leadership guaranteed freedom to these murderers and the destruction of another piece of evidence, personally Putin, against Ukraine. We stress that the establishment of the Parliamentary TSC and the establishment of the truth in this matter are a major issue of national security, which must unite all without excluding the deputies present in this room, without taking into account party membership.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! Today, there is intense pressure on all participants in this special operation, and in parallel, the authorities want to create another TSC that they want to bury, and they want to bury this TSC and the truth under a variety of tasks. The sequence of these actions shows that no one wants to tell people the truth. We demand that, by voting our TSC 4105, Parliament once and for all show that we are protecting all those who stand in the defense of our state. We must show this to the people and show the next parliament that we will protect our defenders. We demand that we vote on our Decree 4105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, there are still willing to speak, are there not? Did he say no more about a break with a replacement for a performance? Dear colleagues, let's move on to the first question of the agenda. You have been invited to consider a draft regulation amending the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 5272). Ready to vote? No discussion, yes. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:38:02]] For 298 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the required number of signatures for the non-commissioned meeting, the next non-commissioned meeting. An order will now be prepared, and we will begin with a request not to depart. This is the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that I declare closed.
