ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! In response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations today, we are holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You are presented with a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. Dear fellow Members, please prepare for electronic registration. I'm reminded that once the registration is started, you need to touch the sensor button by holding the sensor button to the green pros button and keeping these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, i.e. until the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u2	Beautiful. People's deputies please register. [[14:01:19]] There are 99 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, one second, I'm the ceremonial part first. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine, John Ivanovich Krulk. Let's say hello! [[Applause]] Ivan Ivanovich, strong health to you, parliamentary landings and all the goods we wish! Dear colleagues, before we begin our consideration of the issues, a statement came from two MP factions asking for a break with a replacement for the performance. Who will perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u3	Dear Ukrainians! The following week, a year comes when the Greens Office has leaked information about the operation of Ukrainian special forces in the custody of Russian terrorists from the Vagner Air Force. During this year, Zelensky went a long way from lying, as if an operation were a fiction, to a pretense that the operation was not simply an operation, and that he had personally warned Lukashenko about something there. But in a year, we never got close to the main answer: who is the Russian mole? Although it is the secret of Polyshinel for most Ukrainians who are conscious. And even when the opposition demanded the establishment of a TSC in Parliament to investigate this treason, Greensky's "ministers" initially pulled time and then created a smoke curtain along with a "fifth column". There are no representatives of the pro-Ukrainian opposition in this smoke TSK because the investigation of the collapse of the "vagnerian special operation" does not refer to its sphere of knowledge, it is not officially prescribed. And in general, according to Ukrainian journalists, in July and December 20th, seven Ukrainian intelligence operations were shut down, resulting in the deaths of Ukrainian citizens. And while three dozen Ukrainian murderers remain at large, the Ukrainian authorities have dropped off to play battle general Igor Pavlovsky, one of the key commanders in the defense of Mariupol. Similarly, the authorities have held Valeria Chandra, the sole leader of the defence company in Ukraine, who was able to build modern battle boats for the Armed Forces. Caters that had completely set Zelensky up, when they could be ploughed in the background, and which suddenly became missing, had to distract Ukrainians from economic failures, international politics, record tariffs, lack of subsidies, middle - class taxes, and widespread corruption. This trend follows all two years of the Zelensky presidency. The authorities are systematically persecuting war generals, veterans, volunteers, patriots -- everyone who broke Putin's plans in 14-15. Clearly, this degradation is seen by our allies. Journalists say that Western partners no longer provide as unreservedly divorcised as they were for Dustenka, including the use by the Bank of Ukrainian Intelligence to kidnap Judge Chaus from the territory of friendly Moldova. This led not only to the reputational loss of Ukraine but also to the strain of Zelensky’s and Sandu’s relationship, which calls for answers to unpleasant questions. All of these are chains of one chain where Zelensky wants to take us away from NATO and the EU, although this is a direct violation of article 102 of the Constitution. Sadly, Zelensky is not used to violating the Constitution and all methods of usurping power. It's a fresh example when Banka pushed the "hand" of the D.B.I. against the Supreme Court, because there was a confession that Zelensky broke the law. And instead of going as promised, he's using law enforcement to pressure judges, because he doesn't like their decision. Zelenski took another step towards the "lukashenction" of Ukraine. I understand that his faction, which helps him in this, is very much in the modern regime of Belarus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, who have come from two factions, have also requested a recess with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Larissa Bilozer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, the presiding lord, the honourable Ukrainians! Larissa Bilozer, Trust MP, Winnitzkin, 15th constituency. We, the People's Deputies of the Trust Group and the House of Deputies for the Future, are approached by sick, oncological people who haven't been able to get their hospitals for months. In fact, hundreds of people throughout Ukraine today have faced this problem. The MOH has already collapsed three purchases, on a basic basis, of forms to pay for people’s incapacity. It's actually, I don't know, it's really grossness of officials from the MOH who absolutely can't argue why they haven't been able to conduct tenders for six months. Instead, in the Winnitsk region today, 30,000 people are onc sick, sick, pregnant, unable to get paid in hospitals. We have a situation today that instead of these forms, they are given completely misunderstood information that is no longer considered by law to be the way the State should pay the money. What should these people do today? Almost all over Ukraine since April, this problem is no matter whether you have undergone surgery or are giving birth to a child, there is no disability note. The Departments of Education have been calling a lot of times, the National Deputies of the Majority, and I've been to the MOH three times before, and we're just getting blank reprimands and write-offs. In fact, MOH officials are completely cut off from their lives, and they're not interested, they say since September 1st, the electronic hospital system is running. What about those who were ill before September 1st, and what to do to those doctors who say that the electronic health system actually works once in a while? Some statements need to be introduced, even if you have been vaccinated, after half an hour, the doctors remain to enter the data. And so, when you cover up dijitalization, you just use people. What do we have in hospitals today? The NHRI systematically changes, every day the demands for contracts, the medics have already dropped their hands, they're constantly on their feet, and they're just shocked that they're constantly underpaid. I call on my colleagues to contact the Prime Minister and to order those officials in general and to conduct audits of the National Health Service and the ILO and their inaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me remind you that today Muslims around the world are celebrating one of their main festivals of Kurban Bayram. So let us welcome our colleagues and especially the Muslims to Ukraine with this beautiful holiday. Also, noble colleagues, I want to do it before we move on to a meaningful meeting of ours. Now, one second, I'm not finished if you don't mind. In accordance with article 60 with the prime badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Constitutional Reform and Effective Authority". The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyyovich, Frolová Pavel Valeriyovich, Kornienka Aleksandra Sergiyovich, Upper Victoria Valentinovna, Klecka Andrija Andryovich. Today, 283 deputies are already part of the union – the largest interfractional parliamentary union, so I would like to ask you to join my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. From the procedure? Please, who's with the procedure, Puziczuk? Andrew Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I also welcome, on behalf of our faction, our colleague John Ivanovich Krulk with his birthday. I want him to be in good health, to be able to carry out what he or she wants, and to do what is best for him and his family. Ruslan Alexiyovich, but what's going on today's meeting. In accordance with the Rules, colleagues consider the bill not only for adoption, but for consideration to be carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In line with article 47 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council decides by a majority of the votes of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition, and a similar position is enshrined in 91 articles of the Constitution. Today, we see that there are only 99 deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, we cannot now consider draft regulations, because the procedure for adoption by the Supreme Council of Laws involves not only pressing the button during the vote, but also the procedure for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u8	Thank you. I would like to point out to you that in 1994 alone there was an article 4.5.2 in the Supreme Council Rules that clearly regulated the relationship, the possibility of holding a meeting, depending on the quorum. After that, neither in the Rules of 2006 nor in the Rules of 2008 nor in the Rules of 2010 that we are currently using, there is no dependence on the powers of the Supreme Council as to the number of deputies that are in place. So I am grateful for your reply, but please accept this argument. Thank you. So let's move on to the issues that we're considering. Dear colleagues, the registration number is proposed for your consideration. draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to re-adopt in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine (registration number Order 3711-d-P2). I report that the regulation is being considered for a reduced procedure and without a vote is included in the agenda in accordance with part nine of article 48 of the beloved Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite a reporter. Yes, I've been told he's not here, but the author of the decision is the Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. I can't invite him, so I invite a co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Kalchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u9	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to re-adopt in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine to amend the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine (registration number of the draft Decree 3711-d-P2). This draft Decision proposes to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council which I have issued, since, according to the author of the draft Decree in the explanatory note, this law has been adopted in violation of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. The committee reached a conclusion on this draft decision (registration 3711-d-P2) and decided to recommend to Parliament that it be decided by vote on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u10	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, will the question be discussed? It will be. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Nemiri Grigori Mikhajlovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u11	Please pass the word to your colleague Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u12	Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u13	Dear friends! Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. The very consideration of this issue, which took place in the sessional room, and especially the second reading, when each second amendment dealt with clear warnings regarding the violation of specific articles of the Constitution that regulate the work of the body, I think is the best argument that, in fact, this bill could not only have been signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, but it could not even be considered, the relevant decision had to be adopted by the committee of profile. Unfortunately, though, we have lost a lot of time, not one day of work to consider a worthless bill in its essence that violates the relevant articles of the Constitution. That's the question, I think, today is the key to consideration. Why, in fact, did the relevant decisions arise, and why should our session room, in effect, point out that in the future, the institutions whose powers are directly governed by the Constitution of Ukraine should never go beyond the Constitution of Ukraine? The key question is: how will this body continue to exercise its powers, considering that the law in question, if it becomes law and becomes effective, has every chance of being accused before the Constitutional Court? And I think it's not too soon before the Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutionality of individual provisions, but perhaps the whole law as a whole. So our faction is asking for the support of this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u14	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. The word is given to the People's Deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u15	Please pass the word to your colleague Lubintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u16	Dmitri Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u17	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will not vote in favour of this draft decision. We voted in favour of this law, we believe that the reform of the courts in Ukraine must be done. Obviously, Parliament made its proposals, then added the President's proposals. We voted for it. We believe that when the level of trust in the courts in Ukraine is 1.3 percent of our citizens, it is certainly necessary for Parliament to do something about it. And we're doing this as part of our mandate, we've voted in favour of this law. That is why we will not vote in favour of this decree. And I would also like to draw the attention of all the national deputies and presiding officers that we have had a bad practice, honorable national deputies. We have an emergency meeting today. Why are we so few? What example do we set for our citizens? When no one comes to work, there's responsibility, they're even fired. How did we get so many national deputies after the 2019 elections under the assumption that everyone should go to work where the national deputies are? We're showing an example that we're majors, we've worked in the districts, we've worked in the hall, we've worked in the hall. 99 national deputies present. And here we are supporting colleagues who said, how can we vote for anything today? Well, it's clear to everyone that 226 isn't even in the session room. But, nevertheless, we work, we show for Ukrainian citizens that Parliament cannot work effectively, unfortunately. And we think of it as national MPs from the Party for the Future, that this kind of practice needs to be stopped, the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u18	The word is given to the national deputy. People's Deputy Irina Volodymyrski Heratschenko, please, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u19	Dear Ukrainians, today is the anniversary of the murder of journalist Paul Sheremet. Almost two years ago, President Zelenski, along with the Minister of Internal Affairs, and the ex-procurator, was declared a murderer at a press conference without trial and investigation, breaking the fate of several people. Today, we honor Paul Sheremet’s memory. We're looking forward to an honest investigation so that not the shooters are responsible for such terrible crimes, but they're actually involved in the murder of a journalist. Of course, there must be fair investigation and an honest independent court on such complex matters. The independence of the court today is at great risk. So let me remind you what kind of aggressive green team activity started with. It is by trying to destroy the independence of the reformed Supreme Court, which remains the last hope for tens of thousands of Ukrainians. After the Supreme Court pointed out to a person who should be a guarantor of the Constitution the violation of the Constitution at the time of the decree, unlawfully absolutely, of the release of Mr. Tupicko. And I'm going to remind you that it was the Green Team that appointed Mr. Tupick as Head of the Constitutional Court, because that's what went wrong. But this does not give Greene any reason to break the Constitution. We have seen an absolute cynical disregard for the judges of the Supreme Court and the pressure on their independence from the guarantor of the Constitution and the Office of the President, which will actually have very serious consequences. What else did you do? You've basically destroyed the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges for two years. And today we have thousands of courts that are understaffed. There's no one to work there. And there's a lot of pressure on the judges. That's what your incompetence, your underreforms, your desire to actually run the Parliament not only with the President's Office and the Cabinet of Ministers, but also with the judiciary. We from European Solidarity are not going to let you do that, and we're not going to let you do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u20	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u21	It is sad that we cannot now hear David of Arahama’s talk. So I will now ask my colleague Jaroslav Jurczyn to present his position on these orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u22	Please, Jaroslav Jurchisin. Even though it's a miracle to me that Arachami is already in the Voice? Or what? Please, Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u23	The Rules can be passed on to anyone in the room. And that's why we would, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u24	Anyone present.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u25	Yes, anyone in attendance. I want to point out that the leader of the largest faction of initiators is not actually present. But what's more, we're about to be eliminated from the Kyiv District Administrative Court. The reform of constitutional justice, or constitutional procedure, awaits us. Both laws are extremely important. At that time, we're just spending time, money and money to unpredictably block judicial reform. We break these orders and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else would? A duck from the Servant of the People, please. And then we go to the vote. Ah, another Shahov, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u27	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear friends, respectable people of Ukraine! Now you see how the old political system is undergoing the changes that are being introduced by President Greens and the "Serve of the People" party. Because they're now gathering an emergency session, knowing that they're spending millions of taxpayers' expenses. Because their decisions will not be voted on. Because they understand that judicial reform is necessary, but they want to preserve that old corrupt system so that the judges can take bribes. They want matters as before to be remembered, followed by judges to go and settle matters with them. It won't happen again. We're behind a transparent reform of the judicial system. And we're not going to let you preserve that corrupt court system that is now there. Therefore, we reject all decisions. And you should be ashamed of what you spend during the COVID, during the war, the taxpayers' money for the meaningless extracurricular sessions of the Supreme Council! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u28	The word is given to national deputy Sergei Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u29	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, be quiet. The strongest, the wisest, the most responsible, right, Mrs. Irina. I want to support my colleague, Larissa Bilozore, for the reason that today there are no payments made to hospitalized people with cancer who have heart disease, to the vessels of disease, to some unscheduled tender, to the money that the officials are fighting and looting the state budget. We're here on reform, so please tell me that pension reform is going to break down, and people are getting higher today -- living standards that way for a year even more. Today, we are on the brink of judicial reform. Schools are closed throughout the country in the wake of educational reform. The full House of People's Deputies, we make decisions. Our group is ready to work every day, 28 hours a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to re-adopt in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine of the Act amending the Law on Sudokustry and the Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine regarding the renewal of the work of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine (registration number 3711-d-P2). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[2:26:02]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next draft of the ruling. Dear colleagues, the draft Decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act on the specialities of the reform of the defence and industrial complex of state ownership (registration number three of Decrees 3822-P, 3822-P1 and 3822-P2). I would also like to point out to you that in accordance with article 48, part nine, this issue is being considered under a reduced procedure. I invite the author of the first decree of the Ukrainian National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u31	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, it is a pity that we did not vote in favour of this issue in short notice. In fact, what does the Ordinance on the Cancellation of the Law on the Specialities of Reforming the Military Industrial Complex of State Property? Surprisingly, the drafter of this bill was not the President as the Supreme Commander, not the government that manages and manages this concert, but the individual people's deputies. By the way, they have the right to legislative initiative. They're probably experts in this area. What is this law about? Since 2014, there has been a war in the state. It's Ucroborprom as a state concert called to provide the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations with weapons, ammunition, special technology, etc. What's the bill about? To do so, the authorities are looking for an investor. After almost two and a half years of management of this concert, change of management and.. For the sake of justice, there are enterprises in the Ucroborprom, which are state-owned enterprises, which are successful owners, where managers in their jobs are performing state defence orders. There is another category of businesses that are harmful. But it's not about dissipation, it's about how effectively the government manages these managers. We think it's unacceptable that this clearly borders with the betrayal of the national interests of the state when we give away during the war to any foreign or any investor these state-owned enterprises. and about the execution of the state military order. Please support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u32	Thank you, Michael Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I invite you to welcome the author of the following draft decision of the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenka Vadim Evgenović. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u33	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Regrettably, some of the speakers do not know the Constitution and do not know the rules of the Supreme Council. It is the legislative right of a member of the Supreme Council to make decisions and speak in their defence. And this is a complete disrespect for the deputies and leadership of the Supreme Council, when they know that there are no people, to assemble an extraordinary meeting. This is a complete disrespect for the President of Ukraine, who today is called upon by the Supreme Council, where there are only 99 deputies and perhaps almost fewer. This is a complete disrespect to you because we have declared that we are going to work, and we have not yet gone on vacation, colleagues, the vacation will begin in just a week. And here's the problem, though, is that we're adopting legislation that doesn't suit national interests. Well, who was in the room discussing how to run corporate governance in stockholder societies, especially if it's a defence-military complex in Ukraine. What should be the people in the oversight councils? What will they have access to state secrets? Do these people have to be cut off from the state, or is this in accord with the national interests of Ukraine? How will they then answer to the country for their defenses if they show bad results, like in Ukrenergo, Ukrenergo, etc.? Here are the colleagues: there is no discussion, no understanding, laws are passed and printed, most of which do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. And besides, disrespect for you and me, there are some who sit in the hall and try to stand up for positions, including party positions, and some who are somewhere on the sea. I pay attention to this, colleagues, that we are with you to represent the citizens of Ukraine and the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u34	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich. It doesn't, does it? It's bad when there's no national MPs who vote, but worse when there's no decision-makers. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u35	Mr. Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee has considered at its meeting drafts of the Registration Order 3822-P, introduced by the People's Deputies Timoshenko and Cimbaluk, the draft Registration Order 3822-P1, introduced by the People's Deputy Ivchenk and the Decision (Registration No. 3822-P2), introduced by the People's Deputy Kabachenko. These drafts of the Decree propose that the Parliament's decision of 13 July on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Law on the Specialities of Reforming Enterprises of the Defence and Industrial Complex of State Property shall be repealed. Since explanatory notes point to the vast majority of the authors of these drafts, the Law has been passed in violation of the Supreme Council’s Rules. So in summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusions on the draft Regulations of Registrations: 3822-P, 3822-P1 and 3822-P2 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council whether to vote on their acceptance or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In fact, a very important Act we have adopted under the Ucroborprom, which is reforming its activity, finally in a long time, in recent years, the company has been audited, and a plan has been put in place, and this is all correlated with the Cabinet Order, a Strategy developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to make such unitary enterprises of a closed type into equity societies. And we have to say that there were no manipulations in the Chamber of Deputies, in fact, Ucrobanprom is being turned into an open-source stock company where 100 percent of the shares belong to the State. Nobody's looking for an investor right now, and they're not selling this strategic enterprise to foreigners, so that's not true. Why are we meeting today, why are there so few deputies? Because, in fact, everyone understands that similar decisions to overturn the decisions of the Supreme Council are simply a tool for political pyar, manipulation of opposition parties. Even of the two decrees that have been issued today, two authors are not in the Supreme Council Hall, even for them these rulings are not important. Secondly, the argument that the drafts were adopted in violation of the Rules is not justified at all, and today, we have never heard an explanation from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, why are the rulings on the argument of "infringing the Rules" when the Rules are not actually being violated? Here are thousands, tens of thousands of amendments that make certain political forces, such determinations only to slow down the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to stop our path towards reforming the various spheres of the economy of Ukraine. A very important law has been passed on the reform of the Ucroborprom, so please do not support this order to repeal this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u38	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine. Aah! Check. National Deputy Shahov, Trust Group. Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u39	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, remember the tale of a cunning man who tops himself and pears to the people. So, ten years ago, a defense company was stolen that makes explosives in the Lugansk region called "The Star." Half of it is given to the state today, where everything is cut out of scrap metal today, and half of it is made today by the billions of dollars that are being poured out there, those deputies in the pocket, and is being robbed today by the Ukrainian people in Rubizhny's city throughout the Lugansk region. Today, the state - owned enterprise owed 12.8 million dollars for water. Literally the same company that these bastards stole, and today they have a stop-screen to turn off the water in Ruby City at all. Who will be responsible for the collapse that is today? The cleaners also now belong to the private enterprise "Zorya", which our parents once built, tearing their hands into the blood, making that penny to feed the children on a piece of meat. Today, people do not earn a piece of bread. There's today. I got news that they want to cut people down at the Star Company by half, that 7,000 people worked, then 3,000 people would work 1.5 thousand people. Who will be responsible for this social collapse? When will they return to the state of the monopolies that are now in the ranks of the oligarchs who are robbing the state? When, after all, the President, the Parliament, the Kabmin, will pay attention to and audit all the state-owned enterprises that are in the oligarchic raids that billions of dollars of money go abroad? When will this happen? I am addressing the President today, the President's Office, the Kabmin and the Parliament, to make an immediate interim investigation commission and to bring the defense order back to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u40	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich. I understand he's handing it over to Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u41	Dear listeners! The Fatherland faction. You know, there's a lot of nonsense going on here. Our colleagues in the "Serial of the People" faction can't read who assembled this session. Or do we have to count the money that went to this meeting from the President's Office? I'm talking to those who don't read why they called you here. And this was called upon the President's request. Whoever convened this session did not ask any questions. You say you want to work like this, show me one question that you've called for, show me one thing -- all questions raised by the opposition. It's the only way to get your attention again to what you're doing with the country's defense complex. For the first two years, you created supervisory boards that received between 500 and 700,000 dollars a month -- people who didn't serve in the army for a day, they ran the country's defense council. And then you assign people who don't have any profile education at all, and this experiment ended in tears. Then we hear first and second government relations, which turns out to be a defense complex -- that's what's going to get the country out of the crisis. And now, it turns out, a country out of crisis is getting full stock. Or have you forgotten that you have abolished the Law on the Characteristics of Great Privatization, where there is now no list of enterprises that are or are not subject to privatization? There is no such bill in principle. So I think that's the only way that was left to save the industrial defense complex from the final collapse. But we can see who's in the hall. We see how the ruling party works in this room. And that's the answer to all the questions. The Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u42	The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u43	I'd like to go to Parliament's press office and show this room right now, and thank the European Solidarity, which is almost entirely present in Parliament today. Because when deputies take their work seriously, they do not forget that they are not already on vacation, and they are still working on committees for a week. Where are the servants, my friends? They've all gone to rest under the guidance of Mr. Arahama, that's what we understand. And when it comes to the defense complex, my friends, obviously, the Ucrobanprom needs to be reformed. And we see today the authorities of the "removalists" destroying under the leadership of the Commander-in-Chief the defence complex. Today Igor Pavlovski, a general, is being tried to restore in Ukraine the naval fleet stolen from us by the Russian Federation. And today, the person who took the Ukrainian craftsmen to arm our fleet, just the courthouse today, from the Bank's Office, they're judging. At this time, we do not have a state defense order. At this time, we are essentially destroying missile programs today. At this time, we do not have Zelensky on his instructions to arm the new boats in Odessa right now, just to avenge the former team, the team of volunteers, volunteers, the team of the fifth president of Ukraine, who did everything to bring our army, which was destroyed in Yanukovich's time and stolen, back from scratch and for it to be armed. Obviously, you've rightly pointed out today, colleagues, that these two years you've done everything you can to destroy the defense complex. And people there were paid not for reform, but for criticizing the opposition. You pay very generously for this, both in envelopes and officially in the Ukrainian budget. We're actually going to be very serious today watching you without tenders just destroy the Ukrainian defence system. And you actually know.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u44	The word is given to the national deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich. Please. "To the future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u45	Dear Ukrainians, well, you can see that what is now happening in the hall in other words as a farce is not called. Ninety-nine national deputies registered. I'm a hundred. And it takes 226 to make decisions. Why this farce? Because the authorities fear that defense reform will be abolished, which should really be called an attempt to share surplus property. This is the key issue of this bill, the surplus of property and land! Don't listen to them. They're liars. And there was more than enough time to reform it if they wanted to. But unfortunately, we opposition deputies can only point to this fact, no less. Because even if we're supported by everyone in this room, we're going to get 99 or maybe 100 votes. But that won't even happen because those who are here, even they won't vote for it, to the great regret. Don't believe the liars, vote for the right people who promise and then make.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u46	Please, from Voice. Yes, please turn it on. Clemensa Julia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u47	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Colleagues, the reform of Ucroborprom is certainly important and must be done. But what I want to tell you is that the reform of the defence sector, and the execution, and the filling of the defence sector of our defenses, starts with a state defense order. Because Ucrobanprom is only 30-40 percent of the government's defense order. Everything else is done in other businesses and not in the holding companies. So I'm pointing out that the state defense order was approved and actually started only in April of this year, although it should have been done in January. So please, fellow Servants of the People, if you want to be defensive and reformed, you have to start with a state defense order that was approved in January of this year and executed in December of this year. In fact, now it's broken down, and the chances that it's going to be executed, and our defenses are going to be strong, there's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, they're all here. I'm putting these draft decrees to the vote. I am the first to put forward a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Law on the Specificities of Reforming Enterprises of the Defence and Industrial Complex of State Property (Article 3822-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[14:45:45]] For-33 The decision is not taken. The next draft is the Decision on the Cancellation of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Adoption of the Second Reading and the whole of the draft Act on the Specificities of the Reform of the Defence and Industrial Complex of State Property (Project No. 3822-P1). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:46:24]] For-31 The decision is not taken. And the ultimate decision on this issue is the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Law on the Specialities of Reforming Enterprises of the Defence and Industrial Complex of State Property (Article 3822-P2). Please identify and vote. [[14:46:57]] For-34 The decision is not taken. All determinations are rejected. The law can be signed. Let's move on, next question. The next block of rulings is the rulings relating to the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of a second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine concerning the order of election (delegation) for members of the Supreme Council of Justice and the activities of the disciplinary inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (this is Bill 5068-P, 5068-P1, 5068-P2, 5068-P3). Once again, according to the Rules, part nine of article 48 deals with these issues automatically under a reduced procedure. So I invite the author of the first ruling, Grigori Mikolaiovich Mamku, "The Opposition Platform for Life." None. Next. The author of the next decision is Ukrainian national deputy Andri Viktorovich Puziyczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u49	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. I will continue with respect to the Rules and Legal Position of the Constitutional Court in the decision on the constitutional application of 50 national deputies for official interpretation of the provisions of articles 75, 82, 84, 91, 104 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the validity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 17-pp/2002 of 17.10.2002. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has the power to enact laws and to implement other constitutionally defined powers in the event of its plenary meetings at the time of the vote at least the number of Ukrainian national deputies required under the Constitution to take the relevant decision, namely, 226 deputies. This meeting is not authorized. Next. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutional application of 57 national deputies on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine, the constitutionality of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy of February 28, 2018 No. 2-r/2018 states: "The procedure for the consideration and approval by Parliament of bills, the consideration of proposals for bills should be based on the principles laid down in the Constitution. Failure to comply with these principles or disregard them violates democratic requirements for the constitutional procedure for the review and adoption of draft laws and also questions the legitimacy of the laws adopted." "Laws or other acts shall be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine only if the relevant plenary is present at the time of the vote of the People's Deputies in a number equal to or less than necessary for the decision to be taken. " This is 226. Close this session! Finish this farce! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u50	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Ukraine to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, author of Decree 5068-P2. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u51	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Dear colleagues, by passing the Reform Law of the High Council of Justice, we have allowed countless violations of the current Ukrainian legislation. One of the key principles of the system of justice is that of collegiateness and the rule of law. Throughout the country, we see countless examples of outright criminal activity. In my native Lugansk, criminal conduct is closed through the courts. Courts are constantly assigned unnecessary expertise, which prolonged the investigation of socially important crimes for years. There's a lot of camaraderie going on. I think that every national MP in this room is in favour of updating the judicial branch of power. However, this process is extremely complex and important. We cannot approach this issue professionally, for the future of legislation depends on the work of the entire system of justice. The admission to control of the Higher Council of Foreign Justice will have a negative impact on the system. Why in all other countries of the world everything is decided solely by the citizens of this state, we put everything under the control of our Western partners. Maybe it's not a partnership anymore, it's a deliberate creation of Ukraine's vassality? That's the question. In order for our nation to become a prominent player among others, we must make it self-sufficient and independent and today it is in our hands. I also point out that the mandate of the EIT Commission goes far beyond what they should be. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out that the work of the High Council of Justice should be independent. Thank you, Your Honor, for your support. Sergey the Great Luganskin, the Trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u52	And the last decree of the authorship of the Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenka Sergey Volodymyrovich, his, too, I understand, is not in the hall. Dear colleagues, we give the floor to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u53	Mr. Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the draft regulations made by the People's MP Mamka (Registration No. 5068-P), the People's Deputy Puziyczuk (Registration No. 5068-P1), the People's Deputies Sukhov, the Plenipotentiary (Registration No. 5068-P2) and the People's Deputy Vlasenko (5068-P3). The draft regulations deal with the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the introduction to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the procedure for the election (delegation) of members of the High Council of Justice and the activities of disciplinary inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice. According to the vast majority of the authors of the draft regulations, the Law was adopted in violation of the Supreme Council’s Rules. In summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusions on draft regulations and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be decided by a vote on their adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u56	Please, Jaroslav Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u57	First of all, I'd like to make a negative reference to Mr. Puziyczuk, he's speaking so much that he wants to hear his argument again. As for the ruling, it is necessary to fail and initiate judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u58	The word is given to the People’s Deputy Ustenk. We cannot assume that you have appeared on the sidelines and that you are acting negatively. Dear friends, let's stop manipulating these cheap exits. Please, Mr. Ustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u59	Good afternoon. Alexius Ustenko, "Serial of the People" faction. Colleagues, in order not only to have the authors come and the authors who make the decisions, must also ensure that the factions are present at the meeting, if these decisions are important to them. Colleagues really look at us doctors, those who build roads, look at us metallurgy and all the professions that do not have vacations that work without weekends, and those who work at the border today, on top of it, those who inoculate doctors, mobile brigades. So let's be an example, and all of you, if you make this kind of determination, please ensure that all of the members of your faction are present, to show an example and that it's really important to you. That's why I'm asking you to fail this Order. Colleagues, let's reform. And on the basis of what they say is that the Greens have gathered meetings, indeed, the President for Reforms, the President for us to really change the judicial system, and really go through the reforms that are necessary today for Ukraine. So we break down, we sign the law. And, colleagues, once again, please show an example for all Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u60	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. John Ivanovich Krulko, the noun, let's once again welcome John Ivanovich for having him at work on his birthday. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u61	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, of course, for your welcome. Today we have an emergency session, and you know, as an old face, I want to look at young faces, look at new faces. I find it very interesting to see in this room not the first so - called judicial reform. So you know what it's all about? It comes down to one thing: to want to bring the judicial system into order so that the courts don't make decisions under the law, but according to "phone law," that's all they need to know about the judicial reforms that are being considered in this room, and that's what's called a loud name. Teachers, doctors, and pensioners looked at us in this room. Of course, they look at us and wait, and when they finally make at least one decision for them in this room. Because this session, which we are about to conclude this week, has been marked by the fact that no decision has been made for doctors, teachers, pensioners, or socially disadvantaged people, and the standard of living is falling. But at the same time, it's for the country's derby, for the gaming business, for the sale of strategic property, for the judicial reform of what's called the courts -- that's what the time is for. And so you don't have to look at the factions of opposition, you have to look at yourself, you have to look at the decisions that unfortunately are being made in this room. And you know, the less decisions you make, the better people live. And people are waiting for any decision to really be taken in their interests, and that's what the Fatherland is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u62	The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u64	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to remind someone that we have a week of work in the districts, which is now not supposed to be in the United States, as we see in the Facebook of all the "servants" there, not somewhere in the Mediterranean to rest on the islands, as we, again, see from the social networks of "ministers of the people" with beautiful photos, but to work really with voters in the districts, like my colleagues who are here yesterday have been doing receptions and solving the problems of our citizens. And here we see that in a country in a military state, actually, yes, parliament, it can't get together. And how will our international partners appreciate this country at all, how can they help us in some way if we have an ineffective normal parliament at all? And these bills, which we now have to repeal by this decree, are also a violation of both our Constitution and our subjectivity. And that's why I want to say that they really need to be accepted. You read what you've accepted, I'm with the Servants. What you're actually removing is both the MP factions and the MPs from submitting candidates to the IDP, the fact that you're reducing the possibility of a session hall, the fact that you're increasing the President's ability and influence. You don't have enough of what's going on right now? You don't have enough of the dictatorial regime that you're implementing, and what's going to be against you, and then what's going to happen? Do you want more? Do you want the aliens to actually control all our strategic fields even more? You don't have enough money to get millions of dollars out of our salary budget like Smilinski, for example, and the mailmen get a thousand hundred dollars out there, and they don't do anything, and they're driving our country even more into the boards and into the minus. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević and then we go to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u67	Thank you. I'm asking you to answer these cynical warnings by the authorities that the opposition seems to be responsible for today's session. Dear colleagues, please tell me, what prevented you from considering these decrees last week? The laws were passed on Tuesday, and the decrees were immediately registered, and on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday we had alternate meetings. You didn't do it wrong, I'll tell you why -- to look at it at an illegal meeting right now. You are well aware that the 2002 decision prohibits the holding of such meetings during a vote that does not contain 226 votes. That means you're consciously "falling" this, given your so-called laws that you're not actually developing or creating anything. You're destroying, you're destroying, you're destroying, you're trying to destroy the court system. But you're not going to get it, and the perspective of these laws is very clear. I would like to remind you that during those laws that have been repealed for failing to comply with the procedure, there has certainly been a test of compliance with this decision by the Constitutional Court. And in this case, they're definitely going to start looking at their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What does replica mean? Dear friends, come on. Can I have a second? Dear colleagues, I just have time and inspiration, and I just want to remind you that, given the extent to which these minor movements began to be misused in the hall, I went to the regulatory committee, and the regulatory committee made it clear, I sent it to all the national deputies so that you could get to know each other when the replica is given. Thus, simply mentioning a person, even when you speak in a very negative way after that, is not the basis for giving you the right to reply. Dear colleagues, we teach the Rules together, we listen to what the Regulatory Committee says. They haven't come from you yet, have they? Now. "Serve of the people," "For the future." Please, Sergey Shahov, "Trust." And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u69	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Would the courts like to pay attention, the Ukrainian Security Service no longer draws attention to the fact that we're talking about force structures, the IMF, the Presidential Office, maybe the courts that we're talking about here today will pay attention to that? In the Luhansk region, Ukrainian land is now completely destroyed at a gelatin plant in the city of Lysicánsk. The mine is horrendous when 1 billion 700,000 dollars were not paid to miners. It's a mining team today, and the Ukrainian mines are not being developed. Who will be responsible? This is followed by the crime of the military and civilian administration, Hayday, who is robbing the Lugansk region. The forest from the Luhansk region is also being transported today. Who, the courts will stop today's looting of that area of suffering, where the war is going? Please raise your hand, who is involved today? Nobody. So maybe we should go anyway? Let's go to Lugansk, see how it's done during the holidays, huh? Let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am putting to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act on the introduction to certain laws of Ukraine on the appointment of members of the Supreme Council of Justice and the activities of the disciplinary inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration number 5068-P). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:05:14]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next. I would like to vote on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Order of Election (Appointment) for members of the High Council of Justice and the Activities of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (Project No. 5068-P1). Please vote. [[15:05:49]] For-32 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Order of Election (Appointment) for members of the High Council of Justice and the Activities of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (Project No. 5068-P2). Please vote. [[15:06:23]] For-31 The decision is not taken. And the extreme, in this block, is the draft decision. Abolishing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt in the second reading and in the whole draft of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Election Orders (Request) as members of the High Council of Justice and the Activities of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (Project No. 5068-P3). Please vote. [[15:06:59]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, and the final question to date is the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14 July 2021 on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, the law of Ukraine of the draft Law amending article 188-32 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for failure to meet the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice (registration numbers 5069-P and 5069-P1). I invite you to the speech of the National Deputy of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that in accordance with part nine of article 48, this issue is being considered under a reduced procedure. I invite you to speak as the author of the rulings. draft decision of Ukrainian national deputy Andrija Viktorovich Puziyczuk. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u71	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Chairman, first of all, I address you. Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman of the Plenary Meeting of the Supreme Council: "1. The chairman of the plenary session of the Supreme Council: adheres to the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine and this Rules and takes steps to ensure that they are kept by all present in plenary meetings." Nowhere did I read that a presiding officer could violate the Rules, restrict a national MP to respond to a lineup. Dear colleagues, as far as Bills 5068 and 5069 are concerned, please read the address of the High Council of Justice to you, to the national MPs, and to the President of Ukraine. In this reference, the Supreme Council of Justice notes the unconstitutionality of laws. On July 14, 2021, Parliament passed the bill. And during the adoption of the laws, the Supreme Council should take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the standards that were already the subject of its consideration and which were declared unconstitutional. Having studied the bill, the Supreme Council of Justice has concluded that the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11 March 2020 No. 4-r/2020, which was declared unconstitutional, has not been taken into account. Dear colleagues, you cannot correct the queue for your so-called pseudoreform court errors. Bills that conflict with the Constitution cannot be adopted. Accept these bills contrary to the Rules. You know, it's embarrassing, it's not like we can call it a meeting. It's not a meeting, it's a farce. We must work for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. They're not waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u72	The word is given to the author of the second decree by the Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Anatoliovich the Great. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u73	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. In continuing the reform of the Supreme Council of Justice, I would like to point out that draft Law No. 5069 is inseparable from 5068. I consider it a mistake to adopt these bills. The standards adopted by the Supreme Council will bring the work of the High Council of Justice to nothing. And today we see that the judges on whom the disciplinary complaint is being considered feel completely unpunished and confident that the responsibility for one or the other violations will never come. Of course, the justice system needs to be upgraded in a qualitative way. In fact, however, we are in violation of the Constitution. Because the Constitution establishes that the IDP is a collegiate body, and the changes to legislation, we establish the actual and identical status of the disciplinary inspector and a member of the High Council of Justice. Even then, what if the members of the PTA can do anything by disciplinary inspectors? We cannot support such changes to the work of the judiciary, for they will hardly have a positive effect and will ensure that the quality of justice in Ukraine deteriorates. We have to think realistically, get all the interested parties involved and produce the right form of updating the judicial system, otherwise we're going to have a collapse that can just destroy our country. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u74	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u75	Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the national parliament, the regulatory committee at its meeting discussed draft decrees on second reading and the whole Act amending article 188 with the symbol 32 of the Code on Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice (registration numbers of draft regulations: 5069-P, introduced by the Puzichuk People's Deputy, and registration number 5069-P1, introduced by the National Deputies of the Sukhov and the High Power). These draft decrees propose repealing the relevant decision of Parliament, since the authors suggest that the adoption of this law has taken place in violation of the Supreme Council Rules. In the summary of these issues, the Regulatory Committee adopted conclusions on draft regulations (registrations 5069-P and 5069-P1) and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that a vote be taken on their acceptance or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes, of course. Please sign up for the performance. The word is given to the National Deputy Pavelska Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u77	Dear Ukrainians, "European Solidarity" would like to thank Volodymira Zelenski, who has gathered this meeting today, because this is a great opportunity to talk about what is happening today with the judicial system that Banka is unfortunately trying to put on her knees. But notice, Mr. Zelensky, that "cat from house to house and mouse to dance." Today, once you've gone to Georgia, your deputies, who you have gathered on this "green" list, have not even come to the meeting of the Parliament convened by you, President Zelenski, who has led them to this call. Unlike European Solidarity, which works in both power and opposition with great dignity and responsibility in the positions of parliament. Today we don't have our colleague Sophia Fedina with us, because Zelenski fled to Georgia from a court where he dragged Sophia Fedina, Marus Zviroby, he's tried with them, he's injured there. Today, however, not only Zelensky but even the prosecutors in this matter have appeared. We call on Zelensky, you understand very well that this case is "made with white thread," "green thread," and call off your suit, and don't be embarrassed. In fact, everything that is happening with the judicial system today is once again an attempt to remind you: Zelensky is trying to destroy the Supreme Court of Ukraine when, as a guarantor of the Constitution, he allows himself to make incorrect statements in relation to the judges. Today, the D.B.I. opens criminal cases not only against volunteers, veterans, opponents, Sofia, but against the judges of the Supreme Court, because they did not agree with Zelenski, who made a constitutional decision in the Tupicko case. Today's Green Team has locked up a senior judges' panel for two years, so half of the judges in the country are understaffed. And people don't want to go to work, they don't want to work, they don't want to be dependent on the Bank and follow orders from the President's Office, so stop pushing the court. And the opposition that today is fighting for the independence of the judges, we thank, thank and vote for all these rulings.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u78	The word is given to the national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u79	Sobolje, Fatherland. Colleagues, this is the last bill and from the so-called legal reform of Zelensky's name, that's how it's going to go into history. And that's why, today, when we tried to convene a session with a depraved agenda, which was actually an opportunity in view of the fact that such decisions had not been considered, nor to destroy the Ucroborprom until autumn, but to go into this session hall and review these decisions, nor to destroy the judges definitively. You'll think, for two years, you didn't actually give the opportunity, "People's Servants," to appoint judges -- you did this by illegally canceling two key constitutional bodies. Now read the title of this bill. Disciplinary inspectors that you can't find anywhere in the Constitution or in the practice of existence at all. Who appoints them, disciplinary inspectors? The Supreme Council of Justice's apparatus. Yes, and why is it the Supreme Council of Justice, why is this selection, why is it an approach if the apparatus appoints a disciplinary inspector whose decision is not implemented, you're comparing it to failure to comply with the decisions of judges, prosecutors, D.B.I. and any other body. But what is a disciplinary inspector? And your bill in full seriousness was introduced into the session room. We gave you the last chance not to allow this illegal, non-constitutional, so-called judicial reform in Ukraine to stop, you don't want it. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill, which our colleagues have passed, and this decree must be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u80	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni. She's handing over Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u81	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I am asked to speak quietly from this rostrum, but I cannot because today the Ukrainian people are shouting, not just practicing, but shouting. And not only in Luhansk, and in Winnitz from Bilozore, and in the Plains where Ivanchuk, and in Zakarpat, where our colleagues, Horvath, and in Cherkaschi, where Rudik, are all of us from there as majors. I ask you to support these decisions of Puzichuk and the Mighty, because they are essential. Today, we can't talk about judicial reform when reforms destroyed by the medical system, the MOH is constantly putting obstacles, and the medics are running out of the country, falling off their feet, working at work, getting sick at that COVID, treating us, not getting proper wages, and they're constantly getting paid by the NSA. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't sit here and keep our mouths shut when the Naftogaz Board of Ukraine, the Crucifixes, the Crucifixes receive billions of bonuses and wages when Grandma receives a pension of 1 thousand 724 bracelets. I came specifically to this meeting from my district, and I'll tell you this: People are both cursing Parliament, and Kabmin, and the President's Office, because people are starving today. 10 million people are starving today, 86 percent of the population is outside the poverty line, and we're saying that someone is getting billions, and we can't decide to push those nipples out of the chairs. Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to this! Reforms are worthless, and Ukraine is going economically to the brink of your reforms. Two years you've been running the state and zero results. Zero!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u82	Please, Dirdin is handing over to Bakum Alexander Sergiyovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u83	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Today, there have been many complaints to the President of Ukraine, and also to our colleagues, to the deputies, about today's meeting. But let's talk to you honestly and honestly and tell everyone why we're here today. To unlock the signing of laws. And if the subjects of the legislative initiative had not made their decision, no extraordinary session would have taken place today. Let us be honest about the fact that there was no speech, no meaningful speech of today’s day. Because the Rules provide for such regulations to be made if there is a breach of procedure. We're talking about everything today, but not the content, the political hup and nothing else. We're breaking up with you. It's a classic, classic abuse of parliamentary law, abuse. That's why I have an offer. Our deputies are working, they're definitely, if they wanted to participate in today's session, they'd be sitting here. But according to the calendar plan for the Supreme Council, there is a week of electoral work today and a week, and we work with the voters. And I urge you all to finish this farce and come back to work with the electorate. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u84	The word is given to the national deputy, Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u85	I give the floor to the deputy who came, Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u86	Please, the word of Michael Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today there has been a lot of talk about respect for the Supreme Council here. I want to remind you that on December 16, 20th, a decree was passed in this session hall to change the boundaries of the city of Radehova. Today, the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences does not consider the decision we have to make to be the one to do. Mr. Chairman, I would like my speech to be a parliamentary address to both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Academy of Agrarian Sciences, so that they will hand over the land that increases the boundaries of the city of Radehova. Because these countries are waiting for the guys who passed the ATO, the OOS, and they're very much needed. Unfortunately, the Academy of Agricultural Sciences does not do this, and the initiator of this decision was the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, it is respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine that must be, and I urge it to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Please respond, form it as a reference. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. Yeah, I'll take a look. Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, "For the Future." And then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u89	Society, I wasn't planning on taking the floor, but I have to respond to the line, or the speech, by a representative of the Servants of the People, who said that their representatives were not in the hall, they worked hard with the voters, and he urged them to continue working with them. Dear Ukrainians who hear me, everyone knows their deputies, at least majors, at least so they should know if they were working. Please check my Facebook page. I'll be in Smilli tomorrow, the center of my constituency. I give the public word, I will be in Kamanca tomorrow, and by the end of the week I will be in all the villages of my constituency in which I will arrive. Look at how many there will be in the constituencies. Enough Washington to accept the constituency of its electorate! That's not why people voted when you lied to them, that you would make life better, that you would end a period of poverty, that all would be just, good and beautiful people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-20-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14 July 2021 on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, as a law of Ukraine of the draft Law amending article 188-32 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspector of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration number of draft Decree 5069-P). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[15:26:01]] For-27 The decision is not taken. I also put forward a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14 July 2021 on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, as a law of Ukraine of the draft Law amending article 188-32 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspector of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration number 5069-P1). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[15:26:50]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've exhausted all questions of the day. All decisions. The Supreme Council made its decision. Mr. President, thank you to all the parliamentarians who have participated in this extraordinary meeting. We still have a lot of work to do. Therefore, allow the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be closed. Thank you, colleagues.
