ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m1.u1	In connection with the requirement of 156 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been agreed upon by all MPs and groups. You will be asked the following questions. Please prepare for registration. Please register. [[14:00:53]] There are 316 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Exploration, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes concerning the Guarantee of the Rights of Ukrainian and Foreign Investors (Registration No. 5141). Does anyone insist on the papers? Can we vote? One job, right? We can vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law (registration number 5141). Please support and vote. [[2:02:01]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question, how do I know without talking, right? I'll bet you a vote. Suggested as a basis, and in general, no objections? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter XI "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Act "On Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products" (Registration No. 5440). Please support and vote. [[14:02:46]] For 317 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending Chapter XI "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Act "On Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Production" (Registration No. 5440). Please support and vote. [[14:03:17]] For 315 Decision taken. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
