ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, members of the media! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. As I always remind you, registration takes place by pressing the "for" button, the first one on the left or the green one. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:13]] There are 200 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Kiwa Ili Volodymirovich, Mikoli Leonidovich Knyazick, Igor Sergiyovich Krivosheev. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I wish you success on your own, from my colleagues! Happy birthday to you! Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have up to 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the Ukrainian national deputies with proposals, statements and announcements. Please sign up from the MPs and groups, excuse me, from the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] That was you yesterday. See, yesterday was yesterday. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, respected citizens of Ukraine! People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, when I was asked in the first months of the Zelensky presidency and the presence of today's deputies in power that changed, compared to the previous authorities, I always said that the President was able to lower the degree of public opposition and mutual hatred. There were no other achievements then, but we expected them to be. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and we see that the atmosphere of the 14th, 19th year has returned to society. The atmosphere of mutual hatred and opposition, the atmosphere of opposition persecution, in fact the destruction of the opposition, when the authorities attempt to imprison one of the leaders of the opposition -- the co-head of our political power, Viktor Vladimirovich Medvedczuk, when it was four months ago when the television channels were shut down completely without a trial, when the ORP replaces the actual judicial branch of power. When we talk about achievement, the authorities say that a great achievement is that they seem to have opened up the earth’s market. Now under the Council, there's going to be a multi-million-dollar rally of supporters of our political power demanding that this plundering market be abolished, because all people understand, and this shows all sociological research, that it's not a market, but actually it's the sale of the Ukrainian state. We had high expectations that the authorities would really take serious steps to reform the health sector, but that was not the case. And we see that Mrs. Suprun's reform continues. We very much hoped that the authorities would take serious steps towards reforming the education system, more precisely the halting of this reform, a reform that actually debilitates our children, but that didn't happen. And we see the President talking about some kind of slogan that we're going to build a new university for the future. We've seen what's going on in those classic universities of many -- they're actually being destroyed. I would very much like it, fellow colleagues, that the time that we have spent with you in this room is not to raise ratings or to fight for power, or to adopt completely weak laws, but to solve important issues for the country. It's a matter of peace. It's a question of the social security of our citizens. It's a question of civil peace in a society that we don't have with you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u3	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u4	Good morning, fellow citizens of Ukraine! Germano Vasil Ivanovich "The Opposition Platform for Life". I was moved to come out to you today and share that information about the fate of the earth. First. I want to say that tomorrow the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will begin its consideration of two constitutional submissions. At the same time, Your Honor, you all know that we are in a state that has found us legally, unfortunately, paralyzed by the activities of the Constitutional Court. Today, two judges of the Constitutional Court are illegally removed from their duties. It's on the conscience of the authorities. It is on the conscience of the head of State who has the responsibility to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms and guarantees of the functioning of the Constitution. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that today thousands of citizens have gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council, brought here from all parts of Ukraine, beginning with the Carpathians, ending in East and Chernigov. Dear colleagues, come out and see what's driving these people here. Why did they go to Kiev, Kiev, like those walkers? Thank you, people, if they hear that they came to support, to support the constitutional principles of our society. Dear colleagues, when we talk about whether or not to be our nation, we must leave the constitutional postulate that the foundation and the natural source of our nation's existence is the earth. Read the Constitution. Read what the people said on December 1, 1991. He said that the earth is the property of the Ukrainian people and is the material foundation of sovereignty and independence. How could we accept such acts with you when they allowed us to sell land? Once again, I emphasize that the earth is not an object of eternal right at all, and there is nowhere in the world, the issue of earth’s use. And you don't have to confuse land with land as a geopolitical phenomenon. It's for today ask the question that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u5	Alexander Koltunović, please, the "Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u6	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, distinguished colleagues, present, voters! I want to draw attention to what my previous speaking colleagues have already said, which, in fact, came together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine thousands of our supporters, thousands of Ukrainians who are opposed to the launch of a market circulation of agricultural land, against the sale of land that is allowed today and will enter into force on 1 July of this year. Why not, why are we against? And why are sociology data such that between 70 and 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens oppose the sale of agricultural land? This is not just a question of our own rations -- it's a question of state land, it's a question of land that's in state and municipal property -- it's especially valuable land. These are the lands that we have blocked, with all truths and lies, so that you don't vote for a concentration of 100,000 hectares of land for individual territories. These are the lands used by the Academy of Sciences of Agriculture. These are the lands that we now have left to inherit, that's 8 to 9 percent of the world's reserves. This is our strategic resource for the food security of the country, to overcome the raw orientation of the national economy and a number of other derivatives. So our faction will continue to insist, and we will continue to stand up for this in the Constitutional Court, that the question of the circulation of agricultural land should be passed through a referendum. And I'm convinced that 70 percent will at least say no to the question of selling land, because we see objective sociology of all, even unfriendly, statistical services. And then we have to develop a land lease institution -- that's the institution that's giving the world maximum capitalization for agriculture today. To overcome the raw economy, for the processing industry, for the development of animal production, irrigation and many other things that shape the country's food security. Another very important moment that I can't help but notice. What are we offered in price policy for land? A thousand dollars per hectare. Imagine people being deceived when our neighbors in other countries sell land for 20, 40, 80, and colleagues have already brought new numbers from Germany, up to 100,000 euros per hectare of land. 100,000 euros in them and one thousand in us. Is that fair? This means that it is stealing Ukrainian land in conditions of low capitalization, decline, stagflation and all the other macroeconomic shocks that are happening in the country today. I will not pay attention to other economic aspects; I will just say that in today's conditions, it is necessary to overcome the economic crisis, not by market circulation of agricultural land, but in principle by a new economic policy that will defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u7	Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u8	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, there have been 16 of them working in Ukraine for several months now, they are in various cities in Ukraine: in Chernivts, in Ivano-Frankivsk, in Rivno, in Žitomir, in Žmernica, in Mirrod, in Podilsk, in Baltia, in Cherkas, in Mirgorod, three centres work on Donbas (this is Constantine, Kramatorsk, Lyman), Dobrovelikka, Kropivnitski on Kirovgrad. These centers and children work everywhere, and adults work there for free. There are English classes, in Mirgorod and in Žmernica, Chinese children and adults learn Chinese, in Liman, yoga groups from young children 5-7 years old, where the oldest member of 76 years old, the hairdresser of Vitaly in Cherkas 57 years old, a free English student, and a large family of children from Žmernka walk the whole family to learn English. Concerts take place, reading takes place, and books are presented. Alexander Irvanec is reading a series of lectures in Equinas about modern - day Ukrainian literature. Everyone seems to like it. But no, my friends, there are those who don't like it! And the authorities started attacking Goncharenko Centers. And the first attack was the Gončarenko Center in Cherkas, where we're in the building of a music-dramatic theater where the Astronaut School is already working, a stage language for all who want to. And please note, unlike the Presidential University of the Future, which may eventually be in the future, in which they want to invest billions of budget money, there is no budget contribution to Gončarenko Centers, and everything that happens there is free for children, for adults, for children. Yesterday, on Child Protection Day, thousands of children from all over Ukraine took part in the Goncharenko Centers. And it seems to be a story to be proud of. No! No! They want to kill, they want to destroy. When they don't invest themselves in education, in culture, when they say "what difference," and at the time, those who do it fight with them. In Donbas, three centers where children and adults today learn Ukrainian, the history of Ukraine. Do we need to fight this or do we need to help? No, it's not. No one is helping, but we see how they are trying to destroy this initiative today. So from the thousands of people who are already studying at the Goncharenko Centers, we're talking: get your hands off the Goncharenko Centers! Let these educational and cultural, non-political spaces continue to work. Do something good for people, not engage in political struggles with children, with adults, with people who want to be better. We've got a logo of a potter. This potter has a better future for Ukraine because we invest in people. Take the example, not the senseless fight! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u9	Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u10	Good morning, dear fellows! My previous speech concluded that the Ukrainian people have the right to know who and what conditions his nadrama is using. And it's ironic that right after that, we witnessed another attempt to quietly get the right to develop one of the most promising beneficial fossils in Ukraine -- lithium. Lithium is called white oil and one of the engines of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Lithium battery is one of the most common objects in the world: our phones, our tablets, our electric cars, our energy storage systems -- all working on lithium. Ironically, it is because of this appeal that the lithium of Ukraine has not yet begun its industrial production of this beneficial fossil. So the license to develop lithium is given to unknown companies without competitions, and these unknown companies block transparent auctions. Until then, the attempt to control the lithium genealogy was limited by the courts, as well as by the informal influence of the State Ministry of Geology and the nadr of Ukraine. This time, however, they were willing to clean up such a furry piece of Ukrainian nadr. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered a bill that plans to reorder the management of Lithium ancestry from the knowledge of Djgeonadr Ukraine to the Inter-ministerial Commission on Contracts for Product Distribution. In addition to this, Ukraine’s Minstrategprom has developed changes to legal regulations aimed at fully reshaping the composition of the current Inter-Agency Commission and reordering it from Minenergo to Minstrategprom. The director of this special operation was one of Janukovic’s former officials. As you can imagine, the next steps should be to hold quasi-contests on the right to use lithium deposits and to hand them over to the right users. I will note that this transfer was intended to take place on the basis of product distribution contracts, which are the most profitable use of nadr in Ukraine: the use period is 50 years, and the investor returns to the money of all the investments he has invested. By the power of 50 national deputies, for which all those who have joined have a great deal of thanks, we have been able to stop the adoption of the changes developed by the Minstrategprom. I also hope that we can get all the conflicting positions out of the bill. In general, the morals of this story are very simple — the struggle for Ukrainian nadra is still going on. And this is the key: Ukrainian citizens need to know who and what conditions Ukraine's nadrama is using. This means that lithium yields should be placed on transparent auctions, and the right to order them should be given to the highest bidder. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u11	Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u12	Oxana Savchuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ivano-Frankishte. Yesterday was a very good day, and we talked about children, about their safety, and about their future. We gathered them in the walls of Parliament, we all tried to protect them as adults, and we talked about protecting our children. I am convinced that the protection and secure future of our children is what our national language policy will be. Because only a strong state stands for the only state language -- and it's Ukrainian. I think that no manipulation that is now going on around what needs to be termed, the use of Russian to continue, is a full manipulation. Ukrainian is a national language. In Ukraine, not only are we from the rostrum but we also need to make the most of our daily lives, and we need to learn to talk about it. To the Ukrainian people, it is no wonder that some ministers have not yet learned to speak English while they are still in government. And even when they speak here very rarely, they do it very brokenly and very unprofessionally. And this is also a testimony to our respect for our future. Including the safe future of our children, which we discussed so much yesterday. I'll give you concrete examples of how you can do things without waiting for understanding in the walls of Parliament. Last week, Ivano-Frankivsky signed the Cooperation Agreement with the town of Zacarpat. The teachers of the Bank will come to Ivano-Frankivsk better learn Ukrainian, and the teachers of the Ukrainian language of Ivano-Frankivsky will go to the Bank. This would seem to be a very simple thing to do at the country level and to cover a few hundred cities with simple normal communication. The very language issue that we will set as our own example will allow us not to have 204 votes in Parliament for the elimination of language law. These 204 votes, to me, are still a symbol of the fact that we have not yet done well in this Parliament, and not everyone fully understands that he is a representative of the Ukrainian Parliament, where he is to promote the only national language – Ukrainian. Because the enemy will not be in the country when we are strong and united, but we will be united by God and Ukraine, and by the only Ukrainian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u13	Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council keep talking about the oligarchs. We fight them, we impose sanctions, and we pass sentences on them. To date, the only successful case of deligarchisation is the victory of Ukrainians in the 2019 parliamentary elections in my 150 constituency. The victory that caused Jehovago’s oligarch to lose his parliamentary integrity and was declared an international search. This is not a victory for Zelensky or Silent, but for the common inhabitants of the Mountain Plains and the Kremenchuck region, which is a loathing of the Hobbsian Leviathan, which reflects heads and destroys human fate. Sadly, the oligarchic hydra in the Kremenchuck region continues to destroy people’s lives. In the 20th century, residents of the village of Jerzyvka live in demolished homes. They don't have refrigerators, pumps in wells, they can't drink cattle, they have no connection to civilization. There is a violent violation of human rights in the center of Ukraine, because the oligarchus Jevago wants to build a mining-enriching combination. Explaining what happened. 20 days ago, several villages near Jerzyvski GZK, one of the key assets belonging to Ferrexpo's group of running oligarch Zhivago, were demolished. The problem is simple: dozens of electric towers and 9 km of electric cable were dismantled, giving electricity to the settlements. These LEPs pass through the territory of the Jewish GZC. At the request of the locals, the Poltavavoblanergo company was pulled from all over the area to quickly restore electricity. However, the Jewish security service did not allow repairers to enter the territory; they simply obstructed the road with career technology. The motive is simple to make it impossible to live in a village. The inhabitants of the village of Jerzyvka have been displaced since 2010 because of the development of the Jewish HLC by Ferrexpo. The responsibility for compensation for damage to peasants lies with this particular company. If the village is demolished, it will be impossible to live here, and then the inhabitants will have to give up their homes and leave the territory. I want everyone to know about the destruction of the peasants in Jerzyvka Kremenchuck district of Poltav region by oligarch Zhevago: law enforcement organizations, international partners, and national MPs. Let investors who buy the shares of Ferrexpo know that by earning billions of dollars in iron ore mining, they are destroying ordinary people, ordinary Ukrainians, violating their fundamental rights, their right to clean air, water, food, and access to the simple benefits of civilization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u15	Timothychuk Vladimir Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u16	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you, Mr. Head. Black Sea Artem, 131 district, Mikolayivsk district, a united Voznesen region. Last week there was work in the district, and, as usual, as a national deputy traveled around, I was communicating with the inhabitants of 13 communities, this is the unified Ascension Region, which was formed around the South Ukrainian nuclear power station. TODAY, a situation that I have repeatedly stressed has taken 30 percent off, but the people's deputies have voted down and believe that Kabmin will return and justice will come back. And it's not about that right now, it's about a little bit different. I said I was going around 131 counties. It is said very loudly, he traveled because the roads, the roads that connect these 13 communities, are not at all there. I'm talking about T-1506, T-1510 and R-55. The 13 communities that are associated with these very ways are united and want to connect, communicate, and drive. The people who live there are very open, resilient, and industrious. But unfortunately, most of them have long since been away from the district center, in Santa. We're with you, your honorary colleagues, we're voting on laws that make schools of resistance, hospitals of resistance, clinics. But I'm sorry, if I'm driving around the county, I can see when a school bus just stops from a mile to a school, and the kids walk. Dear friends, then tell me where the money we vote in the Supreme Council in the budget is going? I am very grateful to Alexander Kubrakov for releasing former U.S. chief, and the one with a very unhappy face left this post. Because instead of doing the job, he was sorry, but he wrote fastings about how much he had done and what he had done. I am very grateful to the people of the Mikolai region, who each time advocate the interests of the road fund budget in the Mikolaiwi region. But our Wozniesen United District remains, sorry, unattended. And we didn't see that money on the road. You know, we have a lot of respect for our governor, who has taken the initiative to create a tourist ring of Ascension. But I have a question. It's a tourist ring, you can only see from the airball, because people just can't drive, there's no roads. That's why I'm speaking on behalf of 13 communities: Mostus, Veselinski, Domanowski. Please make at least a pitfall so that the children can get to the support facilities. Thank you. Black Sea Artem, 131 District, U.S.A.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u17	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u18	Nestor Sufrich, please, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, today June 2nd. For 4 months, three television stations, 112, NewsOne and Zek, were illegally shut down by unconstitutional, unconstitutional journalists. The United Nations High Commissioner's Office is concerned about the closure of 112 NewsOne and Zik, which is their official position. A report by the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine from February 1 to April 30 noted that this decision was contrary to international standards because it did not contain grounds for necessity and proportionality and was adopted by an independent body. This is an international partner's assessment of what is happening now with freedom of speech and democracy in our country. Shame is not the word, it's really a betrayal of national interests, when journalists who are criticizing power today, and there's a reason why they're closing their mouth in such a disgraceful way. This year 1937 may be resting; there are at least three people gathered, and here two at the office meet and close their mouths to nearly 2,000 journalists. That's democracy from the "ministers of the people," that's green democracy. And you think you can get through Ukraine with that? No! No! Ukrainians see everything and, believe me, they'll give a proper assessment. If you think that if you shut your mouth to journalists, you can't let them talk about stealing the land, explain it to thousands of people who are now approaching the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They go, and they say, "No, the sale of land!".. And that's just the beginning. Tomorrow we will push and demand the authorities to provide a fair referendum so that people can come and say, whether they sell land or not. Two thirds of the population, nearly 80 percent, are firmly opposed to the fact that the earth today is being ripped apart for nothing. They stole property rights from people during a voucher, and now they want to steal the most valuable, most expensive, land. Thousands of people are coming to a rally for the opposition platform for life initiatives to say no to you, the green servants of the people. We will defend human rights, the right to land, and the right to freedom of speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u20	Thank you. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Condratiuk Oleni Constantineni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u21	Olena Kondratjuk, Vice Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I'd like to draw your attention to today's agenda, which is now urgent for consideration by our country. Because on the Conciliation Council, I called on all factions and groups to today, more faithfully even yesterday or today, to vote on the Supreme Council's Order on addressing international organizations, governments and parliaments of the world's nations with developments concerning Belarus. That is, condemning the actions of the Belarusian authorities and recognizing Lukashenko’s regime as a threat to international security. To facilitate international investigation into the forced landing of a passenger aircraft. Express the demand for Belarus to stop the illegal persecution of journalists and political opponents. To increase pressure on Belarus, including by introducing restrictive measures, i.e. sanctions against Lukashenko’s regime. For some reason the decree of the Ukrainian Parliament did not appear in the order of the day. As far as I'm concerned, it's totally unacceptable and unacceptable. Because, as a country, if we want a solid position from European states, we have to act in a similar solidarity within the framework of European democracy. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both Chambers of Seima Poland unanimously voted in favour of a similar decree last week. Where, then, is our solidarity, where is Ukraine’s example? Not only should we immediately vote in favour of the decree, but we should also make clear the position of the Supreme Council on human rights violations in Belarus. And we need to address the President, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine with a request to acknowledge the list and urgently apply sanctions against specific people from around Lukashenko, as well as officials directly involved in acts of State terrorism, systematic human rights violations, the persecution and imprisonment of journalists and political opponents of the regime. Dear colleagues, we are obliged to accept a new reality in which the Lukashenko regime poses a threat to Ukraine’s national security. And we need to act decisively in harmony with the events of the time and not be afraid to speak the word of the truth here. I very much hope that the head of the committee of profile, the leadership of Parliament will respond and put the ruling in order as soon as possible to the Parliament's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for the show is up. There were two applications for a break with a replacement for the performance. The first is the Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u23	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. There are many wonderful communities, Ukrainian communities, in Donetsk and in Luhansk. And one such community is Friends. That's where the real patriots live. Sadly, however, there are also traitors. Thus, the traitors of Ukraine, who have not yet been punished, continue to violate the laws of Ukraine. In 2014, Vladimir Grigoreenko of the Friends held a so - called pseudoferendum as a substitute for the city’s head. This fact is established by the prosecutor’s office and the court, but Grigorenko has not yet been punished for it. Today, Grigorenko is the mayor of the OPCW Friends, and he is still violating the laws of Ukraine. In protest against the massive violations of legislation in this community, four factions did not attend the Grigorenko session. However, despite the apparent absence of a quorum, most of those present, Grigorenko held an illegal session. Moreover, he announced the beginning of the powers of the two deputies. Although the law clearly determines that this is the mandate of the territorial election commission, neither the meeting nor the announcement took place. Now, now, four factions have filed a lawsuit for violations of the rights and legislation in the Drykowska community -- the deputies of the Voice, the Servant of the People, the European Solidarity and the Opposition Block. Now they're accusing the decisions made at this pseudosession. And together with our colleagues, we also go to the law enforcement agencies to stop this abuse of law in Donetsk. Unpunished evil is like a tumor, it has the ability to grow. And we need to support the restoration of Ukraine's legal field in communities not only in Donetskina but throughout our country. Because if we don't stop the violation on Donetsk, then why won't other communities violate the same legislation? And finally, if the language has already gone to Donetskina, Mr. Golovo, representatives of not only the Novogrodian community, but also of other communities, are calling to restore the order of the day to the renaming of the community of New York. It was the decision of the community, it was the decision of the pro-Ukrainian patriotic camp of Donetskina. And I'm asking, on their behalf, to stop the violations that are now taking place in the Friends and also to return the name, the historical name of the New York community, which is now called Novogrodowska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u24	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u25	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues, I want to talk today about what worries without excluding all Ukrainian citizens. People living in cities and villages raise their children and try to make ends meet. I'd like to ask the millionaires, the billionaires who went from the old parties to this assembly of parliament. But do you know what the minimum of living right now is, I have a question? And I'll tell you, that's 2,000 270 bracelets for working people and 1 thousand 769 pennies for working persons, that's $2.30 a day. And according to the World Bank, people in the world who live on less than $1.90 are outside the poverty line. This is the coffee I bought at the walls of the Supreme Council, which is the Ukrainian subsistence minimum for today. It's poverty, it's poverty, and it's poverty that's been fixed by the previous government in 2016 by the decision of its government. I want to tell you what people should do, according to this decision. Eating not more than seven kilograms of meat (fish) in a year, wearing one jacket for 5 years, and if they are disabled and have lost their jobs, 8 years that some boots have to serve for 5 years, that two pans for 9 years is normal, that only a person needs to take a simple medication -- ad validol, corralol, analgin. They went to the Maldives, and they told us all that we had to get our seatbelts on. Why is it important to raise the cost of living? Hence, all of this includes salaries, pensions, child - care payments, and all social benefits. So my colleagues from the People's Servant, from the Social Policy Committee profile, we worked on Bill 3515, which envisions an increase in living minimum to 40 percent of the average wage and a gradual increase of one percent each year. So if the average wage is now 13,000 500 dollars, the living minimum is 5,000 400 dollars, next to that. Of course, it's not a European level, but it's a threefold increase. And we're proposing a real mechanism for Ukrainians to feel worthy, not like some previous ministers said that Ukrainians eat too much. So I ask all of you, who consider themselves to be a national MP, to support the bill today, it stands first in the agenda, 3515, so that people in Ukraine really feel worthy again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u26	Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of the creation of a minimum of living and the creation of preconditions for its promotion (3515, 3515-1). The bill is being considered in full procedure. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u27	Good morning, Mr. Chairman! Thank you, distinguished national MPs. I am very grateful to the factions that have put Bill 3515 into the agenda today. We've had 15 drafts on the committee that applied to the minimum of living, starting with number 1175 and alternatives to it. I would also like to point out that the Government of Honcharuk has also passed a bill of 2720, which has actually merged into a bill that we are now considering and becoming part of. Bill 2720 bound the subsistence minimum from the pile of values in our legislation, and I will now tell you why. I would also like to express my gratitude to Julia Sokolovsky, who, as an expert, prepared her own bill 2720 and spent a lot of time with the committee, personally with me to make it methodologically verified. In addition, Lebanon's Ally Marlenovni, with whom we also debated the minimum of living very often. These were actually the first steps of the committee and the committee showed that the problem of subsistence minimum is one of the pressing problems. We held parliamentary hearings on December 18, 2019. This is the way a book can be obtained by any national MP. The committee made a methodological compilation of parliamentary hearings so that all national deputies could understand questions and problems. The scientific materials gathered here were not only of the institutions but also of the district councils, for many representatives of the regions attended the parliamentary hearings. I am grateful to the First Deputy Committee of ours, Zimbaluuk Mikhailovich, for having spent all his time at these parliamentary hearings. Now for the structure of the bill. It's made up of four parts. The first part is the liability of the minimum of living, the second part is the methodology, the third part is how the wage will be determined if we remove the minimum of living. The multiple of wages and the fourth part is the transformation that we have to achieve at last the minimum of living that I've shown you when we've approved the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. Because for today, really, as Alexander Kachura said, the cost of living is less than 1.9-2.2 times the real one that should be in Ukraine. I'm going to stop at each of these four parts. I'll start with the methodology. There are different approaches in the world to the calculation methodology of the minimum of living, and different countries use it differently. But we have five. Why we have 5 living minimums, and in the world, one is a mystery that I'm going to leave behind to solve. These five living minimums have been left to us as an inheritance from Soviet times. But when we had a conversation with Julia Sokolovsky, she suggested that we make two living minimums: one is a physiological one, which was actually calculated today by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was annulled by the court. And in fact, we have today's minimum-of-living policy that we don't have at all, we don't have it. And it was the courts that canceled the physiological minimum of living. If you get less than what you put on a physical level, in this case you start autophagia cells, they start dying. We have today, like all the countries in the world, not to be focused on physiology, not on 2,200 kilocalories, we have to be socially oriented. What the world says is that it's a methodology for calculating a real or national minimum of living. So I think for the second reading, we're going to do a differentiation on the physiological subsistence minimum. On the other hand, we have a Constitution, and the Constitution clearly states that the minimum of living is mentioned there directly or indirectly in two articles. The first article is article 46 of the Constitution: the minimum pension should not be lower than the minimum of living if it is the main source of human financing. We also have 48 articles of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to an adequate level for himself and his family, including adequate food, clothing, and housing. So, this physiological level, it has to account for the physiological needs of a person, including food, clothing, and housing. Nevertheless, the bill is designed to introduce a social level that is linked to the average wage in Europe and to the standard of living that is in society. Now it's about how we have the minimum wage. Our minimum income has become bound by 15 wage laws. So the coefficients, if any of the national MPs want, are listed here, the wage ratios to the minimum of living are very interesting. Well, for example, teachers get a multiple of 4 and more. And if we look at the new laws, we'll see that, for example, the Supreme Court judges have 75 multiples, and the judges of specialized and local courts have 50 and 30. Individuals who have special posts at the Bureau of Economic Security (we have recently passed this law) – 20 and more. The head, members, employees of the territorial regulators, in accordance with the NCREKP Act, is 75, 60, 30. So the multiples, well, and I can show by other laws, but the multiples to the wages go from 4 to 75. Why is it important to remove today’s living minimum from wages? Because when the Council and the budget want to raise the minimum of living, the wages are raised at the same time. So when it's said that we can't raise the living minimum by raising it to a small amount, we get 75, 50, 20 times the increase in wages and other values to which there's an attachment in the living minimum. As the Kyiv School of Economics observed, the subsistence minimum lost its original physical meaning in Ukraine. We have to give it back to him. And once again, I'll mention the Constitution: it's a minimum pension and minimum social pay, and that's what for a person, for a low-income family, is a sufficient level to survive in this society. Social benefits. I want to pull over a little bit. Let's look at them. We introduced, about 10 years ago, in our legislation, an indicator of "the level of livelihood minimum." We started to reduce the social protection of the people, provided by the Constitution for a further percentage, because we were unable to provide wages and other costs associated with the minimum of living. According to the Ministry of Social Policy, I also have a board that is so thick when Minsoc sets three minimum values each year by more than 115 values in the country. We're multiplying sense. I can also mention the 7th article of the 2021 budget, which mentions not only 5 subsistence minimums but additional subsistence minimums separately for prosecutors and judges. So plurality, and according to Minsoc's estimates it's over 63 types of social pay, I think it's 116, we have a deputy here from the Ministry of Social Policy. But the logic of such a multiple or incomplete substitution of a minimum of living is not only invisible, but also incomprehensible to anyone. Social benefits are fragmented, irrelevant. For those of you who don't understand what the word "inappropriate" is, they're not appropriate to anything. We have a financial trap today, we can't increase the living minimum because there's such a connection. The state today cannot afford that. And that's a diagnosis. What should we do? How can you solve the problem of moving from a dead spot? To accept this bill, it binds these coefficients. To ensure that the minimum of living is linked only to the relevant values, particularly those two. A bill in which all national MPs who take part here can participate in the second reading of the bill. It was very difficult to reconcile with the Ministry of Finance. But he and I have prepared a second-reading table so that we don't balance the budget, but go out on an increase in the cost of living. It's fundamental. I want people's deputies and society to have no illusions that this is the bill that raises the minimum of living. It creates a framework for raising it from the following year in the budget process, without which the budget process will be inadequate. I'd like all the national MPs to support this. The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights has decided to recommend bill 3515 to accept as a basis and an alternative 3515-1 to reject. Thank you all very much for your support, of course. And thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u28	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u29	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Today we are considering one of the most important bills that gives an answer to how people will live on, the answer to how the country is going to conquer poverty. And we all know that we have two ways. The first is the cementing of poverty, which is the destruction of the remaining remnants of the social protection of Ukrainians. And it's not the fight against poverty, it's the fight against the poor. There's another way that our team has offered, along with scientists, with experts, with trade unions. And today you're going to decide how Ukraine's going to go, how our country is going to form a basic social dimension, a basic standard from which all of the country's social protection policies continue to be shaped. Here Mrs. Tretyakova said that their bill suggested that they remove the minimum of basic social standards for living. Sounds like something to tie up somewhere. And if you speak in a professional language, first of all, they're planning to exclude from the 95th article of the Ukrainian Labour Code the minimum wage rule, not less than the minimum wage for working persons. This proposal is in general contrary to article 3 of ILO Convention No. 131 on the establishment of a minimum wage ratified by Ukraine in 2005. Your Honor, what have you done? Today, the official subsistence minimum in the country is 2 000 379 dollars. Is it possible that one person in our country will survive on this money? No, it's not. We all celebrated Children's Day with you yesterday. So we have a child's living minimum of 1,000 921 bracelets. I want our national deputies to want them to feed their child, heal and care for this child for a thousand 921 bracelets a month. And this is the first time that the gap between the actual subsistence minimum set by the Ministry of Social Policy, and by April of this year it was 5,000 492 bracelets, twice as much as twice as the fixed subsistence minimum in the maintained budget. And now with your initiative, which you're going to support here, you're going to cement this livelihood minimum forever. You're going to offer people a chance to live on these 2,000 dollars to survive, we understand very well with you, we can't. The next rule you propose is to cancel the existing guarantees for determining the size of the minimum wage. What's going on now? Everyone's proud, we have a minimum wage of 6,000 dollars. Everyone is proud to have an average salary in the country of 13,000,543 bracelets, hurrah! Yeah, no, it's not a win. Because, unfortunately, our country has completely destroyed its tariff network today. And today everyone lives on a minimum wage. And at the expense of the heads of big state corporations, who assign millions of wages each month, they raise and make average wages around the country. Colleagues, these are social breakups that Ukraine has never seen before. And today you want this bill to "cement" these completely hybrid norms that were proposed by the previous government and continued by these new governments of this government. What the team suggests is "The Opposition Platform for Life." Well, first of all, we suggest that the subsistence minimum should be set up by a food set, a set of non-food products and a set of services approved annually by the government after conducting the appropriate scientific and public expertise and before the start of the consideration of the State Budget project. That the calculated size of the consumer basket cannot be less than officially approved in the previous year. Secondly, we suggest that the minimum wage is set by the government on the basis of the value of the approved consumer basket. Third: introduce a standard according to which the size of the subsistence minimum cannot be less than the projected actual size of the subsistence minimum. Fourth, the size of the actual subsistence minimum over two months exceeded the approved government budget, so you have to make changes and index the minimum of living within 15 days. We have a chance with you today to carry out a real reform of the basic social dimension. We have a chance with you today to establish the right approach to creating a subsistence minimum in our country. We also suggest that we change the approach to establishing the size of office salaries, which is to set them, not based on the minimum wage, but on the minimum wage. This requires a minimum wage standard, a tariff rate rate is set at no less than the minimum wage set for employed persons on 1 January of the calendar year, and not less than the projected actual size of the subsistence minimum for this category. This will allow us with you to restore this tariff network and pay people the money they actually earn today. And the third. And I'm sure this will be an obstacle to your voting for this bill. We propose to set limits on the size of wages in the public sector and for top managers of state corporations. Well, you can't make fun of me like that. They're always proud of what big managers they are and making tens of millions of dollars a month. You're assigning non-professionals there to make wage earners who are now receiving money from the state budget. So our position is clear -- we need to limit the wages of government officials and top management employees of state corporations. To this end, it is proposed to limit the minimum wage by 10 per cent, including allowances, bonuses, incentive payments by national deputies, government members, their substitutes, heads of government, and deputy heads of government, state-owned enterprises and state-owned companies. Four. To restore justice in the pay of teachers by setting the salaries of a teacher of the lowest quality category of three minimum wage, as well as to provide other incentives for seniority, academic title, and other salaries. Fellows, we have a chance with you. And I very much hope that, at the very least, you will hear that the first bill proposed, as Mrs. Tretlyakov said, is still the government of Goncharuk on his own, is a bill that completely destroys the social protection of Ukraine. This is a bill that is completely in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and rejects our country into the abyss of poverty. Our proposal is an offer when we can unite all efforts and prepare for second reading real reform. Reforming the protection and support of people. Reform of fair wages and social guarantees. Reform that will give people a vision of the future, a belief in their state, and a just social guarantee, a social shield on the part of the state. That is why we ask you to do so. We don't have to fight the poor. Today we need to unite all our efforts and overcome poverty in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u30	The word is given to the head of the committee, the social committee of Galina Trelyakow. Mrs. Galina, please. From the committee, please, your statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u31	The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. And I want to say that this bill, although it contains standards in the Act on Living Minimum on the Relationship to Minimum Wages, but, Mrs. Natalia, I want to tell you that there is a Law on Pay for Work, which has also fundamentally remained unchanged for many years. And there are articles 6 and 9, which leave the minimum wage attached to the minimum wage. And the minimum wage we have today is more than a real minimum of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u32	Question to the reporter. Please, Galina Mikolayevna, return to the rostrum, please. Three minutes of questions, please. Sign up for a question to the reporter. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u33	Please pass the word to your colleague Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u34	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u35	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna, for noting in your main report that the "Fatherland" team participated in committee hearings. Yes, I want to say that the subject is very difficult and really needs deep discussion. I'd like you to comment first. We've created a working group. If this bill is voted on, is there a content of the group’s work on the committee? And the next question. Why are there no prime ministers and ministers present? This is an important question that changes the whole configuration. Where are they, the ladies who are hired by the Supreme Council to work? Where are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u36	Thank you, Mikhailovich, for asking. I just want to point out that the committee held both committee hearings and parliamentary hearings. I want to point out that you were both there and there as a representative from Homeland, including. So in terms of working groups, you know how we have working groups. Once the bill is adopted in the first reading, there are also working groups, where I am not the head, although I am the author of the bill. Therefore, the preparation of the tables in the committee usually takes place by those forces, including opponents to the law. And I promise, and I think you yourself are the basis of a promise that all the factions on this bill's second-reading committee will happen. I'm 100% sure it's not one faction, it's the whole country's problem, and we have to do it friendlyly because we all want the minimum of living for our citizens to rise. And we started to take steps. In the last year, our government has risen faster than in previous years from 2014 to 2019. Well, why does the government say no to the government, not to me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u37	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u38	Dear Mrs. Galina, we've all seen how last week, at your initiative, a program of looting pensioners was developed when you tried to run private pension funds and finally robbed the entire pension system of Ukraine. Now you've moved on, because pensioners are good, and there are still working people in our country, staying. And you're offering to rob every working person in our country, denying them the right to receive a tariff salary and a normal tariff charge. So, please, can we please get enough of the social protection of the people in our tap? How did they offend you so much that you hate social protection and social support in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u39	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna, for asking. I want to talk about the robbery first. Well, first of all, this bill does not apply to that scheme you call "the robbery." But I'm going to mention for the whole room that the second level of state-run pensions is only being made in two countries in the world -- Russia and Kazakhstan. In other countries, the second level of pension is made in the private sector. As for "employees," I would like to see that word disappear from your vocabulary gradually, because the Supreme Council has passed the Deradation Act, which was created by Ruslan Stefanchuk, and we propose that the word be changed to "employees". So I'm going to point out that the Living Minimum Act does not apply to workers, it applies to those who are in difficult circumstances in life, and it's also low-security in market conditions. So I'm asking you to teach social policy in market conditions, not just in the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u40	Thank you. Please take your place, Galino Mikolayevno. Sign up for the performances by MPs and groups. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, we are now considering a law that solves a problem that should have been solved many years ago. The living minimum system in Ukraine is archaic, and now we're talking about that the subsistence minimum does not reflect the real minimum needed to survive citizens, but it's not the only problem. This law tries to solve this problem, but it also solves other problems. Another problem that exists is that very many of the indicators (business fines, pennies, salaries for officials and so on) are linked to this unit. And this does not allow the state to be flexible enough to pursue both social policy and business support policies. Let me give you an example. Each time a minimum of living is raised, it entails raising fines for business. Every time there's a desire to increase social standards for citizens, we make things worse for businesses that have to create jobs and improve these standards. As a result, the economy suffers as a result of fines, but so do citizens. Because how many times do you think there have been situations where the cost of living at least didn't rise to the right level just because they didn't want to raise the fines or the foam that much? So this law, it's progressive, is the first step in solving this problem. This law divides all these indicators. This law separates a minimum minimum of living, which, yes, indeed, according to the law has to be raised further in order to reflect a more real number. But he also separates businesses, fines, and pennies. It's appropriate that whenever the government is going to, or we are the Supreme Council, make decisions on fines, we don't have to think about whether or not it's going to bring about an increase or a decrease in social standards, or whether it's going to bring other things behind us. So, colleagues, I think it's a progressive law. We've been waiting for him for a long time. Yeah, there's actually some flaws, including I have some remarks, there's a point to business associations. But this is the first step you need to take, work on the second reading, and then take the next steps. Colleagues, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u42	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u43	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! In fact, the "Paternity" team supports viewing the minimum cost of living. Because it's really a very important thing, not just in the social sphere, but in the life of the entire Ukrainian society. And for the sake of justice, we should point out that this problem did not arise today or yesterday. And the problem is not just about the present authority. But I have a question. Where is the Prime Minister and the government when they consider such a bill? We have something to ask them as well as the entire Ukrainian people. Indeed, on December 20, 2018, the Constitutional Court annulled the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the consumer basket. Attention, December 20, 2018! After that, all governments failed to invite scientists, socialists and the public to calculate: What does a Ukrainian citizen need to live a year? One colleague said that he criticized the decision that had been annulled. Why hasn't the government prepared a decision now? There's a question for them. And this is the amount that has to be calculated annually before the adoption of the government budget. I also agree that this tariff network of office salaries that now exists does not withstand any criticism. Because a few tariffs, they're lower than the minimum wage. Where can such things be when they are drawn to the minimum wage in the budget, including the minimum wage? It's a nonsensence, and we have to keep order here too. Next thing. Indeed, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakova said that a working group had been formed and today will be the first meeting at 2:30 p.m. We invite all the people's deputies, representatives of the authorities, ministries of discussion -- what this constant size is. But in this option that's now being proposed, you can't take it. We see the position of trade unions and other professionals. Let's have a serious discussion, because we're going to create a fiscal, economic and financial collapse of the state structure. Once again, the Fatherland faction will not vote for such an editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u44	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u46	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It's here that we've been talking about calculations, over and over again, to scientists. We've figured out what we're going to have. I would like to draw attention to two important standards of this bill. The first is what is introduced in Article 96 of the Labour System, where the minimum wage of 1 tariff level will be 50 per cent of the minimum wage. What are we going to have? We're going to have 3,000 dollars. Yeah, that's more than it is today. $2,000 270 is a living minimum for working people. It's small, but it's growing. Our faction, I'm going to talk about it later, it insists that we return the standard that Mr. Yatsenuk and his government had once abolished when there was a minimum wage equal to the minimum wage of a minimum wage, i.e. $6,000, not $3. But anyway, if you're taking this law as a basis, 3,000 -- over 2,000 270 dollars. This time. The second is article 4 on how to establish the order of approval of the subsistence minimum. In the 21st year, this year, 40 percent of the average wage is proposed. I'm using the average from January to April, in 4 months, it's 13,000 dollars. If we take 40 percent, that's 5,000 205 dollars. Of course, this is more than two times today. But where is the conclusion of the budget committee, where is the conclusion of Minfin? And you understand the resource base of the state budget, how are you going to fill in to overcome this entire gap in the deficit budget that is today? It's not there. We have to see real calculations to level all of these things. The second point is that I would like to emphasize what needs to be done in our view. Because we see the Razumkov Center even gives us data that 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens consider the country's economic and social situation to be very bad, while 5 percent think it's good. Obviously, who does, but that's not the point. We have to understand that under such social projects we have to offer an economical and powerful resource base to fill the budget. So if we give a working enterprise, it has somewhere to pay 22 percent of the only social contribution. If we even take the same minimum wage -- if it's 6,000 or, more specifically, there's 18 percent of the VAT, 1.5 percent of the military community -- that's 4000 830 dollars per hand. They're not the kind of money we have to survive in this age of poverty in the country. And for that. In conclusion, if you really want to overcome the age of poverty: (a) a resource-based economic base, an increase in tax and congregation accounting, and the implementation of decent social policies within the country. I ask you to support my colleague’s bill, which offers restrictions on the supervisory boards in 10 minimums, and the attachment to minimum wage, and a number of other points. Because it's going to be better for the Ukrainians economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u48	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. Grandma Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u49	The Trust MP, Babenko Mikola, the White Church. Dear colleagues, what we call a minimum of living today is not even funny, it's embarrassing, it's 2,000 189 dollars, and for the disabled, it's 1 000 769. In fact, today, several million pensioners, who are incompetent persons, are receiving a minimum pension on that scale. I have always wanted to look into the eyes of the person or people who have determined that, for example, the pensioner’s subsistence minimum should be less than the subsistence minimum for other people. What less does a pensioner eat, less treatment, less pay for utilities? The answer is obvious. And today we're talking about that we shouldn't adopt this bill, it's, you know, it's groundless, and only people who really don't want to improve the social quality of our people's lives today can do that. But that would give us the adoption of the bill, and we supported it on the committee. First of all, he's taking down the minimum wage distribution: we don't share a pensioner anymore, we have to get that much, a working person -- so many, underage children -- another amount. It's coming off. This is the first time. Secondly, we're completely defusing the level of living minimum from the wishes of a common official who's sitting in his office in the Ministry of Finance or I don't even know where he's sitting because he's never been able to see that person. And he will not count on his own judgment as to how much a person or person must eat. There will be a clear attachment to the average wage that is in the state. I understand it's not like that. But it's at least a rejection of the many years of practice that we're socially defenseless, and we're driving the population in general into total failure. What the bill gives us. 40 percent of the average wage is positive. But as in every bill, there are downsides. First, this period is extended for many years when we get 40 percent. And we're going to apply and force Minfin to find additional resources. There's no additional resource -- say, reduce the number of deductions from 20 percent of government purchases to 10. Then you'll find the percentages that you'll pay to retirees. This is the first time. Secondly, it might be necessary to talk about an increase in the coefficient from 40 percent to at least 50 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u50	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u51	I think in this room there's no question in any of the national MPs that we really need to raise the minimum of living, and not only the minimum of living, but also the minimum wage, and the average wage and other social pay. But, dear colleagues, I quote literally, "The analysis of the project's position shows that it's not really about creating preconditions for raising the minimum of living." I'm the one who quoted GNEU to you. That's what I'm talking about. What kind of promotion are we talking about? The bill is nothing more than another attempt to establish, at the legislative level, a minimum-of-living manipulation. I also read without change: "The joint representative body of representative all-U.S. trade unions at the national level. " There is Mr. Rudik, their representative in Parliament. "The proposed standards of bill 3515 contradict the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Problems for the formation of living minimums in Ukraine." I'm quoting this from the fact that the unions sent it. They are against the adoption of this bill. He needs to be worked on and worked on. We now have an active bill supported by the International Labour Organization. The bill was not even discussed with them. What are we going to look like in front of our Western partners that you talk so much about if you haven't even consulted them on this bill? Next. The draft contains a large number of amendments to legislative acts, namely up to 20 bills. What is involved in raising the subsistence minimum with 20 legislative acts, including the Criminal and Administrative Codes? Next. Cancelling the minimum wage rate is not lower than the minimum wage for working persons. Trades against it and they don't support it. They do not support the inclusion of the financial capacity of the State budget and other economic factors into factors that are included in the definition of minimum wage. Say, so we're going to form this depending on the budget? Does anyone have a brain working in this session room? Third. Cancelling existing guarantees to determine the size of the office minimum wage (tariff rate). The crew minimum wage should be equal to the minimum wage, and that's what everyone's talking about. We will not support this bill in the first reading. He needs to be sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u52	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. A potter's boy?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, pass it on to the Potter Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u54	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u55	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you and I are seeing again that story that has already become a firm, a completely corporate card of our greatness and active power in general. Look what's going on. We all remember how loudly we were shouted that, look, victory, the Law on impeachment we have. In fact, there is no impeachment under this law. So it was just a envelope and the title of "The Law of Impeachment," and what's inside, no one reads. And that means saying what you want, as if there's a law, and it's not really there. Here's what we're seeing right now. We see the Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement and creation of preconditions for the creation of a minimum of living. Look at how well the prerequisites for raising the minimum of living are, and you want to give it a round of applause. But, my friends, let's read, and where is this law? Where is the basis in this law for raising the minimum of living? That's just not what I'm saying, not me, the national MP from the opposition, not just our faction of European Solidarity or the representatives of other factions, that's what the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority says. Here I am holding in my hand the conclusion of the GNEU, which clearly, the first paragraph, tells us that the bill has a name that I read, with the basic positions of the bill aimed at changing the approach to setting the minimum wage of employees, institutions financed from the budget. It is still concluded that the project does not contain any changes that directly form the basis for raising the subsistence minimum. Once again, this is the conclusion of the GNEU: the project does not contain any changes that directly form the basis for raising the subsistence minimum. And that means it's a lie again. There's no increase in the cost of living. There is an attempt to defuse the minimum wage, by the way, from the minimum wage. This means that we can continue to say that. We have a really low cost of living today. Tomorrow, the authorities can tell us that the cost of living is at least what they've calculated, it's now honest, and it's so high. But the minimum wage will no longer be given to the minimum wage. I went to the Supreme Council today, and my wife met me, and she came out of Kabina, and she said, "Tell me, please, in the Supreme Council, that we're going to get absolutely destructive money, we're going to beg." And instead of raising your salary, you're giggling people's heads with these. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u56	Now, speak to the national MPs. And let's go to the vote. Sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, it's actually very good that we're considering this bill in such an extended full procedure, because everything needs to be discussed. It's a very important question. The minimum size of living is the most painful question. And in the 16th year, it was the most painful. And we realized that the fundamental changes that you're trying to make right now, they're very necessary, extremely necessary. But I would like to draw attention to the first speech before considering this draft law. Well, you have to have absolutely no knowledge of how to calculate the minimum cost of living in a country. You can see when a person says that they counted clothes, shoes, medicines. So that's the norm of existing legislation. This is how the cost of living is calculated. So I think all these emotions are Komsomolian, or pioneer, and now I need to think about what really needs to be done and how to count. I was surprised that the GNEU’s conclusion was really overwhelming. I was very surprised by the absence of government and the fact that this bill was not an official one. Mrs. Galino, this should definitely be a government draft law because it has to balance the approach and the essence of those laws in many bills that are bound to the calculation of the minimum of living. That's why GNEU writes about it too. What do you change in other legislation? You're saying that you have a whole chapter, a transformation and a change in laws, about 17 to 20 of these laws exist in Ukraine. But without understanding the meaning, the essence of what's in those laws, because you're one committee, and that's about vitality in virtually every area of the economy. It seems to me that what Minfin wrote in his conclusion should be taken into account. That's the first thing they insist on, and I think the committee meant it, too, because you said in your speech that you should make a relationship to the relevant values. What are the relevant values? What does this mean to a standard of living? Yes, so the standard of living is defined by an indicator that is sufficient to consume basic material goods and services for humans. Otherwise you will not be able to provide a fair, transparent calculation of this value. The Ministry of Finance concluded that they are in favour of taking new approaches to the calculation and insisting on combined approaches, on new approaches. But you definitely have to do this with the Ministry of Finance and with the government. This is actually some kind of populism that is now being proposed. You don't have to play that. For a living minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u58	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, let's do it again. What we need to do is raise the cost of living at a minimum, I think this question certainly doesn't raise any doubt, regardless of the views, the political preferences in the economy. The other one. What the bill now proposes is a logical step. It's going to give us an opportunity to raise the cost of living at a minimum, because now every bracelet of raises, if you look at Minfin's conclusion, you'll see the cost of the budget. Because that was the case, we tied up a minimum wage a few years ago, but the subsistence minimum remained the category that is bound to both congregations and salaries, fines, and other qualifications, including offences. The third and most important is that the Voice faction has repeatedly addressed the committee, and we have found no compromise. Thank you very much both to the board's principals and to all members, and I hope that this question will be further elaborated on the second reading. What kind of question is that? We are now bound to the minimum of living, and we are bound by some of the qualifications of wrongdoing. This is of course a business concern, because, like us, every business representative for the minimum of living, for our people to live better and that's normal. But at the same time, it is illogical to do so in such a way that when we increase the welfare of our citizens, fines or levels of punishment are increased, and that is why it is a logical and proper step toward unifying these two figures. If we increase people's well-being, it should not be equal to when we increase the welfare of our guardians, who will collect more fines. That's why we're going to the committee, to the vast majority, to listen to these logical and correct business propositions about setting up fuses in this bill, on second reading. But of course, this initiative, which should be in our legislation, and which I hope will work fully from the following fiscal year, we support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Let us proceed to the vote, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the settlement and creation of preconditions for the creation of a minimum of living (registration number 3515). Ready to vote? 3515. Please support and vote. [[11:40:31]] For 253 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices to prohibit the sale of medicines to children (registration number 5122 and two alternatives). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:41:09]] For 253 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u61	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! The need for changes proposed in the bill is based on the situation of uncontrolled drug leave in Ukraine. For the time being, medical devices that need to be dispensed solely with prescriptions can be purchased peacefully, ignoring these restrictions, and sometimes even by pharmacists themselves can sell one or more medical devices and close their eyes to the absence of a prescription. Such phenomena are vivid examples of the situation where the legislative norm is, but they are not. Especially is this a critical case in which a minor buys medical supplies because he or she is not fully aware of the risks of misuse of a particular medicine when he or she is a child. According to the WHO World Organization, more than 60 percent of suicides are due to medical devices, and a higher percentage of them are children. According to OHMATDIT, we have about 70 children each year who end their lives by suicide. And so far there are great examples that have occurred in the Cherkas region of Kiev, where two children have been poisoned by a drone. Therefore, the substance of the bill is the bill set out to deal with uncontrolled abuse of medicines by minors and to contribute to a reduced number of cases of drug poisoning in order to reduce the number of suicides for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u62	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Solomon Dmitry Viktorovich, is invited to attend. You don't? National Deputy of Ukraine Placheva Tetjana Mikhailovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u63	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, today and now we are considering a very important, socially important bill prohibiting the sale of drugs to children. I absolutely don't want to count here all these tragic real consequences that we saw last year, last year. And it's clear that there are a lot of legislative initiatives on this topic, because we're all really worried about it. But what's the difference between the bill that I'm presenting right now and the main one? I want to show you, Your Honor, these are medical devices that are being delivered online in Ukraine. So the main difference in the bill that I'm presenting today is to ban and not only sell in a pharmacy for children, but also ban online sales. I very much hope that this room will actually unite, because it is not a matter of politics, it is not a matter of political interest at all, it is a question not of national MPs but of parents. Dear colleagues, you and I clearly understand that our children are constantly online today. And if we want to adopt a really important active bill, we have to accept this very alternative. Because it can be taken as a basis and in general, and it really works. So I ask you very much, dear colleagues, let's unite and adopt a truly working quality bill, and make sure that the medical facilities in Ukraine are not available to children, they could not be sold and made available so that there is no abuse of medicine, and we can ensure a truly quality future for our children. I look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u64	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u65	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Health of the Nation, Medical Care and Medical Insurance has considered basic and alternative bills: Draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 21 on Medical Devices (5122), on Amendments to the Law on Medical Devices (5122-1), and Bill on Amendments to the same Article (5122-2). All the bills proposed have the sole purpose of banning the sale of medical supplies to citizens who have not reached the age of 14. During the discussion of the bill, the National MPs noted that the basic bill 5122 not only proposes to prohibit the implementation of medicines to minors but also allows pharmaceutical workers to check the buyer’s age if there is doubt as to his age. By law, registration number 5122, as opposed to the basic one, is proposed to specify that the implementation of medicines is prohibited for minors purchased online. Such clarification does not affect the substance of the bill, but it overburdens it. In addition, in any case, a pharmacy that should follow the rules of dispensation and ban on selling them to minors is being implemented either directly or via the internet. As a result of the legislative debate, the committee concluded that the most balanced was Bill 5122. In view of this, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, to adopt, as a whole, the draft Act amending Article 21. To entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to undertake its technical and legal work in preparation for the signing of the Supreme Council. Alternative Bills 5122 and 5122-2, and 5122-1 reject. Thank you and please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u66	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against the factions. The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u67	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. Please pass the word to Sergio Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u68	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u69	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, should this bill be adopted? Absolutely. There are mothers and fathers in this room who are raising children. And when we hear about the tragedies, like in Boyarca, when two kids, two girls went on a break and bought no-spy pills and drank 40 pills. Whoever was selling, first of all, has to know. The police have not yet investigated this issue. Second, one girl was unable to save -- she died. It's not just for parents, it's for society at all. The second girl, 12 years old, was barely removed from this pit, virtually from the dead. Who will be responsible? By the way, if parents are sick, they can contact neighbors to go and buy these drugs. And to send kids, 40 pills that they drink, or they read something in social media today, we see -- suicide, suicide, suicide. Ladies and gentlemen, I have five children, five. Thank God, the elder is 27. And we need to keep an eye on our parents. But can we do that? You have to make every seller, and in stores you don't sell tobacco, and you don't sell alcohol, and you don't sell drugs that can poison our children, Ukraine. We need to take care of the future, we need to take care of Ukraine, we need to take care of our children. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u70	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, this bill appeared in the winter when there was a tragic situation with schoolgirls from Boyarka who went and actually bought drugs in the pharmacy without a prescription. And one of the girls really couldn't be saved. That incident was very loud, and it was then that our committee colleagues registered this important bill. But there are actually a lot of such cases. Indeed, the World Health Organization says that drug poisoning is one of the most common methods of suicide, including among teenagers. Unfortunately, with you, we cannot control the environment of each child, its motivation. But as legislators, we have to do everything we can and depend on us to limit our ability to harm young children. That is why we will be sure to uphold this basic bill. I want to point out, we've analyzed both alternatives, and the main one also takes into account restrictions on the sale of drugs to minors, including online. That's why this bill is, in our opinion, the most complex. I want to thank the colleagues who initiated this bill. It's a shame we've been looking at him for six months. I think we've lost more lives during this time, but we've finally reached that time. So I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u72	Comer Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Texco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u74	Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u75	(Someone took the medicine out of here.) Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to ask you to support 5122-2, because unfortunately, in the previous, basic bill and in the first alternative, there is no norm on the prohibition of online drug sales. Is this important to us today? Yeah, it's important. Do we want to take a step toward the health and safety of our children? I'm sure we do. If we don't accept and clearly fail to record the online sales ban, we will never achieve that goal. It's going to be an exclusive declarant law, it's going to be a declarant rule that never works. Yeah, I know there might be a violation, but we still have to mention it directly in the law. And it's absolutely not true that somewhere there's a ban on online sales, it's a free and open market. And then, when adults today find it very convenient, we need to protect children from online drug sales. So, colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support exactly 5122-2. And I very much ask the room to also support the alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u76	The hammer. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u77	Irina Konstankevich, Wolin, 23th constituency, Future Group. Our parliamentary group will certainly support this bill, given that we believe that this problem is real, complex and complex. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the official statistics that exist unfortunately do not reflect the real state of affairs. In fact, there are many more of these cases. In fact, they have to do with the trends in youth, the trends among our schoolchildren. And our job with you is not just to go through bans. Because the bill, both chief and alternate, prohibits selling to children under the age of 14. We also need to anticipate a wide range of comprehensive information work. Connect all possible channels of television, printed editions, to develop these myths that are established in the youth environment. Our deputies who work in the districts, I mean majors, they know the real state of affairs. And we think we need to combat this phenomenon not only by banning it, but by predicting all possible forms of information and education work. And also include law enforcement agencies that will control the implementation of these laws. That's why we're supporting the main bill. But thank you to all the authors of the alternatives who have joined in solving this problem. And we think we need to work on the second reading by adding the standards that are in the alternative bill under graph 2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u78	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. After that, Krulko. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u79	Thank you. This bill is really very important. And today we will support it. A few arguments to understand why this is important. Each year more than 800,000 people in the world are involved. More than 800,000 people end their lives by suicide. 60 percent of these people are minors, that is, children. At the same time, most child suicides occur in countries where income is either middle or low. In the second place, the method of suicide is the method of taking medication. Now, of course, we need to be very complex about this situation at all. And sooner or later, I dream that in our country as a whole it will be forbidden to sell not only to children but also to adults without a prescription, and we will still bring these rules to European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u80	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u81	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction certainly understands the problem that has arisen today, when, unfortunately, teenagers under the influence of different social networks can be involved in deadly helmets. And this has happened in Ukraine when children bought medical supplies, used them more than anything else, and this could even result in fatalities. So, of course, this problem needs to be settled, but always think about the balance that happens when children go to buy medicine for old grandmothers, and no one else buys it, and only a child can do it at the request. So this is definitely going to be a balance right over here. As Fatherland, we will support Bill 5122-2 as an alternative because it is more complete. And it includes a very important ingredient that applies to online drug purchases in the context of putting the responsibility for selling to minors online.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] No one was speaking from "Slut." Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Colleagues, a little clarification. Law 5122 contains a standard that is distributed to all licensing conditions for the sale of medical supplies. And even if the online operator is licensed to sell drugs (we have recently passed a law that allowed online commerce), he has to do the same licensing conditions as the pharmacy. He has no right to sell drugs to minors after the law has been enacted. Thus, it is simply a repetition of the law and of article 21 of the Law on Medicine and Medical Devices.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u84	Based on what? Two factions against. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 21 of the Law on Medical Devices on the Prohibition of the Sale of Medical Devices to Children (registration No. 5122). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:59:58]] For 306 Decision taken. 12:00. I'll announce a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. With your permission, a few announcements. First. I was asked by some national MPs to draw the attention of other national MPs to the use of acos within the Supreme Council and asked them not to do so, but to go beyond the premises. The other one. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union "Response Initiative". The head of this association was Kasay Hennadija Alexandrovich, a national deputy of Ukraine. Welcome, colleague. And another interfractional union. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Ratification of the Istanbul Convention". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch, was elected head of this association. I also welcome my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, there is now an offer to vote four out-of-order elections without discussion. Is there no objection? None. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the Nadlatski Rural Head of the Golovanov district of Kirovograd. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:34:29]] For 254 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Ulanian Rural Head of the Hmielnicke District of Vinnitsk (Registration No. 5569). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:35:03]] For 270. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Order on the appointment of the Extraordinary Elections of the Kamyanec-Podil Region of the Hmelnitsk Region (Registration No. 5567). Please support and vote. [[12:35:33]] For 276 I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Kelmenack Village Head of the Dniestrov Region of Cherniewec Region (Registration No. 5568). Please support and vote. [[12:36:04]] For 280 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases (COVID-19) to address specific issues of social protection for medical workers affected by coronary disease (registration number 5415). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:36:46]] For 224 How about no discussion, dear colleagues? Discussing? The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend. Give it up to four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u88	Thank you. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, Bill 5415 is aimed at improving the mechanism of insurance payments to medical personnel who have become ill with COVID-19 in the course of their professional duties and as a result have been disabled. The bill relates to article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases, the current standard states that insurance payments are made to medical personnel in the event of disability in the course of a calendar year. The budget code defines the calendar year from January 1 to December 31. The limits of the calendar year do not allow for payment of medical bills in 2020, but for example, he received a disability group in 2021. As a result, health workers lose their right to compensation, since it usually takes several months to establish disability, so it is quite common. In Bill 5415, we clean up our ties to the calendar year and provide an opportunity to pay to those who, because of this technical inaccuracies, were deprived of State funds. The drafters, all without exception members of the National Health Committee, passed the bill. The bill is also fully supported by the Ministry of Health. The Committee supported Bill 5415 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law and entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, undertake its technical and legal work in preparation for the signing of the Supreme Council. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u89	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Mealer Victor Nichiporovich. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that legislative money is needed to support all the halls. But the question arises in another way. Why now, today we have the beginning of the summer of 2021, we are amending the law that was passed in April and was signed by the President on May 7, 2020? The first stand, made by a majority, was in April 2020, you remember, this outrageous fact, when the current costs of the Social Insurance Fund were limited, which resulted in tens of thousands of people in sanatoriums without treatment, without payment for treatment at rehabilitation centers. Sick of cranial trauma, after strokes, after burns, after orthopaedics, many other diseases and injuries, people were limited by the end of last year to be treated after these diseases. At the end of last year, after great pressure from the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, this was resolved. There have been changes to the budget for the 20th year, and these people have begun to receive payments. Now we have the same thing, only on the other side. The Social Insurance Fund is unable to pay for today's expenses if, for example, a human doctor got sick in November 20th, and the MSEC gave him a disability group in January 21st. Using the legislative rule that payments are to take place in the same calendar year, a person cannot receive payment to the Social Security Fund. Well, can't you see all this coming when you're adopting a bill, a majority society? These are basic things that then cost many people health, time, and nerves, and for many, life. We vote "yes" and we don't make similar mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u91	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u93	Zinkevich Jan Viktorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u94	Thank you. Colleagues, we're going to support this bill, it's purely technical. And now there's a problem if a medical doctor who got sick with the Coroner and got disabled as a result, he can't get paid if he was assigned a disability group in the next calendar year. So if in fact a person was sick, for example, in November, the disability got in December, I'm sorry, in January, it doesn't claim these payments. That's why we support him. And we also want to make an additional point that, of course, it's very important that the mono-largest also listen to other initiatives of "European Solidarity" concerning the fight against the coronavirus. We remember that at the beginning of the epidemic, our legislative initiatives on both health insurance and death insurance and disability were initially blocked. So please pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u95	Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u96	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please support this extremely important bill and proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u97	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u98	Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u99	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u100	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I want to say right away that the "Paternity" faction will support this bill, because among the authors we owe are our representatives of the "Paternity" faction, which are part of the Health Committee. But I also want to raise two sharp questions about insurance medicine. First. Of course, Yulia Timoshenko and the experts were given a clear guide to the Ministry of Health in the form of a bill, which unfortunately is not directed by Parliament and faction leaders in the session room, namely Bill 3464 of Yulia Timoshenko on mandatory medical insurance. I want to say that this bill clearly provides that Ukrainian citizens can have, if we adopt this law in Ukraine, in parliament, financial assistance to ensure that there are no health problems, they have no funding problems. It is meant that unprotected segments of the population will be accompanied financially by the State and that the State will have to anticipate these costs. And those who work at work, men and women, will be financially accompanied by employers. And the second. Of course, I want to draw attention to the fact that the National Health Service is now, taking into account probably the financial deficit, trying to cut costs and thus reduce the number of support hospitals. Have we, dear fellows, already defeated COVID, that we will shut down the cadaver hospitals? Thus, it is unacceptable that the National Health Service should not do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u101	Now Schuffritch with a motive, then Stefanisin, and we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, the situation yesterday, because we have yesterday's data, I emphasize, it's not statistics, it's data on the number of Ukrainian dead. And that can't be statistics for us, because after every death, it's family, pain and grief. So now we are third in Europe and nine in the world. If we compare the number of people killed to the number of people, we are now twice ahead of India. Of course, under these conditions, we will uphold this law, which will in any way help our doctors. But the fact that we're the last ones to be vaccinated today is that we're proud of the fourth point of mass vaccination. There's got to be 4,000 of them. In the United States, 300 million people were vaccinated, and we are a million. This is a disgrace. This is a crime against the people for whom it must be responsible! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u103	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, of course, we will support the bill that is under consideration today because it provides more opportunities for our medics to get insurance payments. But I want to take this opportunity to tell you the story of Oleg Hyde, who died of the Coronavirus on June 30, and his relatives have not yet received payment. His son has been unfaithful for almost a year in Ukrainian courts and commissions. Three committees have already established that Oleg Hyde has become ill with the coronavirus on the job. But the Social Insurance Fund didn't have that. They tried their relatives and tried them all the time with the relatives of a dead doctor to avoid paying off the state’s money. On April 30, the court finally made a positive decision, but by June 11, it had to wait for this payment to take place, and the fund could still appeal. So I just want you to understand when we're adopting our laws, how bad they're being implemented in places. And I want to call on our government to finally help the medics, not humiliate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 39 of the Act on Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases, dealing with specific issues of social protection for medical workers affected by coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 5415). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:48:47]] For 332 I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Please support and vote. [[12:49:12]] For 337 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the draft Act amending article 42-4 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the sale of medicines to children (registration number 5123, 5123-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:49:49]] For 257 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Your Honor! The bill is designed to provide administrative responsibility for the release of medical supplies to citizens under 14 years of age. The project proposes a new edition of article 42 of the Code of Administrative Offences, thus establishing administrative responsibility for the sale of pharmaceuticals to citizens under the age of 14. Such a violation entails punishment for the guilty in the form of a fine of 6 to 25 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. In the case of a repetitive year of such an offence, for which a person has already been subjected to administrative sequestration, the administrative responsibility lies with imposing a fine of 25 to 70 untaxed minimums on Ukrainian citizens. This bill is systematically related to the draft Law on Amendments to Article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, which you and I have just supported, regarding the prohibition of the sale of medicines to children and is derived from them. But given the conclusion of the committee, I will not insist on the adoption of my bill and on the proposal of colleagues to support an alternative bill that more comprehensively regulates legal and organisational regulation in the field of combating uncontrolled drug abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u107	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Plačkov Tetjana Mikhaylovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, you and I have already considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, which I hope will effectively prohibit the sale of children, underage children, medicines in pharmacies. Now you and I understand clearly that the law will not work if there is no force that can force. So we suggest that the copyright team of this bill propose to establish an administrative, at least administrative responsibility for such violations. Our bill foresees that the responsibility should be borne directly by those who are involved in the field of sales, i.e. by pharmacies and persons who deliver drugs home. We are confident that either the drug seller or the courier who delivers them must be liable at least in the form of a fine. And if this offence is repeated, this fine will increase. There have been a lot of discussions at the Law Enforcement Committee, and I am grateful to my colleagues for supporting this very bill, with regard to who should establish the acts, and who should at all make sure that there are no such violations. And together we came to the conclusion that this should be the National Police. Because we realize that the Civil Service, unfortunately, is actually losing its functions, it's not exercising its powers today. What they themselves have stated is that they cannot exercise these powers under this bill. Therefore, the responsibility must be irrevocable and must arise if these violations are to be committed. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. And indeed to establish responsibility, strict responsibility for these offences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have, in principle, considered a similar bill today. Perhaps without discussion? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 42-4 of the Code of Administrative Offences for the Sale of Medical Devices to Children (Registration No. 5123-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:54:17]] For 319 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for service negligence if it has caused the death of a person (registration number 4634). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:54:58]] For 245 Dear colleagues, is discussion necessary? Yes, this is necessary. Mamka Grigory Mikolayovich, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to attend. None. The head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u110	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council Committee on Law Protection considered bill 4634 at its meeting. The purpose of the bill is to increase criminal responsibility for service negligence if it has caused the death of the individual himself. The bill proposes Article 367 "Service Carelessness" of the Criminal Code to complement Part Three, which provides for criminal responsibility for the actions defined in Part One of this article if they have caused the death of a person. At present, we have only significant damage and serious consequences, that is, the material makeup of crime. If we are talking about a person’s death, we do not have such a quality. We have this bill supported by all the principal organs. This is, in particular, the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Attorney General’s Office, the National Police. Thus, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u111	Thank you. Please write down: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u112	Please pass the word to the High Priest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u113	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u114	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Dear colleagues, the bill provides for amendments to article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, "Service negligence", which is proposed to be allocated to a separate chapter – the service negligence that has caused the death of a person, and to establish appropriate criminal responsibility for the crime. Sounds right, but there are a number of comments to the bill. The definition of "hard consequences" is given in footnote 4 to article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code as consequences, which are 250 times more than the untaxed minimum income of citizens. In doing so, court practice shows that it is possible to attribute material damage not only to material harm but also immaterial if it can be measured in monetary terms. Moreover, the approach proposed by the authors of the bill does not allow us to determine how to classify other crimes in this section of the Criminal Code. For example, an employee of a law enforcement authority or an abuse of authority or a position of service in the event of a person’s death. Therefore, in order to achieve the goal declared by the drafters of the bill, it is necessary to make changes to article 364, which will allow for the clear determination that the loss of a person is a serious consequence in all the relevant articles, where reference is made to severe consequences, rather than making certain changes to each article with such definitions. This will allow us to address the issue raised in the bill by a more comprehensive and systematic understanding of all the rules of the Criminal Code of the present chapter rather than by violating the integrity of the criminal law system to characterize crime and to punish other articles of the Criminal Code. Therefore, the "Trust" group will not vote on the bill and urge the authors not to balance the standards of the Criminal Code. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u115	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u116	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergei Alekseyev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u117	Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u118	Sergey Alekseyev, faction of European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to provide for criminal responsibility for the service negligence that has caused the death of a person. The point is that today, article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for responsibility for service negligence if this service negligence has only led to material damage, that is, we have only material crime. But lately the events that have happened. The situation is the fires in Odessa and in Kharkiv that caused the death of the people involved in the improper performance of their duties. So the faction of "European Solidarity" will only support this bill in the first reading. This is due to the fact that the bill has a number of legal disagreements that need to be settled before the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u119	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u120	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will support this bill, in fact, only in the first reading, because there are many disagreements that have been written by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in its conclusion. At the same time, I point out that the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which certainly supports the very idea of the bill, advocates that it be accepted. However, it notes that the proposed changes are not systematic, since they do not address the question of the qualifications of other crimes in the field of service, which have resulted in significant damage or serious consequences of immaterial nature. That's why we're paying attention. And we also point out as professional lawyers that it was certainly appropriate to make such changes, not in 367th, but in the footnote to article 364. And that's where we can determine that the consequences can be severe, which are 250 times more than the untaxed minimum of citizens' income or cause the loss of lives. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we urge the Supreme Council to vote, to support in the first reading. Of course, it needs to be worked out, and those remarks that I just said, we're like the national MPs of the Party for the Future group, not only are we paying attention to you, but we're going to be preparing for the second reading in the form of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for not having had the opportunity, in fact, to present a bill on my own account. But it will be helpful to speak out of motives last and to tell some of the national MPs who are really on the right. You can talk about change and materiality. Why isn't there an RV on the 286? Because in my opinion and in the opinion of the Supreme Court, life cannot be valued in material terms. As far as the events in Odessa are concerned, note that 367th is being brought to justice. In the speech of the law enforcement authorities, it is not the responsibility of the court to choose a protective defense — keeping the watch. Do you remember the violations of the rights of fire safety and the events in Kharkiv? They were qualified for another article, not a nuisance at all, and the final outcome would be a nuisance. And the sanctions foreseen in 367 are completely unforeseeable by these actual punishments. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u123	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. But as long as the colleagues are taking care of their own. I'm sorry. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich with a motive, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill, it is important for legal regulation. To my profound conviction, there is nothing to change essentially to a second reading, since part three is foreseen for service negligence. For example, if there was a fire somewhere in connection with the failure of the rescuer or firefighters to verify the safety of fire and we lost people, they would be responsible for a special part of the special norm. And so what they're saying is that the notes have to be copied is the wrong option, because the notes are of a general nature, and there are several norms. Therefore, the stated proposal of the National MP Mamka, the bill, I urge you to support both on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u125	On the basis and in general, there are no objections? Two factions against? Three, I see. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for service negligence if it has caused the death of a person (registration number 4634). Please support and vote. [[13:05:35]] For 302 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement (Registration Nos. 4662 and 4662-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[13:06:13]] For 251 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u126	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, bill 4662 amending chapter X of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act was developed on the basis of the National Health Committee and submitted by a majority of its composition. The main objective of the bill is to eliminate the existing conflict between the existing laws of Law 531-IX, which was adopted in March 2020, in the application of contracts governing access to public procurement procedures, with the aim of ensuring the access of chronically ill and difficult patients to original and innovative medicines. It is about treating orphan patients, treating oncology, and other complex pathologies. In particular, the bill proposes, as a pilot project, not to extend the Public Procurement Act until December 31, 2023 in case original medical devices are the subject of purchase. Establish the obligation to publish information on such purchases and annual reports in the electronic system. For the purpose of levelling corruption risks, it is necessary to determine the need for the Cabinet of Ministers to agree with the National Health Committee on the number of medical devices purchased under controlled access contracts. To determine the need for an evaluation of medical technologies, to establish that in the case of a state registration in Ukraine of a generic medical device, a contract of controlled access is terminated. Unlike the drafting of the alternative bill 4662-1, the committee bill provides: a clear deadline for the law until December 31, 2023, the Commission’s obligation to agree on a list of medical devices, which is the main consideration by the Committee on Economic Development, as well as by the National Health Committee, to adopt bill 4662 as a basis. On behalf of the copyright team and as the head of the profiling committee, please support the basic bill 4662. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u127	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. The first Deputy Minister of Health, Sadowiak Irina Dmitrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u128	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, first of all, I want to thank you for all the laws you have passed today and for the medical supplies, and for the insurance of health workers, it is very important to us. With regard to the bill presented to you today, the Ministry of Health proposed its bill and the difference was only what Mikhailo Borisovich said. But to date, the Ministry of Health still believes that a committee bill should be adopted, and the changes to the bill proposed by the committee are quite appropriate. Because by setting certain time limits, we do realize that if something goes wrong, we can change that. And a very important point is the proposed position to agree with the committee on a profile list of medicines, and this will reduce the risk of corruption. So we ask you to adopt the bill, which is presented by the profiling committee, as a basis. And that's a law we really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u129	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Muchan Aleksy Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u130	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 12 April 2021 in video conference mode considered alternative bills 4662 and 4662-1 on amending the Public Procurement Act and the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law on ensuring the possibility of purchasing medical devices under controlled access contracts and decided to support the MP's Bill 4662 and to reject Government Bill 4662-1. Both of these bills contain, for the most part, similar positions. At the same time, Bill 4662 proposes to introduce the relevant amendments temporarily by December 31, 2023, rather than on a permanent basis, as proposed by the government bill. According to the National Deputies of the Committee, the mechanism proposed by the People's Deputies of the Raducci and other Ukrainian National Deputies to purchase original innovative medical devices under controlled access contracts will facilitate transparency in the procurement of such medical devices and effective monitoring of the implementation of managed access contracts, and the established safety nets will make it impossible to abuse this area. In addition, we report that the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Health, Health and Health Insurance supports the adoption of Bill 4662 on first reading, and proposes Bill 4662-1 to be rejected. Instead, the Ministry of Health notes that Bill 4662 needs further work. The committee therefore recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 4662, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u131	Thank you. Please write down: two for, two for, and no, from factions and MPs. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u132	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u133	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u134	Thank you. Our faction will not support this bill because there are serious observations, including with experts on the corruption of the bill. Today, everything related to the health of the nation, especially the purchase of medical equipment and medicines, must be transparent. And if an open ProZorro site is created, there should be a purchase. And here's the "buffer-machers" and "schematosis" they're not going to take. You're different, you're new faces, but we're very familiar with our actions. What is it? Doesn't it give you peace of mind that you're doing the same thing with new flowers? I believe that this law discriminates against the "Serve of the people" as corrupt as one that allows for the enjoyment of human health and life. So I urge you to stop. You want to be both green and fluffy, well that's not how it works, it's either green or white and clean. That's why I understand the drive to greens, but I understand you, but probably not with your "new faces" very even cute. But I see Uncle Sam right behind you. So, please, stop this insolence. I understand that money is needed -- make money on asphalt, build roads. But stop robbing and making money for your health. Fifty thousand people killed by COVID are the price that Ukrainians pay today for "Power." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u135	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u137	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium! I mean, essentially these two bills are similar. Their key difference is the terms that are proposed to introduce a special procedure for the conclusion of managed access contracts. 4662 is a provisional rule until December 31, 2023, and the government is proposing not to set a term. So I want to make a statement to the bill in three key positions. Position one is an undefined concept of "original or innovative medicine." The second position is the absence of a clear procedure for monitoring controlled access contracts. And the third position is that there are no adequate prerequisites for a state assessment of medical technologies. Ukraine is not new in those treaties because in Europe these agreements are inherent. And I want to say that the specific point in Bill 4662 is the standard of agreement with the Committee on National Health, Health Care, Health Insurance, a list of medicines that can be purchased under management contracts. But with all due respect to the committee, that doesn't go into the committee's mandate circle, because we have the Constitution of Ukraine. And I want to say that the political party and the European Solidarity faction are ready to support Bill 4662 if there are any changes to the second reading that I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u139	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u140	Stefaniz's Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u141	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I think many of us here have seen and remembered a small House with a spinal muscular atrophy, which half of the country was raising money for a single shot worth over $2 million. Thank God, Dimi has raised money. But people like Dima are now hundreds in Ukraine. And I personally believe that it is for the State to buy drugs for those with orthodontic diseases, cancers, and so on. Sadly, however, even nations cannot afford to buy drugs at such high prices. In order to reduce them, there is a mechanism such as controlled access contracts. Such mechanisms work in many developed countries — both in the United States, France, Belgium, and elsewhere. What are they doing? They allow the state to negotiate directly with manufacturers. At times, 90 percent of these drugs are discounted, but they are not disclosed in order to prevent other countries from making use of them. We have to let Ukrainian patients receive these medicines at the expense of the state. And this is the mechanism that this bill says will allow. But we know very well that in Ukraine, especially with the previous minister, there is a sad experience of purchasing in general. So in the committee, we've worked on really, really safeguards that will enable us to control this process. And the first is, of course, the monitoring by the Committee on the Health of the Nation of the census, which will be determined for this mechanism. The second is the publication of all the information, except the price, in reports that will be published in ProZorro. And of course, we propose to make this project temporary to see how it will work in Ukraine. Because not everything that works abroad works well for us. We will now support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u143	The alien Boris Viktorovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u144	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, transparency must be in everything, in all purchases. And responsibility must also be for everything. Two years in power today. Someone was punished for that transparency? Where is the responsibility for the anchor fund? How much money did they spend? I demand of Kabmin today – and therefore the deputies today support and give their bill – I demand that Kabmin check the full operation of all hospitals and purchases in the Luhansk region. In particular, Severodonetska, Lysicánska, where military and civilian administrations are insolently robbing officials and the head of the military and civilian administration of the Lugansk region of Hayday. Also, the Bilovodsk Hospital, where 5 million coins disappeared from the hedge fund. Next, I also call on Kabmin to point out that the determination is to have children of war cook for free in all schools, in Kiev there will be one child eating who moved, a migrant, and in the Luhansk region there are 250,000 people. Only the BICU will pay 5 million dollars out of its budget and the hole in its budget. We demand that Kabmin pay immediate attention to this and give Donbass a grant to children of war who are not being paid attention at all, except that yesterday was the Day of Child Protection. Who protects them that way? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u145	Nekludov Vladlen Mikhailovich, then we vote for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u146	Lord Nekludov, faction of the Servant of the People. It's Nestor Ivanovich standing there at the speaker's stand, he said that our faction, it's very green, it's so prone and our "rifle into the gun." I think that, Nestor Ivanovich, it's quite incorrect in your view, because proud of the separatists, your spiritual leader, your mentor, your publicity move to Russia, he was trading coals with the former president. We don't have anything to do with this. And to accuse us of having a bearing on green or our "kidney-to-gun" is not right. And so I'm asking you to support this bill, and I think it's appropriate. And I think we should vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u147	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the provision of access contracts for the purchase of medical devices (Registration No. 4662) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:22:37]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have seen various things in the Supreme Council. The struggle for office was different, but the struggle for leadership of the interparliamentary group of friendships I see for the first time in 20 years of presence in this room. A strange thing happened yesterday. Of the 63 members of the Hungarian-Ukrainian Friendship Group, 34 representatives of the "Serve of the People" were called out of office, two national deputies. Two, by the way, the only Hungarians on this council are me and my colleague, Valer Lunchenko. For what? But we got it. For who is the third person to influence in Ukraine after the President, after the head of the Jermak-Kola Office. Lukashenko has his Kola and Zelensky and Hermak have his Kola. I'm asking the question: Kolya, how Hungarian are you? You're Oblonsky. Where are you going? [[B in m in s a l in]] You know, it's a matter of honor. If you want to call it off. Yeah, I'm asking Cole Obolonian to give a line. You have to have the honor of everything. You want to call it off -- invite me, at least write "happy list." Ask us if we're coming or not coming, it's already our right. But out of 63 members of the inter-parliamentary group of friendships, they're only going to call on their own, well, not even revolutions. If you think you've somehow influenced our position, no. But if you think that you're going to improve the Ukrainian-Hungarian relationship, then I know exactly what you're doing. Two Hungarians: my grandmother is Hungarian, my mother is in Valerie. And we're really doing everything we can to improve the relationship between our countries. But. [[Presentation in a Foreign Language]] Come on, bye! Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u149	Thankfully, you have not mentioned any Ukrainian national MPs, so there are no reps. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to attend. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! You are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (Registration No. 5376). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:26:39]] For 243 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Czernjev Yegor Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u150	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear Kolya! Today I ask you to support Bill 5376, which sets the best tax conditions in Europe for the IT sector. This is one of the bills in the series on the Diya City legal and tax regime. The first one we voted with you a month ago on our first reading. This bill offers enormous opportunities for domestic IT business. First, Diya City's resident companies will be able to choose which tax to pay them, a tax on profits of 18 percent or a 9 percent tax on capital output. Secondly, there will be new tax conditions for salaries – 5 per cent of VAT, 1.5 per cent of the military community and 22 per cent of the EU's minimum wage. There's no secret today that most IT companies work through FOP. But it does not allow foreign investment to be involved and create its own IT product in Ukraine. In fact, today it's fixed by Ukraine in the "getto" outsourcing where Ukrainian boys and girls work, and they get billions of foreign companies. From tax cuts, there's actually not going to be a reduction in revenue to the budget, there's going to be an increase, because Diya City is going to detinize the entire sector, and the military community, which is not paying FOPs right now, is going to be paying the resident companies Diya City. Bill 5376 was publicly supported by the European Business Association, the Federation of Ukrainian Employers, the Association for "IT Ukraine" and others. So today I'm asking you to support these changes that are about to happen. Please support Bill 5376. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u151	The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Didenko Julia Alexandrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u152	Honorable Presidium, colleagues, after such a vivid report, a hundred percent support to the hall, I think it will be. The Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, at its meeting on 13 May, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (Registration No. 5376). This project is systematically related to a bill to stimulate the development of the digital economy in Ukraine (registration number 4303), adopted by the Supreme Council. The bill is proposed as part of the corporate income tax to establish a specific order of calculation and payment of the tax at 9 percent. A 5 - percent interest rate is set in the income tax. Part of the only contribution to the compulsory social insurance is proposed to set a minimum premium for residents of Diya City and 22 per cent for the remuneration of natural persons for their contracts. The main scientific and expert management generally does not deny the need to improve IT tax issues in Ukraine. Today, the IT industry is a major sector of the country's economy. Exports of Ukrainian IT in the 20th year are cut by 20 percent and above $5 billion. The total export share of computer services is 8.3 percent. So the creation of a space with tax benefits that will concentrate the activities of all IT entities corresponds to both world experience and today. The Committee supports this initiative and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of Ukraine's Digital Economy. Please support the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u153	Thank you. Please write down: two for, two for, two for, from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u154	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! So where is the logic in the actions of the governing authority? I don't understand. In the Digital Transformation Committee, Bill 4303 is still in preparation for the second reading. We know we barely voted in the hall, 227 votes. We know that in the list of activities that will be subject to the special standards of Dia City, there are non-industries for the IT industry. This is a huge service area. And today we are looking at tax benefits for the unknown. We don't even know the range of services that will fall under these tax benefits that we've just talked about. I think you should also pay attention to the registered petition just as well. Thousands of employees and those working in the IT sphere don't exactly support the launch of this special norm, a special system separate from this sector is Dia City. And for the rest of the support you've been talking about. Project 5376 will allow the country to create a progressive, transparent and efficient environment for the development of high technologies, providing for the introduction in Ukraine of one of the best tax incentives for the development of IT industry. Do you think who said that? These are quotes in support of a draft law by the director of a Ukrainian company. But do you know what kind of activity this company is doing? It's a gambling organization and everybody knows this company. Because it is tax benefits for online casino organizers that will be provided by this bill that you are considering today. Absolutely impossible changes, unthinkable. I don't know where the Ministry of Finance is again. Why isn't the Ministry of Finance here now? Why don't you think about what will happen to the local budgets that this law will have to pay for the minimum wage paid. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u156	The word is given to the national deputy, Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, we are now considering a very important bill. Why it's important because the export of IT services has increased to almost 8 percent of our export structure. For the record, less than 10 years ago it was less than 1 percent. Again, if we're talking about exports of IT services, we have 4.5 billion. We get 3 from wheat exports with something billion. That's why this bill is awesome, but we have to accept it correctly. It's very bad that when we discuss initiatives for IT, some associations speak fairly about their observations and the Voice faction and the Voice party hears them. So that's why this bill, unlike the previous one, we're willing to support it in the context of the two workflows that business insists on. The first is that 5 percent of the VAT will be paid not only by the wages themselves, but also by any payments and bonuses that come with this salary. The amendment of the second number, which is already reflected in the Committee's decision, is that it will be possible to pay the ECB from a minimum calculation, at a minimum premium. Dear colleagues, this bill is extremely important, but we need to work on it. I'm very much asking that when we take initiatives for IT, we first ask associations, businesses, what exactly do they need. And so that we don't offer them worse terms, but rather better. And then nations will earn more and more, and our businessmen will bring more currency into this state. So in the first reading, we will support it, and in the second, we insist on further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u158	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Batenek Taras Ivanovich. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group of the political party "Rebirth," suggests "Rebirth", "For the Future" suggests supporting this bill. And we understand that this is actually very important for the Ukrainian IT sector, because we're essentially raising and putting on our feet a branch that exports not raw materials, but a branch that exports high technology. All the countries in the world are trying to get these sectors back together, make them the most favourable conditions to raise budgets, to fill the budgets of their countries, and to put on their feet the most promising sector that makes high profits. This bill provides an opportunity to actually reduce tax burden on aitian companies, allowing investors to come to Ukraine who will invest in this sector and who will actually be able to create new jobs, without getting money out of Ukraine, without getting raw materials out of Ukraine, without turning Ukraine into a raw supplement to some big countries, and creating intellectual jobs that allow young people to get on their feet and not run away from the country. So our MPs are going to support this bill, we're definitely willing to encourage it to be worked out if anyone has a point to make it work in Ukraine. And, believe me, the whole story area, all the programmers working in Ukraine, are going to thank every deputy who's going to support it today, it's a real step forward, and it needs to be done. Ukraine is to become a modern, promising, interesting country that exports high technology, not raw materials. And that's what we're always doing: manufacturing our own Ukrainian, it's industry, it's high technology, it's symbiosis that's going to give Ukraine a future. Thank you. We are for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u160	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u161	Please pass the word Volosin Oleg Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u162	Please, Oleg Anatolyovich Vlorosyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill. We really think that's one of the few, unfortunately, examples where the ruling majority focused on making better conditions in practical terms for the growth of the Ukrainian economy, the Ukrainian business. Maybe even the implementation of this bill will allow them to put into practice the idea that they run around in some circles to win over and work in Ukraine from Belarus. But the question is different. And is this bill going to help keep gas prices on our gas stations at the same level as they are, not increase at the same time because they're going to stop gas supplies from Belarus? Will this allow you to save 3 billion of our exports to Belarus? Does this bill satisfy the interests of Kiev Airport, which has lost a great deal of passenger traffic due to reckless actions regarding Belarus? No, this Parliament is obliged to do its utmost to improve the economic situation in the country, not to engage in politics and the ideology of our foreign policy. The only country in the world that can afford ideological foreign policy is the United States. But did they forbid their planes from flying in Belarusian airspace? No, it's not. Because even the United States is thinking about the economy and their own pragmatic national interests. Are we more democratic than even Americans? Tell Biden about it, it'll be very interesting. I urge this Parliament to stop spoiling relations with our important northern neighbour, which is a key factor so that the economic situation in Ukraine does not get worse. Think twice before voting for this disgraceful decision on Belarus on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u164	Please, Žmerenecki Alexi Sergiyovich. Will there be more speakers? I see, Shahov. I see, Sergey Vladislavovich. Zmerenecki asked us. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u165	Good afternoon, dear friends! We talk a lot about our IT sector, which we're proud of. But the problem is that even the IT branch in Ukraine is raw, it's mostly outsourcing. When it comes to working in the offices of international companies, these companies are transporting our programmers’ families to the same United States and to other countries of the world where they are already working in the offices of transnational corporations. In Ukraine, unfortunately, it's still an IT business, so to speak. And it's a bill on "Dia City" called for the creation of a civilized tax regime, such as the one in any developed country and neighboring Ukraine. Today, there are about two thousand different special tax regimes in the world that support industry, IT, biotechnology, RnD, and so on. There is nothing in Ukraine. Recently, you and I supported the Industrial Parks Bill in order to develop the Ukrainian industry. It's time to support the Ukrainian IT gas to make sure it's not raw.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u166	Thank you. Sobole with motive, then Shahov and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u167	Undoubtedly, the question is very important, and our faction has long discussed it. But, colleagues, two standards: where did the online casino come from, how do you take your taxes off or cut them? Second rule. Please tell me, if you want to do good for the IT branch, then read at least Bulgaria's Dog Heart: if you're not a member of the union, you don't have any beer. This reminds us of what you proposed in this bill. Remove these two standards and the faction would be willing to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u168	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u169	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Does the country need digitization? Of course you do. There are 5Gs in the world, not just in the villages, big cities don't have Internet. I invite each and every one of you, dear colleagues, all the committees in Luhansk. We're farmers, we're farmers, we're going to cut the salt, we're going to pour the vodka, we're going to take the car. And from Triotic (Triotic, Bilokurakin, Milov, Novoidar) we're going to take a ride through those cowboys like graves, and we're going to see, we're going to talk to people. Your phones won't work there. But today, there is no Ukrainian television in that territory occupied by the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. We have to look there, too. We need to talk to people who don't have jobs, today we're going to fight in different countries, in Rostov, in Moscow, in Peter, in Poland. We're digitizing the country, of course, but let's start with people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u170	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (registration No. 5376). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:31]] For 281 Decision taken. The next question is the bill (registration number 3403). Vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration number 3403). Please support and vote. [[13:45:13]] For 315 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. Now, without discussing to vote 5099, there will be a second reading of another bill and the extreme that we will be able to do today, even with discussion 5465. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Anti-Doping Activities in Sports (registration No. 5099). [[B in m in s a l in]] Antidoping activity in sports, 5099 Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:46:21]] For 342 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on mecenata activities in the field of sports (registration number 3498). The chairman of the Youth and Sports Committee, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, is invited to the rostrum. As far as I can tell, they're going to insist on one direction, aren't they? They will, won't they? Can we vote? So will you or won't you? Mazurau, number eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I'd like to hear you very much right now. It's a bill that's important, but at the same time it's important for all colleagues to understand that there is a mecynation in sport in Ukraine. And now, without a hitch, all metrics are willing to help anyone, any kind of sport, any kind of sports activity. But the state, the state's position, is that we can't lay the groundwork that any mercenary can provide help to anyone on preferential terms. And the bill is based on future preferences. So I'm asking you very much to support the 8 revisions that take away these problems. And in case you hear it, here is said to be right, logic is in this direction. If you support this amendment 8, then the bill will be balanced and we can calmly support it in all the halls. Thank you for your attention. It makes sense, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u172	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u173	Thank you, Georgiy Georgievich. Thank you for really giving you the opportunity to work very productively on this bill in such and in discussions, disputes, it's the right thing to do. But what I want to say is, and now I want to make a statement about the experts, and the lawyers, and the athletes, and the mecenators, who say the following. That the amendment, which Georgiy Georgiyovich says about, we reject because the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports does not define the concept in this amendment, which is a priority form of sport. Its approval will also limit the right of persons to receive mercenary assistance, which is contrary to the Constitution, article 24 of the Constitution. That is to say, all of us, not just those who play Olympic or Deflimpian sports, should be helped. And this is going to be equal, this is going to be right and fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u174	Thank you. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm betting on the vote number 8 of the People's Deputy of Mazuras. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:28]] For 171 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. I bet. What are you waving? I'm betting on the voting bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] What kind of papers? Okay. Which direction do you insist on? Do you have any more? Now. 11 o'clock, Mazurashu.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, once again, the bill is in place, sorry, "schematosis." I asked you to support us to remove this problem. Please don't manipulate, there's no question that they won't be able to engage in any other kind of sport. All kinds of sports will be able to receive mercenati aid on terms of preference, but in a healthy direction. And in sports, I'm sorry, we can't spit and trample on sports principles. There shouldn't be a state that allows anyone to support anything on any condition, on preferential terms without priority, because preference is a priority. And in this bill, we need to give a clear signal that the state understands priorities, and the Olympic, Paralympic and Deflimpic sports around the world are top priority. Without preference, they can support any direction, so I ask you not to support this bill, but to re-read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to. Georgiy Georgievich, I'd like to address you. Respectfully, if you could, these words "schematosis" and don't use them, because if you knew me and you knew, if it were true, I wouldn't be here on the rostrum and this bill wouldn't be in the hall. This time. Secondly, I want to say the following. The thing is. What and what "schematosis" you're talking about if we're supported by the National Olympic Committee led by Mr. Bubka. We are supported by Mr. Gutzite in charge of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The committee supports all of your five colleagues from your "Serial of the People" faction. So what kind of "schematosis" could there be, and what kind of questions do we have? It's the right law to open a door for meticulouss in sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u177	I'll bet you vote number 11. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:13]] For-136 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 17, Mazurashu.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u178	Once again, Your Honor Andrew Anatolyovich, you have no experience in the field of physical culture and sports. Do not mislead Parliament. There's a "schematosis" that you don't feel because you don't have the right experience. It can't be that the state makes it possible on preferential terms to support anything, anyone. Because it's a non-state position. The state has to take priority. The preferences that this bill is based on are priorities. So please do not be misled. Any patronage can provide any assistance without this bill today. There's no need for that. The bill is based on the State’s preference. And they can't be trusted by everyone. Because otherwise it's a way to nowhere. Please do not mislead your colleagues. Don't you understand where "schematosis" is? I've repeatedly asked you to hear where he is. I know where he is as a practice in physical culture and sports. That's why the bill needs to be reopened.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u179	I'll bet you vote number 17. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:42]] For 171 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 18, Mazurau.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I know that we have most people in the hall or all of our deputies support sports. And the title of the bill is very positive. It seems to indicate that we are supposed to be involved in physical culture and sports. Mecenity is still in the realm of physical culture and sports today. It's a shame not all of us don't know about it, I get it. We have a martyrdom in the field of physical culture and sports. Just putting the basis under preference should be of a priority, it's a state position. I'm sorry you don't understand. I ask you, colleagues, not to support such a bill, because there is no need to support the scheme in Parliament. Let us send a second read and correct what should not be in Ukraine’s legislation. Parliament cannot adopt lobbyist, "schematotic" bills. I'm asking you to hear me. I'm rarely asked to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u181	I'm betting on the vote number 18 of Mazurash. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:05]] For 171 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 20 lashes, Mazurashu.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u182	Let me explain again to my colleagues what this is about. The bill, for example, contains such a rule on beneficiaryship, i.e. a patronage under privileges, under State aid, for example, providing assistance to a certain federation, does not simply provide a federation, but indicates to whom (first name): Pupchenko. This is contrary to the principles of sports; it can't be the apriors. I'm asking you to hear it. That's the pattern. That's why it avoids priority in this bill, because priority species don't go to those "schematosis" deals. And because of the unpriority, it's easy to do that. I'm asking you, this bill needs to be re-readed and revised so that it doesn't pass. We have to be in a state position, I'm asking you very much, I have a lot of experience working in the sphere, I feel this topic. Please hear me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u183	I'm betting on the vote number 20 of the people's MP Mazurash. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:31]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 21 rows, Mazurashu.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u184	Once again, colleagues, please listen, this bill, if it wasn't for the schematics, it would be useful for the field of physical culture and sports. I'm sorry not everyone understands that. As a practice, I'm telling you, it needs to be re-readed and corrected to be state-owned and not lobbyist in the interests of those who intend to use these schemes. Please don't back him up on the second reading and send him back to read again so that we can strengthen the state's position and reflect in this bill, not diagrams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u185	I'm betting on the vote number 21 of the People's Deputies of Mazuras. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:40]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 35 lacquers, Mazurashu.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u186	And now I'm only addressing colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction. Colleagues who are reading the official page of "The Servant of the Nation," in December 20th, it was written that if they are not supported on the Committee of State and Professional Rights, which I emphasized and which I explained, we will not support this bill in second reading. I'm asking you to focus on command and that I'm a representative of the field of physics and sports, and I've practically come to Parliament from practical work and I feel this subject. You can't miss this bill in this paper. I'm asking you, let's re-read it and make it state-owned and really useful for physical culture and sports. Those who came up with this bill set up schematics there, I'm sorry the colleagues didn't see it. I ask you to hear and send him to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-02-m0.u187	I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. The position of the committee and we move on to the vote. None. I'm betting on the vote number 35, Mazurashu. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:04]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's go to the vote for the law. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning mecenathic activities in the field of sports (registration number 3498). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:59:41]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, as far as I can tell, without discussion, right? No discussion. This is the final question for today’s plenary day. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as the basis of the project. No, I'm sorry. Stop. I see. It's already been accepted. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to the Education Act of Ukraine on improving the scientific and methodological provision of education and the quality of educational literature (registration number 5465). Please support and vote. [[14:00:44]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2:00 p.m., the plenary session is closed.
