ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the "for" button, the first one on the left-hand side or the green one. Ready? Please register. [[10:07:23]] There are 222 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we also have nouns: Julia Mikolayevna Grishina, Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk and Kaltsev Vladimir Fedorovich. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I want strength, health, success, victory, flowers in your life, many achievements! Let's get to work. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for a speech by the Ukrainian national deputies with announcements, messages and speeches. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Krulko Ivanovich. None. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I think last week was a very revealing way for the people of Ukraine to continue to control power -- both presidential and governmental and parliamentary. What happened on the Central Electoral Commission was when even those parties who here shouted out that they would not allow the sale of land, quietly, with their eyes down, refused to register a group of 11 out of a thousand people. This means that in fact the Referendum Act was made for one purpose, which we warned about when this law was voted in its final form: never to allow a referendum to be held on a national initiative. Only a referendum that is convenient to the authorities can be organized according to this law. Well, think about it, a group of 60 people, that means that each of these 60 people have to collect 50,000, I'm not wrong, 50,000 signatures to make the citizens' will come true. So a 60 - year - old group registers with the Central Electoral Commission, and not only does it register, they are issued with signed letters. And I think this group is going to simulate the collection of citizens' signatures for 90 days. And then, as soon as there's a new initiative group, 60 people will file their papers with the CIA again, and they'll lock up any question of a referendum. That's why the Fatherland faction insists on one thing: if the President of Ukraine really wants to hear people through the referendum law, we need to make immediate changes and allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to do everything possible to ensure that any legislative initiatives that support people's will go through key referendum decisions. This is also true of changes to the Constitution, you know, a whole series of chapters require a referendum, and this is true of such important issues as the Law on Earth, such as issues that are directly related to the lives of people on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u3	Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Maxim Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u5	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues and voters, I, as Ukraine's national deputy in 132 counties (First Maid, Mikolayivsk Region), have encountered the problem of the effectiveness of the management of the Reserve, particularly with regard to the work of DP "Blood Base No. 76", which is within my constituency. Everyone knows that Mikita Barabas has been the temporary leader of the DDR for more than a year now. The contest for the headship of the Reserve was cancelled in May of this year. During the period 2020-2021, five leaders were appointed as temporary heads of the State-owned Bread Foundation. Today, the situation at the company is critical. I've been given numerous references to the interim head of the Reserve and there's been a few meetings, but, as we can see, that didn't work. A resonant event recently reoccurred. On 24 May, the illegal export of grain from DP Bread Base No. 76 was found to be about 300 tons of grain. Criminal conduct was discovered in the NABU. I was asked by the MPs to contact the Reservoir with the question of who owned the exported grain — the state or private entrepreneurs. Instead, I received a letter saying that it was a state secret. On the three pages, however, I was given an answer by the interim manager of the Reserve that, in a critical situation in the enterprise, it was Ukrzalznica, private competitors and farmers. Whoever it is, it is not the leadership of the State Reserve and its stakeholders, who have led the state-owned enterprise to a critical state since 2019. There is now a competition for the headship of the Reserve. It is important that this position be occupied by a person who can maintain effective human resources policies and thereby contribute to the restoration of the work of the State Enterprise, Bread Base No. 76. Although it is already known that three candidates have reached the finals, among them is Mikita Barabas, the same temporary head of the Reserve. I am addressing the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Mr. Lovechenko, not to make a mistake, not to assign the person to an important state office, because the Reserve will be destroyed at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u7	Please, Deputy People's Republic of Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the opposition party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u8	Please give me the word of Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u9	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u10	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. We are watching closely all of us, of course, the United States President's visit to Europe, the G7 meetings that took place in Ukraine without NATO or NATO without Ukraine, as you wish. I'm asking the authorities today. Why did you have to beat the whole of Ukraine about some kind of VAT, joining NATO if they didn't see us there. We hear something that we can't even hear, and we try to sell it to the Ukrainians, not to the Ukrainians, but to ourselves. And today, as experts have already determined, it is a truly important historic meeting between the Russian and American presidents. The main issue to be discussed is global security, the role of China, the situation in the Middle East, the situation around the conflict between Israel and Palestine. But there is one issue that concerns us in the first place, this issue of Ukraine, this issue of peace in Ukraine. Yesterday, more than 10,000 supporters of peace came from all parts of Ukraine with one goal: to address the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that it does not stand side by side with the process of bringing peace back to our country. "What's up with us,--you say,--we're here with what?".. And that's what we're supposed to be in charge of this process. We certainly respect Mrs. Merkel's position, Mr. Macron, even Mr. Byden, but still this is our land, this is our Donbas, I want to say once again, who doesn't speak, but Donbass is ours, Ukrainian. That's why we have to stand up today in this very room for the principles that will ensure the return of our citizens, the return to the only Ukrainian family, and our settlers, I have no word to say "refugees," return home, return to our peaceful Donbas. Look at the agenda that we are doing today. In addition to two or three laws, please tell me if it's worth your time. Every day we have the threat that either military or peaceful people will die on the line of separation, every day people say that they can no longer live with these tariffs and these pensions. What do we care? So today I demand and urge everyone to go back to what our citizens need. The Ukrainians need peace, you promised them, it's been two years, and there's no peace. So think of the people, think of Ukraine, return peace to your homes! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u11	Network Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u12	Please give the word of Silent Alexia Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u13	Silent Alexei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u14	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! There is now an active debate in society on the bill of the President of Ukraine on oligarchs. We need to get rid of an oligarchic hydra that breaks people’s fate and destroys faith in the happy future of the Ukrainians. As an example, what a terrible influence there is on the authority of the Poltava region of the Jevago oligarch, who is now in international search. In the area of the Kremenchuck district of Poltava, there is a company’s career, which belongs to the oligarch, where it extracts Ukrainian ore. In his plans to develop new careers, he needs the land of the Kremenchuck region. Zhivago is so influential that while living in London, he was able to organize a coup d’état in the Cremenchuck district council to settle land issues for his careers. A group of district council deputies tried four times to hold an illegal session in the interests of Zhevago. Each attempt was accompanied by opposition and struggles, three times they failed. On June 9, as a national deputy elected from the Kremenchuck district, I arrived at a meeting, ansonated as an alternate session of the Kremenchuck District Council, but I was denied the opportunity to appear before my electorate, blocked the way to the rostrum, and applied physical force against me. My MPs were hindered by the employees of the Sokoli Poltashtska security firm. I point out that the public meeting of the annotated out-of-office session never took place. A group of district council deputies, acting in the interests of Zhevago, secretly, in the basement of the party office, under the protection of the private firm Sokoli Poltavščina, held an illegal session. The local deputies of the "Serial of the People" faction were not invited or released. The head of the Kremenchuck District Council was illegally transferred to the West. This is similar to what happened in Donetsk and Luhansk in 2014. If today we close our eyes to the fact that in the basement, without complying with the requirements of legislation, we have changed the head of the district council for the sake of the oligarch Zhevago, then tomorrow we will be in trouble or in a restaurant, or in an essay, they will change the leadership of the Supreme Council. I am addressing the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Minister of Internal Affairs, please consider my statement to be a crime report, and I demand a full and objective investigation with the involvement of the perpetrators in the illegal change of power in the Kremenchuk Paradise to criminal responsibility. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u15	Masuras. Fedienko Alexander Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Children’s school vacations, their parents ’ vacations, and the time of nature’s rest have arrived. But the problem is that Ukrainian citizens will soon not be able to rest. Most of the banks of rivers and lakes are either in neglected condition, or privately owned, built buildings. I have many meetings with the inhabitants of 98 districts, this is the Kyiv district of Borispil district. I just want to give you some facts. The city of Voronków, the river Iqua, the state-owned enterprise Borispol International Airport pours dirt and sewage into this river. I've already contacted the relevant authorities. The main river Dnipro, from Procevo to Prejaslav, is built all the way to Dnipra. These are both private buildings and business facilities. People do not have access to the river, and there are huge assets on the shore whose owners actively line the shore. The law enforcement authorities do not notice all of this. My friends, think about it in winter, when there was ice, they stuck the rings in the water and put the fence there. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, every citizen has the right to use water resources without hindrance. But at least in our legislation there are many problems: this is the absence of an executive and control authority to monitor the state of the coast and compliance, the enforcement of the law on unhindered access to water. The land is sold, distributed, and leased without further control of the target use, thus building a coastal zone. Officials sell land near the watercourse, entrepreneurs take the shore, and try even more to build it, leading to the further destruction of the ecosystem. Using the land in a long-term lease is another question. It is not used as an assignment, or a change of purpose, that is, the land is set aside for haystacks or gardening, but is used under construction. Dear colleagues! Dear residents of 98th District! As a national MP, I will be actively involved in solving these problems. The inhabitants of the 98th district of Kiev (Borispil Region) please contact me and my colleagues with all the facts of the violation of the constitutional right of people to use water resources. The law enforcement authorities, please pay attention to your attention to the appropriate area of the Dnipro River from Procevo to Preyaslav-Hmielnický. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u17	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Yesterday the leadership of our party and faction actually crossed the red line and betrayed the interests of its constituents and Ukrainians. They voted in favour of the Russians when they promised to protect Ukrainian language and culture. That's why we, the Ten People's Deputies, and this is half of Parliament's Voice faction, want to state the creation of a separate Justice Union. We have to say that the Voice faction has not existed in the Supreme Council for five months now, and its leadership does not represent the interests of even half of the parties and members of the Supreme Council. Most of the guidance betrayed the values that we declared in the elections and the principles that we promised to work for. That's why we, half of the parliamentary faction, have joined the Justice Group to continue to defend the interests of the Ukrainians, not the leadership of the party, faction or individual oligarchs. We will continue to do the program for which the voters of the Voice cast their votes in 2019. We find it unacceptable to support our party of debasins of the capital land, for which we are now being forced to vote on the Kiyevrada deputies from the Voice. They steal parks, they steal playgrounds, sports courses instead of protecting them from the builders. And we promised to protect people's interests, not individual builders. We find it unacceptable to destroy anti-corruption bodies, which is why a bill has been registered with the leadership of our party and faction to take away the opportunity for NAMC to check party finances. Do you know why? Because there were questions about where the financials are spent by the leaders of our party, where government funding goes in over 70 million a year. We promised our voters to fight for justice and not to cross red lines. Today these red lines were crossed by the leadership of our party and faction. They act in their own interests, not in the interests of the electorate and the party. As deputies responsible to our electorate, we are not afraid to talk about this. Regrettably, the party’s leadership and the faction were linked to the culinary arrangements. We will not hide our eyes and refuse as long as our colleagues deal with the derby and the contractors, do as everyone is accustomed to in politics and very often in the walls of Parliament. We will not hide our eyes in shame as long as they deal with the contractors and the dumpsters. We are accountable to the electorate, and we will talk about it openly, and we will fight against it. Yesterday, Party and faction leaders showed their real faces. They voted for the Russians instead of defending Ukrainian language and Ukrainian culture. That's why we, half of the Voice faction, have expressed our mistrust to the leader of the Jaroslav Iron Faction, who is violating the faction law and regulations and has for more than three months not called for a faction to meet, even at the request of most of the people's deputies in the faction. Imagine that the head of your committee or faction has simply refused to gather it for more than three months. We are initiating the expulsion of Kira Rudik, who walks 60 percent of the meetings. We promised the voters if they walked 50 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u19	Lichmann Hanna Vasilovna. Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The drama surrounding Sikorsky’s garden in Kiev continues to unfold. 10 years ago, as the head of Kiev Youth Movement, I then initiated the break of the cable agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the pseudo-thank you fund that the museum was supposed to make there, and actually led the garden to destroy it. Then we were able to dislodge the garden from the hands of the swindlers who wanted to build another cloud in Kiev. But after returning the estate to the state’s property by breaking this 49 - year bonded lease, we can see that the Ministry of Defence has been doing nothing and is doing nothing to save the world’s history of architecture. Because Igor Sikorsky is the man who designed the helicopter, he is the man whose helicopters all the presidents of the United States fly. This is the man who launched the world’s first airplane with a separate passenger lounge. It's a brand of Ukraine and it's a brand of the United States today. This is what celebrates us today and unites us today with the United States of America -- our strategic partners. But instead, we see that the state in the face of the Mino Defense is sabotaging the issue. You and I, dear colleagues, made a decision a few months ago to intervene with the President of Ukraine in order to save the garden. The President responded positively to our appeal, gave appropriate orders both to the Ministry of Defence and to the Attorney General’s Office. It should be noted that the Ministry of Culture, together with the Attorney General’s Office, had brought the matter before the court and had the Ministry of Defence immediately initiate the conservation of the garden’s reconstruction. But the Ministry of Defence continues to sabotage both the will of the Ukrainian Parliament and the President’s mandate and the position of the state before the court, although the court, by the name of Ukraine, has undertaken to start rebuilding this garden. Instead, what do we see? That the garden was recently tried to be burned, set on fire, was initiated, I believe, by an artificial fire. In the days of the Ministry of Defense, it said that it did see the garden in private hands. Although we know that there is a decision by the Kyiv City Council that the Kyiv community is willing to take this historical monument on balance, there is also the position of the Ministry of Culture, which Mr. Minister Tkachenko has been told that the Ministry of Culture is ready to balance this garden. So I urge the Ministry of Defense to stop playing these things and still take real steps to preserve the restoration and transfer of the garden or to the balance of the city of Kiev, or the Ministry of Culture, as today is the logical continuation and resolution of this issue. And I, as a national deputy, am addressing the law enforcement agencies with a statement of crime, the inaction of the Ministry of Defence, the specific officials in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u21	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u22	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, first of all, my colleague in the Sergio Sobolev faction explained in detail today that in fact no Ukrainian, no public organization has been able to hold a referendum on the so-called national initiative. There is no national initiative, and the decision of the CLTC, which refused to hold a referendum on the ground, is vividly confirmed. But in my speech, I would like to touch on another important subject right now. Yesterday, a bill was voted "ministers of the people" in this session room on the so-called tax amnesty. Let's look at what this is all about. If you, Ukrainians, think this is about you, yes, it's not about the officials, it's not about the ministers, it's not about the President's Office, it's about you, it's about every Ukrainian. Now for every bracelet you've made in the 90s, you're going to have to declare and pay 5 percent. Imagine you, and there were millions of Ukrainian families that in the '90s were forced to go to Poland, to Romania, to Slovakia, to Yugoslavia, to sell something there to feed their own families, so now you're offered to declare it voluntarily. If you don't voluntarily declare it and pay 5 percent, you're going to have administrative and criminal responsibility. And now, in fact, this law, which is called a good tax amnesty, is not such an amnesty, but it is an additional tax on every Ukrainian family. Four hundred thousand dollars is the plank that you have to declare. Tell me, what is 400,000 dollars? 400,000 is not a single-room apartment in any of Ukraine's district centers. So if you made a penny in the '90s, bought an apartment, sold it now, and it's worth over 400,000, declare or go to jail and take criminal responsibility for it. Here's what you've been offered "ministers of the people." That is why we believe that this law must be committed to the President of Ukraine. And we demand it. Because this is essentially not a tax amnesty, not a zero declaration, which is supposed to be real, and this is an extra 5 percent tax on every Ukrainian family. And we think it's a robbery of the Ukrainians. At these cloudy tariffs that they have imposed, at these cloudy prices for all food products, at this rippled rate that will take place immediately after the introduction of the so-called land market, when they take away the last thing that is, is pies from each family, they want to tax each family by 5 percent. We must be against it. And every Ukrainian needs to understand clearly what antinational laws are being passed in this sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u23	Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich. Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head! People's deputies! Citizens of Ukraine! Today it is just one year ago that I made an oath from this parliamentary rostrum, as I promised to defend Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, as I promised to take care of the lives and well-being of its citizens. Perhaps it is worth talking about success on our anniversary. But today, I'd like to talk about something else. I would like to draw your attention to the challenges faced by the people working on the ground -- peasants, farmers. You know, last week, I was in my native Dniproperty. I met with rural communities, farmers of Dniproperty. What's going on is terrible. In fact, it is an icy soul of reality that is severe. Farmers tell me how they are beaten. Farmers tell us how they burn their techniques, how they destroy their crops. And all that is to take away the earth from them is to leave the earth without produce. You know, I was in this village in Magdalin County, there's people. There's no bus or route, no public transport, they have to go more than 10 kilometers to the route to get to a more or less populous point. So the only thing they live on is the fences, their land. And so it happened that they were taken from them. They took advantage of one person. Rila was handed over to pastures, transferred to a destination, and presented without competition. You and I are here to prevent such incidents. I'm talking to you. We have to make a clear and strict request to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the National Police, so that no case of violation of the rights of people working and living on earth in Ukraine will be without responsibility. Those bastards, those criminals who take the land from people, have to bear the most severe responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen of the interior and the Attorney -General, please explain to your subordinates that neither during this season nor they will continue to participate in the so - called illicit harvest congregations in order to protect the criminals. Mr. President, this is a matter of national security. Do your best to protect those who live and work on earth. In the light of the earth’s market, we must show people that there is justice. Otherwise, we will fail to introduce this reform, which we have been so hard to carry out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u25	Tetjana Mikolayevna. None. Where? You're not Grishenko. Where's Grishenko? Pass the word? - Hi. - Hi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u26	Please give Mandiya the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u27	Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Tomorrow, June 17, Hmelničina and Ukraine will celebrate 90 years from the date of the birth of our distinguished countryman, civil and state official, twice the winner of the National Science and Technology Award of Ukraine, the winner of the Vernadian Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Deserved Geologist of Ukraine, the correspondent of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the doctor of geology and mineralology, Professor Peter Fedorovich Spak. Peter Fedorovich Špak is a well-known and recognized professional not only in Ukraine, but also far beyond it in the field of search, exploration, development of oil and gas fields, many of which were discovered and developed under his direct guidance. For 15 years, Peter Fedorovich headed the Ministry of Geology of Ukraine. It is during this period that there is an active development of search and exploration, the introduction of complex and fundamental scientific developments, the development of new technology and technology, the creation of a powerful infrastructure of the geological sector, the active construction of social objects. The practical work of Peter Fedorovich is marked by the great discoveries in Ukraine of a number of species of beneficial fossils, including the unique Western and Christian, two of the great Ephraimian and Jablonish and a number of the great Kotelevské, Melechivsk, Chutovské, Opišnjanské, Razpašnovské, and the first of the Black Sea waters of the Holy Sea. As a result of these discoveries, gas production in Ukraine reached a record 68 billion cubic meters [68 billion cubic meters] during this period. Peanuts highly appreciate the outstanding achievements of their native. In his homeland, in the village of Dashkovice in the district of Hmielnicke district, he created and operates the museum house of Petr Fedorovich Spaka. And at the Institute of Geology of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which he led for many years, a memorial board was opened to honor him. With great honor and respect for Peter Fedorovich, we in his person honor the great patriot Ukraine, a great scientist, a recognized geologist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Showtime's up. So let's get to the point. Edit number 157, Black. The 152th passed yesterday. That's why 157 revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] 152th, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, 152 amendments have been made to Article 6, paragraph 3. However, I would like to draw the attention of the national MPs to the disgraceful norm that is in the draft law. This indicates that there is an increase in the salaries of members of the Supervisory Boards in the size of 40 living minimums for working persons. This figure today is going to be 2,000 270 dollars, and 40 of these are going to be 90,000 dollars. So it's set for Nakrad's head -- 90,000 dollars; for the deputy, 37 of these salaries -- it's 83990; 35 for the contracts, and 79450 for the members, and 74910 for the members. Where's this country's salary -- 90,000 dollars? The minimum wage, I'll remind you, is 6,000 dollars in the country. Make an attachment to it, and do not put such high wages on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u31	152, Coltunovich. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[10:42:41.]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 157th, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, we all sincerely congratulated Mrs. Julia on her birthday. We're fine with gender here, and if we have to provide gender during the formation of the National Television and Radio Council, we don't. So I wonder why the amendment proposed by me and my colleagues was rejected for the purpose of ensuring gender and quotas in the formation of the National Television and Radio Council. I think we need to not only talk about equality between our women, but we need to ensure this equality not by word of mouth, but by deed. Something like that was written on posters in '19. But I think the servants are already afraid to look at the posters they chose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u33	I'm betting on a vote of 157, Shufrich. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:16]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next edit of Skork. Don't insist. Gnutenko, line 158.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to support my colleagues, who have also joined the rights that are being considered today. And with respect to the pay fund, I also want to add that it's not 90,000, it's even more money, because there's still a number of premiums that haven't been counted here, and that's going to go for hundreds of thousands of dollars for the pay of the board's head. And with regard to regulation 158, I would like to take part of the fourth part of it into account and put it out as follows: "The appointment by the President of Ukraine of members of the National Council shall take place at the same time for all vacant positions of members of the National Council appointed by the President." Thank you. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u35	I'm betting on the 158th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Skork, King's Landing and Gnatenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:45:36]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 159. Hairline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u37	Please, Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u38	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 159 amendments to the content proposed in part four of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the word “including the gender composition of the National Council at the moment of voting and giving preference to the representatives of the sex whose number of representatives is smaller” should be excluded. And I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u39	I'm betting on the 159th amendment of the national deputy of Volosin, Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:43]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 160, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u40	The honourable presiding, honourable fellow Members, of the draft law relating to article 6(4), is editorial and clarifyes the actions of the President in appointing the members of the National Council. At the same time, on the one hand, I point out that if the bill is adopted, unfortunately, it can simply destroy such a constitutional body, which should be independent, such as the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, will make it fully controlled, controlled by power, and as a result, we may lose this value, which is still less, but there is freedom of speech and non-censorship in Ukraine. There is a strong desire for our authority to control all media, to impose information policy, to establish censorship, calling it misinformation. They may feel that this will help them to remain in power for a long time, but that is not the case. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u41	I'm betting on a vote of 160. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:48:15.]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 167. Pavlenko, Kiva, Koltunovich. Who's it gonna be? Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u42	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Article 6(5) is also amended, and it is editorial. And the bill is intended not to be the mistakes that were made in the previous bill, which led to the fact that the competition for appointment of members of the National Council from the Supreme Council was actually one of those legislative novelties that was introduced a year ago by a majority, blocked the competition and turned into an almost fully controlled body of the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, which, once again, is a constitutional and independent body. Unfortunately, the law does so, not just by being controlled by the authorities, but by the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, but for this, the National Council will receive an extremely high salary. I'll remind you, my colleagues have already spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u43	I bet on the vote 167 amendment of the Pavlovka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:58]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 168, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u44	I beg your pardon to give Lukashev a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u45	Lukashev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, let's mention the events of the recent history of the development of freedom of speech in Ukraine, namely the closure of three opposition channels and the denial of Ukrainians' right to receive true information about the socio-economic processes that are taking place in Ukraine and the reaction of the world community. In particular, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights noted in a report that the decision to close channels was a violation of human rights standards because it had been violated in relation to them. The problem is that it does not meet the criteria of necessity and proportionality, nor has it been approved by an independent body — prejudice is available. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u47	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 168 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:52]] For-41
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u48	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Duck, number 175.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I address the entire community to all Ukrainians. We need to know that today the body that should be independent, the National Council on TV and radio talk, must be independent. What is happening today? And in the last cadence, this entire Nakrad was dependent on the Office of the President and on the first person of the state, and today this is the same situation. And today we're strengthening in this law, in these changes, we're increasing their impact on everything that's going on in space today. This applies to both YouTube and social networking and other freedoms that we had yesterday. So, dear colleagues, this law should be annulled at all. And I am sure that if the new democratic power comes, it will never allow such attacks on the freedom of speech that is taking place in Ukraine today. Unfortunately, that's what people today call themselves "ministers of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u50	I'm betting on a vote of 175 Kacny's. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:30.]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 176 axles. Voloshin. It's a suburban.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u51	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I propose that the first part of article 7 of the Ukrainian National Council of Television and Radio Broadcasting Act be supplemented by the following: "at the time of their appointment, they did not reach the age of retirement established by law." This law is supplemented by a list of requirements for a member of the National Council, namely, to supplement the requirement for compliance with the age limit. Thank you. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u52	I'm betting on a vote of 176. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:38]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Shufrich. 179.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to pay attention to the following. The amendment refers to the price of residence of potential members of the National Television and Radio Council for at least five years. And we're saying, and we're saying, "Rehabilitation must be unbreakable." What does that mean? This means that at least 183 days are to be spent each year in Ukraine for 5 years. And just living is one day enough to be in Ukraine for a year. That's why we insist on this amendment, so that everything is correct, fair and transparent, and that there are no double readings when the law is signed. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u54	I'll bet 179 right. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:56:13]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 180 straight, Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u55	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The amendment accordingly concerns the same question, but in this case, we propose a time limit for the presence and residence of Ukraine to be limited not by 5 years, but by 10 years. And that's absolutely right, because the potential members of the National Television and Radio Council need to be as aware of what's going on in the media space of Ukraine. And I want to stress once again the urgent need to immediately change or reassign and take responsibility for the respective factions for the active members of the National Council, because they have been going through their terms for more than three years. This is a disgrace and a disgrace primarily for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We change the laws here, and we ignore our constitutional obligations. And that's the sole responsibility of the majority. Thank you for your attention. I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u56	I'll bet you 180 votes, Schufrich. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:47]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 181 law, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, here we are arguing about essentially legal aspects of determining the status of the National Council for Television and Radio. And I would like to highlight the fact that in Luhansk, in general, the presence of Ukrainian television channels, Ukrainian speakers has been minimized in media space. And this space, as you can see, does not remain empty. And so if we look at the ratings of the presence of speakers, it's clear that there are foreign languages. So instead of fighting the opposition channels that tell the truth, we need to pay attention to what is happening in our country. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u58	I'm betting on the 181 of Lukasheva's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[10:59:14]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next line, Pauline, line 182.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Very well, Mr. Head, that this call of the Supreme Council has established a tradition of detailed consideration of drafts for second reading, does not allow for the violation of the Rules during the consideration of draft laws, which unfortunately has become a tradition in the previous call of the Supreme Council. This allows for a detailed review of the law and not only the MPs to understand all the dangers that are in the bill, but also the public to hear that in fact today the authors of the law want to destroy the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, to make a controlled body and also to give these members 90,000 wages to carry out any commission that comes from high-level employers. So please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u60	Two adjustments we can, yes, set up, three even. I'll bet you vote no. 182. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:45]] For-49 The decision is not taken. And it's number 194. Please identify and vote. [[11:01:07]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Volosin, 187 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, in principle, you realize that today is not just another bill that regulates the activities of the National Council. This is all about the functioning of the media environment, which is causing a lot of concern to our journalists and, more importantly, this concern is rightly supported by the international community. In principle, I would like to remind you that the fight against freedom of speech is unappreciative, even dangerous. I want to remind you that the faction that was very proud of what had been done to ban journalists from NewsOne, 112 -- all the access to the Supreme Council's towers -- today has collapsed in public, more specifically, half apart, which is characteristic of dangerous elements, not just chemical elements. So I would just very much like to draw everyone else's attention to the fact that in one way or another fate punishes those who fight independent media. Now I ask you to put my bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u62	I'll bet you 187 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:30.]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next line is 189, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u63	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. The appropriate amendment refers to the question of the signs for which members of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting may be selected, namely their expertise. And we ask that an appropriate specialist has to have a job in journalism for at least five years. And it's been proposed by the authors for the last five years. Why such discrimination? It can be different between a journalist and another media rep, and it doesn't have to be five years in a row. So I think our point is correct. Please be supportive. If we respect journalists. And if not, if you do not care, if you need to stretch out today to stifle freedom of speech, vote as you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u64	I'm betting on the 189th amendment of the Shufric People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:02]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 190. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u65	Well, you've already defined your attitude toward journalists. And in supporting me, to my absolute conviction, unprofessional, unprofessional, conjunctural, or possibly criminal National Council for Television and Broadcasting, or individual members of the National Council, taking into account the accusations that are being made today by law enforcement agencies. Surely, the final word of judgment. But we see everything and we hear everything. So I don't understand why the right to be a elected member in this case is defined solely in the work on the air. Are we again looking for a sign under the new Olga Gerasimük? Why such restrictions? Why is there so much disrespect for journalists? What are you doing?Oh, my God! Where is freedom of speech? Where is the principle of equality? You see, the journalists will give you an answer to what you're trying to do with them right now. This is irresponsible and shameful. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u66	190 lashes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:34]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next issue, 196, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u67	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you know, I'd like to have a professional discussion. But, you know, we have these national sculptures, they're called grandmothers. Well, it's hard to talk to them. Beats, sorry, knocks. You really want to have a discussion. Well, at least there were signs of life on the phone yesterday. They were looking for something on the cell phone. They were interested in something. Today, it is obvious how you treat your colleagues in general. But to be honest, I will survive the treatment of myself as a national deputy of Ukraine. I've met and held no more here in this Council. But I'm not going to forgive anyone. The fact that you are actually abusing people, actually nullifying their rights, we will fight it if not in this room, in the Constitutional Court. I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u68	A replica? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u69	I listened carefully to the images in my address. Well, that's the second day in a row. I mean, dear friends, respected Ukrainian citizens, there's a faction here that systematically abuses people, and it's not a "Serial of the People" faction. This faction with one of its amendments says, let's strengthen the gender representation. Others say, let's destroy the gender representation at the National Council on Television and Radio. This faction says, we're against this law at all, we're not going to vote for it, but we insist on law enforcement. This is nothing more than systematic abuse of parliament, the procedure and the citizens of Ukraine who are awaiting important, socially important laws. Here's what's going on here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u70	I'm betting on a 197 vote. One hundred and sixty-six. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:06]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Rule 198, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u71	Please give the floor to Alexander Koltunović and continue to put it to the vote and to 199th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u72	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I cannot help but respond to the abuse of Parliament and the country. And what do you think you're kidding about in two years of debt plus $10 billion? What do you do with the law that you put $90,000 in wages when there's a minimum of 6,000 in the country? Isn't that a mistreatment of 90,000 dollars to pay? And you don't abuse yourself when you take down the restrictions and pay half a million dollars a month? Is that not harassment? And don't you abuse when you put up, you raise gas prices when the import price of gas falls, the gas of its own production is fossilized, and you sell 11, by 12,000 per thousand cubic meters of gas to the population? This is the abuse of the economy and the citizens of Ukraine. And as far as this law is concerned, we will continue to follow the procedure, in accordance with the Rules, in keeping with the letter of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u74	I'll bet you 198 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:34]] For-48 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you 199 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:51]] For-47 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you 227 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:10:13]] For-43 Thank you. To-43. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Shufrich, 214th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u75	Thank you. I don't know who you were talking about, but I'm glad you recognized yourself in my words. I didn't say that, by the way. As a rule, "and a thief's hat burns." And as for your professionalism, that's the right thing to do. She says that she cannot be elected as a member of the National Council of a person who has a trial and continues to be a member of the National Council. We are now making an amendment (I, by the way, this is 297 amendments, please in full) to the unliquidated trial, the unliquidated trial. Because we have people who have longed for justice in various criminal cases, as we call them, authorities. So they can't take positions and positions right now? That's why we insist on an unrepentant trial. Why don't you guys be professionals for something, figure something out? We will vote in favour of this law if our amendments are taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u76	I'll bet you 214 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:40]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Shufrich, 221st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The second day in a row, I want to hear from representatives of the majority, why the authorities today tolerate that members of the National Television and Radio Council have already passed their powers for more than three years, just those appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The legitimacy of such a Nakrad raises doubts. And what she's doing right now can be explained by the fact that the authorities are holding her on to both criminal liability and positional responsibility. Why don't you take responsibility and make the vote open, as defined by the law in force, the new members, or the redefinition of these, and let all journalists see that these are actually your people. I wanted to say otherwise, but I held back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u78	221 revisions, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:11]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 225 straight, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, every time the opposition factions, whether we or the Fatherland, or others, make adjustments to correct, and, in principle, by using the procedure that we discussed many times, the Philistines, and even by delaying the adoption of harmful laws for the State, they tell us the mantras that society is waiting for something important. They passed the Land Act, everyone thought, well, right now they're going to put out a bill on tariff cuts. Hell of a two! About raising taxes and what people all have, what they've accumulated, giving to the state, and so on and so forth. And then. And what else should the opposition do in a country where the actual usurpation of power is taking place when thousands of signatures for the Earth referendum are about 17 dead souls? "Dead Souls" in those who want to sell out the land under these conditions. Read what our great countryman, Mikola Vasilovich Gogol really meant. And "dead souls" in those who really just want to have green light to stretch out as fast as they can, because they know that they'll never have a monopoly again. Thank you. Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I want you all to understand that now you are going to vote for a very important amendment, for an impeccable one that changes the word "continues" with the word "over." Clearly, how principled is this? Clearly, how important is it to us socially? Here I ask everyone to pay attention to this, and above all to the electorate of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u81	It's a big deal. I'll bet you a vote. All heard the committee's explanation. I'm betting on a vote of 225 Hair. The committee is not supported. Please vote. [[11:15:19]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 226 law. Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u82	I take it Mr. Poturaev can't hear me at all. Yes, we are deliberately blocking the adoption of this harmful bill by legal means, this is a complete right. In the Senate of the United States, senators speak for 10 hours, and no one blames them for violating the procedure, it's the right of the opposition to block harmful power initiatives if the authorities don't listen to them. We might have the right to replace "a" with "a", that's our absolute legal right. Because people have made a mistake by trusting, completely naively believing in your stories, you have absolute authority. But, thank God, there's only one person in your power who respects the law and regulations, is the leadership of the Supreme Council and the speaker who does not violate the right of opposition to make any kind of right, even if they are directly aimed at blocking the approvals that are harmful to the state of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u83	I'll bet 226 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:30.]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Pauline. 227 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, a very important amendment, which is precisely the term for which the elected or appointed member of the National Council is to be released. The authors suggest simply getting out of any other position without setting a deadline. That is, he could be in other jobs, earning 90,000 dollars, or maybe even getting a parallel salary. So my proposal is to clearly limit this to ten days that are given to the appointed person to get out of all other positions. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u85	I'll bet you 227 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:35]] For-44 The decision is not taken. And I'll bet 228 on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:53]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Volosin, 232th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. Once again, there's an absolute right of opposition to make corrections of any content, and that's normal. Because if at the committee level we ignore our position, if at the level, then all of the length of the necessary bills does not change in principle. Everyone saw, just the abuse, when they were made completely correct, meaningful, with explanations, representatives of different factions, even our ideological opponents. This was always the case with Mrs. Yuzanina, who was very correct and meaningful, emotionally explaining why something could not be approved. And everything was almost as many votes as you're changing "continue" to "over." That's why we used the filibastering procedure, we're actually blocking what you don't think is green light. A permanent holiday with bouquets worth more than the average pension in Ukraine. This is what we want to block for the "ministers of the people" so you don't think life is a holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u87	I'll bet you 232 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:19]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 237th. Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u89	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u90	Thank you. I propose in this direction 237 parts of the fourth section of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council on Television and Broadcasting" the word "limit" is deleted. This editorial is in accordance with the rules of norm-design technology. Because the very requirements of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and the cleansing of power apply to both rights and obligations and the corresponding restrictions. Thank you. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u91	I'm betting on a vote of 237 amendments to the National Deputy of Volosin, Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:30.]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 238. Hairline, please. Pass it to Zagradni. Please, Zagradi Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u92	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. This is purely technical and editorial. There was already a discussion on which word is correct for "over" or "over." But I am deeply convinced that each of us is working to ensure that our laws are clearly stated so that there are no pretenses for every statement in the future. I am convinced that in the end, when the correctional officers work on this bill, they will put those words right, and the law will be clearly written. And since this amendment is purely editorial in nature, I propose not to put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u93	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Next, 239th. Yuri Ivanovich, please, I understand, right? 239, Zagradni Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u94	Thank you. I am paragraph 2 of the second part of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting, and I ask you to exclude it completely. The establishment of a monthly deadline for the obligation to remove the restrictions laid down in Ukraine's Anti-Corruption and Pro-Purchase laws may not be consistent with the terms set out in these regulations. Thank you. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u95	Thank you. I bet on the vote of 239 the amendment of the People's Deputies of Volosin and Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:39]] For-42 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 240. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u96	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We really studied the chart very carefully for the second reading. Yes, we made many amendments not only for the purpose of blocking, but also for the purpose of not making any stupid, stupid mistakes in this law, as was unfortunately the case in the previous law that applied to the National Council on Television and Broadcasting when they took the floor when they voted in the second reading without detailed discussion. As a result, a one - and - a - half - year - long competition for the appointment of members of the National Council for Television and Radio. People have even filed documents, some of the first procedures have begun, and others have been exercising their powers for seven or more years, although they were clearly limited to five years at a time. So this work, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, is extremely important, and it does not allow the authorities to make mistakes that are then corrected not only by you but also by the next one who comes after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u97	I'm betting on the 240th amendment of the Pavlovka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:13]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 242. Nestor Ivanovich, I understand, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u98	Thank you. The point of this amendment is that the beginning of the selection of candidates for the National Council for Radio and Television starts, as proposed by the authors of the law, 90 days from the end of the five-year term of office of the respective member, and we propose 120 days. But please tell me, how do I explain the situation, I've already tried counting when it's been a thousand days? A thousand! More than a thousand days. And no one thinks, no competition and no choice about changing or re-assigning candidates and starting. What cynicism, haughtiness, and insolence! And by the way, will you still teach us the law? So just so you know, individual words that are really the same in life can have different signs in jurisprudence. And this is the sovereign right of the Ukrainian national deputy, as he wishes and in what way he submits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u99	I'm betting on a vote of 242 amendments to the People's Deputies of Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:47]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 243. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Surprisingly, this amendment was rejected. Probably because it was offered by the opposition, although it was purely editorial and made it easier to accept the standard. But the opposition was expressed yesterday when we proposed amendments to the rights of opposition when it was possible to elect members of the National Council for Television and Radio from the Supreme Council and that the opposition have guarantees of its presence. But I wasn't thinking about us, the first opposition power right now in Ukraine, but about our successors, and probably not you. Because I think in the next Parliament you're going to repeat the fate of the corresponding unit of your predecessor that you said you were his sentence, but it turns out that he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u101	I'm betting on a vote of 243 amendments to the People's Deputies of Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please Identify and Vote [[11:27:20]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next 244, Gnatenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for being able to prove your point. Actually, I'm going to the author of this bill and I want to say that we actually had a thousand 200 rights. That's, yeah, we have 400 left to consider, so we could ask that question and take it out for a week to make sure that our allowances are taken into account. And I want to remind you that there are numerous comments in this law that support the fact that our rights are very large. And this bill applies not only to megachannels, but also to small media operating in the territories. And according to this, we're proposing 244 revisions, too, to consider and include in this bill. That is, with regard to the selection of candidates for the National Council, which should start no later than 90 days before the end of the five-year term of office of the relevant member of the National Council. And the duration of the competition may not exceed 30 days. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u103	I'm betting on a vote of 244 amendments to the People's Deputies of Gnatenka, King's Landing and Scorch. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:56]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 247. Please, Pauline. 5 and we've already passed, 245 voted already, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u104	245th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u105	247th. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u106	Mr. Chairman, my colleagues are paying attention to the fact that 244 were voted and 245 was not put to the vote. So I would ask my colleague to be able to present it -- 245 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u107	I announced 247. Please report, and then we'll figure out 245. I'll ask the author to step forward. I've got a little bit more here in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u108	Okay. Then I ask you to place my voting rights now, and I will give you more details during the next report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u109	I'm betting on a vote of 247 amendments to the Pavlovka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:23]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 248, Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u110	Mr. Chairman, we had hoped that even if we had considered the bill, we would finally hear a report from the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, which is to be reported annually. But again and this year, we're pretending that we don't want to hear them. And we have very serious questions to them, why, and this has already sounded repeatedly in this room, instead of developing the information space in Donbassa, in the east, in the south of the country, they were only concerned with fighting the opposition channels, closing ZIK, NewsOne, 112, not letting the First Independent work today, punishing other opposition independent radio organizations for broadcasting only one correct point of view. Isn't that why they're doing their censoring work in Ukraine, that the authors are so eager to pay them off at the expense of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u111	I'm betting on a vote of 248 amendments to the Pavlovka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:58]] For-44 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 250. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We suggest that in the part where the beginning of the term begins, after which the procedure for appointing a potential new member of the National Council begins, start not with 7 days, but with 3 working days. We think that's more correct. Unfortunately, the committee didn't hear us. I insist that the amendment be considered. And, you know, when I look at the amendments and the position of the committee on the appointments and the beginning of the procedure, please tell me more than three years. That's the term. That's how respectable the procedure is. This respect for the Constitution. It's respect for society. To a people whose servants, you, using that name, are called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u113	I'm betting on a vote of 250 amendments to the People's Deputy Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:24]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 251. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u114	Thank you. The edit is more editorial. It refines the concept of "day" to a deeper concept of "next working day." I don't understand why it was rejected, because from a legal point of view, it's a more qualitative term. But I'm so sure nobody's interested in law enforcement here. And as far as this law is concerned, it's not interesting either. The main thing is to stretch, sell, and then what the successors will do, how to do it, nobody will care. And, you know, there's such an impression that the next Supreme Council of Ukraine will have to give at least two sessions to correct all the mistakes made by this so-called majority. Thank you for your attention. I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u115	I'm betting on a vote of 251 amendments to the People's Deputies of Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:54]] For-39
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u116	The decision is not taken. Volosin, 253. 252? Ducky. Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! My friends, let's mention this disgraceful event in the history of Ukraine, the very closure of three opposition channels that have recently taken place. And that reaction that we heard from the National Council on Television and Radio, and especially its wards. We were told some stories about information, violation of all the principles of information security, threats to Ukraine's information security. What have we received today? We get that the opposition is trying to shut their mouths and fold down fundamental constitutional values, one of which is freedom of speech. And that's a disgraceful thing to do. And Mr. Poturayev tells us something, and he smiles at his own lyrics. That's very funny, Mr. Mikito. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u118	252th Committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:45]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 253.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u120	It's a suburban.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u121	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I propose this right in part four of article 7 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, the word “starts within 7 days of the publication of the decision of the designated subject and, in the case determined by this law, from the publication of the decision of the National Council on the permanent termination of the mandate of a member of the National Council” to replace the words “is carried out in accordance with the order provided for by this law”. It is proposed that if the term of office of a member of the National Council is terminated, the competition should begin within the time limits provided for by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u122	I'll bet you 253 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:02]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 254th, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Head. 254 readjustment, it refers to the terms of the selection of candidates for the term of membership of the Nacradia in the event of the early termination of the terms of membership of the relevant National Council. My proposal to increase this term from 7 to 14 days is that, in our view, the proposal proposed by the authors and the term may significantly limit or affect the impossibility or non-admission of representatives or the public sector, public organizations, or representatives of the opposition. Therefore, the law is intended to protect the interests of all interested parties in the competition for a member of the National Council in the event of the termination of another member.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u124	The committee's 254 revisions are rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:20]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Eutushka, a minute, please. Instead of all the rights, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. In our interests, in the interests of the State of Ukraine, to make a regulator, first of all to work on a professional basis, because to explore and make certain decisions that apply to the Council and, in principle, to television and radio in Ukraine, it is very important. I'd like to ask the head of the committee, Mr. Poturayev, to comment on the situation. The law provides that a competitive set of members of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Board will be available. But this is an optional norm, and this in principle creates a legal mechanism of uncertainty. We understand that the competition is both a possibility and a mechanism that can lead a professional professional person to the job as a minimum, as a maximum of not being involved politically or in any other way. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u126	Don't you insist on voting? Thank you. Next issue is 267, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u127	Thank you. We suggest simplifying the definition in this amendment with the words, and end with the words "deputy factions." Because in the end they have the exclusive right to propose suitable candidates. And the MP factions can certainly be approached by anyone who has an interest in the process. But, dear fellows, once again, I would like to emphasize, when three channels are closed by unprecedented unconstitutional decisions of the National Security and Defence Council, and the fourth channel is entirely closed by pen scrapping, pen scrapping, excuse me, how can we talk about some legality in the field of media? So we insist that legal and constitutional justice be restored to journalists who are now deprived of their right to work. I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u128	I'm betting on the 267th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:12]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 275, Skork, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u129	Thank you, presiding officer, for the opportunity to make your amendment. And unfortunately, this 275 is also out of the profile committee and the copyright team. But I also ask her to consider and support the session room. I ask you to write part six in this paper: "The Head of the National Council and the members of the National Council have the right to have assistants (one at a time) and the Head of the National Council has the right to appoint advisers on public hearings." I think it's a very important amendment, and it needs to be considered and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u130	I'll bet you 275. Can't we set two? We can. I'll put 275 on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:28]] For-40 The decision is not taken. And 276. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:46]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 277 correct, Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u131	Thank you. With this amendment in part six of article 7 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, I propose to exclude the words "helper and referee of the National Council." The rules of law provide for the functioning of Nacrada’s apparatus and the possibility of having one assistant to each member of the National Council. However, the proposed additions to the presence of a helper and a reference to the head of the Nacrad could result in unjustified dismemberment of the staff and duplication of functions. And so I ask you to put your bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u132	I'm betting on a vote of 277 amendments to the National Deputy of Volosin and Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:56]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 278. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u133	Dear Chairman, 278th, 280th are similar, please put them to the vote. What do they have to do with this? They relate to the fact that, regardless of what is being paid to Nacradya's head, 90,000, 74, almost 75,000 dollars, a machine with serious wages is being created, the supposed consulting assistants. So no, let's add some assistants, referees and social councillors. In my opinion, it's pointless, and especially counsellors on public principles, it's the danger of corruption in the National Council itself, the more the assistant and the reference is not needed, and there is a device to provide it, and a protective service that is also provided for by this law. So I ask you to put 278th, 280th to a vote and not turn the Nacra into an incomprehensible thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u134	I bet on the vote of 278 the amendment of the Pavlovka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:24]] For-48 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you 280 people's deputies right away. The committee also suggests that we turn it down. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:45.]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 279th. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u135	Thank you. It's a precise amendment. The word "bet" please. Excuse me, what's the correct number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u136	What difference does it make, 279th? 279.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u137	No, I asked you to clarify, 281?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u138	279th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u139	With this amendment, we ask that we change the relevant terms for the protective services of employees and the leadership of members of the National Council for Television and Radio. I fully agree with my colleague Yuri Pavelenko that today it is irresponsible to blow up states in conditions where there is a terrible budget deficit. Therefore, we insist on making appropriate changes and settling the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u140	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. You're the only one who's written to replace the word "counsel" with "counsel." So you're still proposing to increase. Okay, I'm putting 279 amendments to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:18]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 281, Nestor Ivanovich, please. 281.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u141	Thank you. This amendment is exactly what we're proposing to clarify, because for many, it's completely unclear what a wager is. We're asking you to enter a normal terminology for "wage." And really the question of wages today raises a lot of questions for people who are watching the process. That is why the salaries of members of the National Television and Radio Council are higher than that of ministers, I don't even talk about national MPs anymore. And it can't be that way. We believe that all those funded by the state budget have the right to receive a maximum of five minimum wage or three average monthly wages. And in this case, these are much higher and higher. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u142	I'm betting on a vote of 281 amendments to the People's Deputies of Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:47]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 282. Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u143	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Lawyers, as well as economists who have studied this bill, as well as other experts, strongly oppose its adoption and insist that we accept all constitutional possibilities so that this law is not adopted. And it is incomprehensible at all, as this question, which is now proposed in this law to be adopted, may be put into practice. This mechanism to ensure that meetings are held without licensing is not understood at all. And as far as it's possible, for example, to decide, to take a license from some of our little local media outlets without it. In general, it is not clear how this is possible, and a person from different circumstances cannot appear, as is often the case in life, at a meeting of the National Council, and without his presence he is deprived of his license. It is not clear how it can be. So this is a question I'm asking you to consider, and the amendment that we have also proposed before the 282nd is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u144	I bet on the vote 282 amendment of the People's Deputies of Gnatenka, King's Landing and Scorch. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:19]] For-36 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 283. Lukashev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear friends, when we look at the nature and purpose of this important state institution, as the Network of Television and Broadcasting, we understand that it is the regulator first, and that this body should regulate social relations in the field of media space. But what we saw after the closure of the three opposition channels, the Nacrad became just such a swath of justification for the decisions of the authorities regarding the closure of television channels and the collapse of democratic rights and freedoms in Ukraine. So I think we need to review this approach to the appointment of the Nakradah in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u146	I'm betting on a vote of 283 amendments to the people's deputies of Kacchny, Lukashev and Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:55]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 284. Oleg Anatolyevich. Who? Please, Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u147	Thank you. With this amendment, 284 is proposed in paragraph two parts of the sixth article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting, to exclude the words “helper and referee of the National Council”. We think it's groundless to set the salary of assistants, consultants, members of the National Council, assistant and referee of the National Council is set at 1/3 of the size of the National Council's salary. At the same time, according to the provisions of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, the terms of pay, the salaries of employees of institutions and organizations financed from the budget are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please put your order to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u148	I'm betting on the vote of 284 national deputies of Volosin and Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:22]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 286. The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u149	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Again, with this right in paragraph two parts of article 7 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Broadcasting Act, replace the words "assistants-consultants of members of the National Council" with the words "patternal service workers". It's a purely editorial law to establish that only the assistant advisors of the Nacradia members are the guardians of the patron service. This is done in order not to blow up the National Council for Television and Radio. What my fellow national deputies, Yuri Pavlenko and Nestor Schufrich, have already talked about. Thank you and please put the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u150	I'm betting on a vote of 286. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:39]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next line is 289, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u151	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, in fact, this amendment, like the next 290th, refers to the wages of the disproportionate, which are established by the authors of the law not only to the members of the National Council, but even to those who work with them – the assistants, the referees and other structures that will ensure the work of the members of the National Council. Where wages are set higher than ministers, I don't talk about national MPs anymore. What kind of work is one that is so highly paid by the State? Is it not the censorship that today’s pay will thus be repaid to members of the National Council for Television and Radio? So, Mr. Golovo, please put 289th and 290th to the vote, and 291 Alexander Koltunovich to give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u152	Thank you. I'll put 289 on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:04]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 290 lashes. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:20]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Can we put it to a vote? Because I see 291, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u153	Mr. Head, I'd love to. I'm actually very constructive about any bill. MPs, listen: 90,000 dollars a salary - 90! Well, how can a minimum pension of 1 thousand 769 be set at 90,000 minimum wage in Ukraine? Do you really think we're not going to count 40 living minimums for working persons -- 40, which is 2,000 270 dollars set. Why set up 90,000 and swings a little bit smaller, up to 75,000 of them, including members of the oversight boards? Here's what's sewn up in these documents. The supervisory advice we receive today is half a million. Do you understand why "The Opposition Platform for Life" is opposed to such documents? Because we don't share this kind of socio-economic course. How can such social asymmetry be in the incomes of Ukrainian citizens? How can you pay a minimum of 90,000 dollars? I ask you not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u154	Please identify and vote. 291th. [[11:58:54]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Gnutenko, 299.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u155	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 299. Wait a minute. Mr. Head, we've missed my colleague Lukashev's 292nd. Mr. Head, please, we missed the update.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u156	You talk for a colleague. Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u157	292 revisions, missed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u158	299. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u159	Missed 292, a minute. Lukasheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u160	Gnatenko. Then we'll go to Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, if you look.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u162	Time's up. Thank you. I'm betting on a 299 vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:31]] For-36
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u163	The decision is not taken. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u164	Let's get back to work. Lukashev. None. That's where Lukashev insisted. There isn't. Lukashev. I won't. It's a suburban. I won't. Coltunovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Yeah, I can see that, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, in the hall of the Hall of the Garden Yuri Ivanovich, he will come, his amendment has already been missed. I'd like to point out that in 297 amendments, we went into it, suggested we rule out one of the points. The amendment is technical. But I would like to draw attention to the concept of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u166	It's counted, 297th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u167	Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u168	I said 303 correct, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u169	I'll be right back. Yeah, 297th counted. 299 is rejected. Gnatenko, there's a colleague of mine, so you missed her. 299, Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u170	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u171	Well, why not? 299th, Gnutenko. He is. There's a colleague sitting next to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u172	I'll be back. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Please go to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u174	Don't we put 303?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u175	Mr. Head, we've missed you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u176	I'll bet you 303 votes. No, it's not. Alexander Sergiyovich, it's about time. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:36]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 299th, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. When we look at the component that forms the salary, we know that it is not just the salary, but also the various incentives — rank, bonus, and so on. It is therefore proposed that part nine should read: "The payment of the work of the members of the National Council should provide sufficient material conditions for them to carry out properly the service obligations provided for in this Act and guarantee the principles of independence of the National Council in their activities." Please consider this amendment and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u178	I'll bet you a vote of 299. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:41]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 307, Lukashev. None. 308th, Lukashev. No, it's not. Gnutenko, 318.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u179	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u180	Okay. Is there a Ducky? Do you have a cold? It's freezing, okay. 308 correct, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u181	Thank you, Mr. Head. Paragraph 3 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting states as follows: "The First Deputy Head of the National Council is 40." The amendment will ensure a fair approach to the establishment of salaries and ensure that the duties are performed independently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u182	Thank you. 40 is 40 days, 40 years? Just to understand. You're on 40 minimum salaries. Okay. You ask too much, but, well, I bet. 309 correct, Frost. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:24]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Can we, uh, 310, 311? Don't make it 40. I'll bet you a vote. Well, you're not Frost, are you, Alexander Sergiyovich? I'll bet. Do you mind? Thank you. I'm betting on the 310 vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:56]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 311. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:14]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 317, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some adjustments that are partially taken into account. I have already reported that they do not really reflect the text of the amendment. A colleague closed the site in front of me. Thank you. Once again, when we go back to the draft law itself, why don't we accept this bill? Because President Zelenski, through the submission of his members to the supervisory boards, is trying to completely usurp and put a snag on the media in Ukraine. Why does he do this? To cover up your crimes. To hide what he does with the oligarchs. On the one hand, it lowers their tariffs for rail transport, lowers or removes the tax rate, more specifically, gives them a tax on electricity for green power plants, and keeps it going, and so on, and so on and so forth. All these things are conveniently convenient not to be reflected. So in order to hide cooperation with the oligarchs, Zelensky is the one who is making a mess of the media in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u184	I'll bet you 317 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:44]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 318 law, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, 318 revisions, unfortunately, are not supported, rejected. But it also has special meaning. The second part of the eleventh paragraph of this draft law is proposed in general. And the request to put him to the vote is also an issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u186	I'm betting on the vote number 318. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:38]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next, 319th, Ducky. None. Lukashev. Oh, there's a frost. Please, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u187	Thank you. Paragraph 2 of article 7 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act states in the following edition: "The size of the monthly Head Award, the first deputy head, the deputy head, the responsible secretary, the member of the National Council may not exceed 25 per cent of his official salary." The amendment will ensure a fair approach to bonuses, taking into account the economic crisis, reducing the premiums from 30 percent to 25 percent. Thank you, Mr. Head. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u188	Thank you. I'll bet you 319 votes. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:55]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 320th, Volosin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u189	Thank you. By the way, with regard to the redrafting of draft laws, which the political power in view of the views of their electorate, this is a key guide to which the political power must be directed, not in general, to all Ukrainians, but only to those whose interests and views are bound by a specific political power to represent and make sense of parliamentary democracy. So if the authorities finally change and start moving towards the political part of the Minsk Accords, I think that our faction and other deputies who are really interested in the eventual peace in Ukraine and the harmony, are morally prepared that other factions will make at least 10,000 rights that do not agree with the end of the Donbasa war or disagree with the implementation of the Minsk Accords, and we will be sitting here for at least weeks, and the main thing is that this is the democratic right of other political forces to take over the Supreme Council if they don't like the Minsk Agreements, or threaten to burn the President's Office, they can't, and making thousands of rights will absolutely be their right to do so if they don't like the implementation of the Minsk Accords. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u190	I'll bet you 320 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:32]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Next up, Schuffritch, 322nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u191	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The amendment relates to the paid rest of the very important, powerful members of the National Council on Television and Radio. This law offers 30 days of salary or salary of 90,000 dollars, which is nearly 51 times higher, by the way! 51 times higher than the minimum pension in the country. What makes them so happy to rest and even for such money? How do they differ from others? Twenty-four days and no more. I don't understand why they disagreed with us on the committee. Why such privileges and large salaries and such an extraordinary vacation? So we're definitely against, we're asking you to limit it to 24 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u192	I'll bet you 322 Shufrich's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:59]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Gnutenko, 323rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u193	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Regrettably, 323 is also rejected by the copyright team and the committee. And it's suggested that part of the 12th edition of this bill be printed in the following wording: "Members of the National Council are granted annual paid leave under the Ukrainian Vacation Act." So an active law, not something else, will not invent a bicycle. Please put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u194	I'll bet on a vote of 323. The committee didn't support it. I'm asking you to identify yourself and vote. [[12:45:56]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 325th, can we also put it to a vote? Do you mind? Two immediately, 325th and 324th. Yeah? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u195	324 law, the honourable Head, unfortunately, this law has become very politicized, and the National Council should not have any political colors and be really independent of the situation and the political authority. I hope we don't have every choice to change this law under the party that will be in power. So it's suggested that in 324 rights, you're going to exclude part twelve altogether. Please put to the vote and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u196	I'm betting on the 324th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:11]] For-29 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u197	Next amendment 325. National MP Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u198	Please, the microphone. Dear Chairman, thank you for giving me the opportunity to give my opinion as well. 325 revisions, unfortunately, are also rejected by the committee. What we're proposing is a part of the twelfth reading: "The Head and members of the National Council are granted annual paid leave in accordance with the Ukrainian Vacation Act." The law that is now in force, including that law. Thank you. Please allow me to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u199	There is 325 amendments to the people's deputies of Skork, King's Landing. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:17]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 326. Lukashev. Ice cream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u200	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regrettably, 326 is rejected inexplicably. We talked about how few members of the National Council get crazy. They'll get a crazy salary when people don't have jobs at all on Donbas, they're still on vacation for 45 days. That's exactly what this amendment says about the 12 members of the National Council being given an annual paid leave of no more than 24 days with the payment of material health care for a monthly average wage. The amendment grants the right to a paid vacation that guarantees the constitutional right to rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u201	There is 326 amendments to the National Deputies of Kacny, Lukashev and Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:52]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next 327. It's a suburban.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u202	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Amendment 327 proposes part of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting to exclude. Why? Because according to the "Work Pay Act", article 8, it is stipulated that the terms of the salaries of employees of institutions and organizations funded by the budget are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you, and the amendment please be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u203	I'm betting on the vote of 327 of the amendment of Volosin and of the Garden. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:51]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 328. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u204	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that we have some adjustments in our coauthorship with Pauline. The second block of amendments is going more economically and it's about wages, and I'll report them. First. The other one. According to President Greensky, who yesterday, who had the nerve to say that we should move away from poverty. Indeed, in this bill, members of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting are moving away from poverty: the head salary is 80,000 dollars, and members of the National Council are set up to pay 74,000 910 dollars. I understand they're moving away from poverty from the initiative of the President of Ukraine. I do not share such views and views. The amendment certainly applies to a vacation. But I want our national MPs and, above all, the electorates to finally hear what the President's for usurping power in the country and why this bill is going on in the first place. In order for the President to tell all the media-controlled channels, manual channels, that we need to overcome poverty, and do everything we can to get such insolent wages in the country, I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u205	I'm betting on the vote of 328 Koltunović. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:31]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 331 law, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u206	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. With regard to the amendment, it is really necessary to establish the basis for the early termination of the powers of members of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, particularly at their own request, since this should also be in line with the principles of labour law. We therefore propose paragraph 1 of section 1 of article 8 of the bill to be drafted as follows: "appealing a written application for discharge at the request of the subject of the appointment." Thank you. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u207	I'm betting on 331 of Lukasheva's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:45]] For-32 The decision is not taken. 332 axles. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I would like to remind you that this year the Supreme Council, most of them, voted in favour of the draft state budget and the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the 21st year, with a deficit of 246.6 billion dollars. This is a record, at least in the recent history of Ukraine, a deficit for the state budget. At the same time, the country’s payroll also has a historical maximum of almost 3.6 billion dollars. Instead of paying off the payroll debt, they're trying to shift these funds to the hand-to-hand office of President Nacrad on television and radio. They're trying to bribe them, because giving them 80 grand's wages, plus bonuses, bonuses and all that is, they're part of the supervisor's. We're going to have to catch up on these revenues with our members of the board of supervisors. All of you know the hard evidence of the Crossroads when people get 588,000 dollars. We don't have to let that happen in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u209	I'll bet you 332 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:15.]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Slavic, 333 straight. Antonina Kerimovna won't speak? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u210	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. To be honest, I have a quiet roof. What do we propose? We propose a reason for stopping a member of the National Television and Radio Council’s mandate to consider imposing an administrative burden on the commission of an offence (note!This is related to corruption. How can a person then work as a member of the National Council, which is still considered the most corrupt organ in Ukraine? So after you don't vote that a corrupt member of the National Council can't stay a member of the National Council, you're not what the Bydens and the Stoltenbergs are going to talk to you in Europe at all. What are you covering for corruption? Do you want to fight this or do you want to lead? I don't understand. Today, Ukrainians say that conflict on Donbassa and corruption is killing Ukraine. And you're encouraging it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u211	I'll bet you 333 votes. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:58]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next line, Lukashev, 335th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u212	Thank you, Mr. Head. Our amendment refers to the establishment of grounds for the early termination of the powers of members of the National Council for Television and Radio Regulations in relation to health. In fact, all living people, sometimes health fails, all the more so in such a responsible state office. We therefore propose that paragraph 5 of the first section of article 8 of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting Act should read as follows: "Inability to carry out their health duties for six or more months after a medical conclusion has been made available." So I would ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u213	I'm betting on the 335th vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:17]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 336. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u214	Thank you. Part one of article 8 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, paragraph 5 of the bill, contradicts the requirements of the Ukrainian State Service Act. In accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian State Service Act, the reasons for the cessation of public service in relation to circumstances that have arisen independently of the parties’ will are, inter alia, the inability of a public official to carry out public service obligations under a state of health due to the availability of a medical conclusion, the order of which is determined by the central authority of the executive authority, which ensures the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of public service. And the central executive body that provides for the formation and implementation of public health policies. That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u215	I'm betting on a vote of 336 amendments to the national deputies of Volosin and Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:57]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 337. Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u216	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Paragraph 5 of the first part of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, after the words "medical conclusion", I believe that the words "confirmed by the court" should be added in order to fully comply with the Ukrainian Law on State Service. Thank you and please put the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u217	I'm betting on a vote of 337 amendments to the national deputies of Volosin, Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:53]] For-33 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 338, Pauline. Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u218	Thank you, Mr. Head. The 338 amendment is set out in a comparative table who wants to read. I would like to draw attention to another rule that is, in my opinion, inappropriate in this draft law, which remains a quota of 4 persons for the President of Ukraine. It's strange that there should be a representative of the President of Ukraine in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, four more people. Very symbolic. President, who shuts down four independent information channels illegally in an unconstitutional way: 112 Ukraine, NewsOne, ZIK and First Independent. These are channels that showed the truth about the tariff genocide, about this social paradigm of today's power, which, on the one hand, gives a person a pension of 1 thousand 769 dollars, and, on the other hand, places in Nacrad up to 80,000 wages. That's how we have social justice from Green or Green. That's why I think that people like that and the President in general, we're going to give him an election rating. And the President's representation has no right to have it in Nacrad because he's an interested person to hide his crimes against the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u219	I'm betting on a vote of 338 amendments. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:26]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next 339, Frost. Lukashev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u220	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we are really talking about the organizational and legal nuances of this bill right now. But really my colleague, Alexander Koltunovich, is right, who is noticing the economic and financial elements of this bill. Let's imagine that these cloudy wages of the heads of the Nakrad and the members of the Nakrad and the people who are going to impoverish each day cannot spend the necessary resources to accept digital signals and digital speech. And that's very relevant in Lugansk. People cannot have access to the language of the Ukrainian channels, especially after the closing of the opposition channels. Thank you. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u221	I'll bet you 339 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:57]] For-33 The decision is not taken. 341st, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u222	Thank you. We have a very simple correction in this case. There is such understanding as the groundless causes of absence, and there is a lack of participation for a valid reason. We believe that given that other laws clearly define the principles of groundlessness, it is to leave the term "irresistible." And, frankly, the more this Nakrad is not going to be gathering up and in this assembly, the better, the more relaxed and peaceful it will be for journalists and the more there will be a rating of freedom of speech for Ukraine. Don't let them come to work at all. And believe me, journalism only wins. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u223	I'm betting on the vote number 341. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:28]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Edit 343, Garden. A hairline?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u224	Please pass the word Volosin Oleg Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u225	343.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u226	Thank you. Again, this is about correcting certain provisions in the proposed bill on the procedure for the termination of the powers of members of the National Council. I propose that where the language goes, that the basis for the termination of the credentials is to pass more than half of the board meetings during. In three sessions in a row, replace with the words "for one month." Because we think that the members of Nacrada, you're still giving them huge social benefits. And what's completely contrary to the general line of magnitude that all other bills are trying to limit against the social impact of our nation's Constitution on our budget. And here our members of the Nakrad are just being set up by some kind of Eldorado. And they're as complicated as they can get. That is, they make life easier for them. I mean, you can walk, unlike the same deputies, and for that, you don't have any responsibility. So I do propose that we increase their responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u227	343rd. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:05]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next item. Coltunovich, 344.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u228	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll have a question for the committee head. I've read the documents accompanying this law on the site, there's chapter five, Financial Economic Grounding. And you're saying that the adoption of this bill requires additional spending from the state budget. There is no conclusion either by the budget committee or by Minfin. How much more is planned? Whether there will be a budget for this issue, so that we can understand and, in principle, its fate or its drinking weight in this year's budget. This time. The other one. If even these changes come into force in the following year, this is still some amount that is linked to the minimum subsistence minimum for a working person. It's an important question that I think it would be appropriate for you to hear the answer here. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u229	I'll bet you 344 votes. The committee supported it. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:18]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Shufrich, 354.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u230	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. It's very simple. We ask you to clarify the terms for days, days of work. We think it's going to be fairer, more correct. I don't understand why the committee has a different opinion. There can be only one conclusion. They don't care what the law is going to be. The main thing is to get rid of this load, to leave everything as it is, to drive journalists under the plentuse so they can't say that 56 percent have raised the tariffs, that the minimum pension today is 2 times lower than in 2013. And even a dollar has been devalued by 25 percent during this period. What are you talking about? And what they've reduced from 4 million to 2 million today is also the merit of "people's servants."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u231	I'll bet you a vote of 354. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:59]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 355th, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u232	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'll tell you what, with the National Council and the law that's under consideration today, the participation of 112 channels, NewsOne, ZIK is waiting for other channels that are telling the truth today, the real situation in our country. And I think that's a question that's going to shoot a lot of TV channels and our country's radio with a hunch, looping on their necks. Therefore, I would like to see 355 amendments in this version: "In the case provided for in paragraphs 1 and 8 of this first article, the decision to terminate the term of office of a member of the National Council shall be taken by the National Council." Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u233	I'll bet you 355 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:22]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 356th, Frost. Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u234	Give Lukash to me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u235	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really very difficult to scream at our colleagues' consciousness, but I believe that the issue of freedom of speech goes far beyond the legal status of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Indeed, freedom of speech is a fundamental cornerstone of the rule of law. And if there's such a bold attack, an invasion of freedom of speech, a collapse of fundamental constitutional values, then our discussion with you about the technical legal nuances of appointment or the liberation of the Nakrad members seems kind of secondary. So I suggest we support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u236	I'll bet you 356 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:55]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 357th, Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u237	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Part two of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting proposes that this law exclude the sentence of this content: "If, within 14 days of receipt of the application, the National Council decides to terminate the term of office of a member of the National Council." Article 8 of the bill provides for the right of the Nakrad to decide for themselves whether to terminate the term of office of a member of the Nakrad if the subject of the appointment has not issued an act within 14 days of receipt of the application. However, this position is not consistent with the appointment procedure itself, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints members of the Nacrada by appropriate decree and the President by decree. Therefore, there must also be an appropriate act in the event of liberation. I ask you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u238	I'll bet you 357 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:29]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next line is 359, Kiwa. You don't? And the co-author is Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u239	Thank you, Mr. Head. I see you're joking. And I've calculated the budget for this question because the committee head is not commenting. The lack of financial and economic justification documents require additional expenditure from the budget. If we take a head with a salary of 90,000 800, it's going to be 1 million 89,000 dollars per year. If we take it for the first game, there's going to be $1 million per year. If we take the deputy, it's going to be 953,000 thousand 400 dollars. Members of the Supervisory Boards, for four members of the Supervisory Boards -- 3.6 million dollars -- that's their annual salary. In total, it was calculated earlier, 6.6 million dollars -- it's just an annual salary. It's 12 months, it's no vacations, no bonuses, no allowances, no other expenses. I'm sorry, but 91,000 and 6.6 million dollars for a few people's salary, sorry, but to not be censored, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u240	My colleagues, I don't think there's any argument about wages, but it's not about her. I'll bet you vote 359. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:08]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next line, Schufrich, 362.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear Chairman, in this case, we ask you to exclude the second sentence of this sub-paragraph of this section and we think it's perfectly logical, on the other hand, that I would like to draw attention once again to all those present. Now we're discussing this bill very strictly, and the individual amendments have been taken into account, and the others haven't. But why do we not obey the law that is in force today, which is the law?In which language do you say, we have to do it, and we ignore our constitutional powers and do not change today the members of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, which are to be assigned to our quota, the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[expression in foreign language]] It's impossible to explain. I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u242	I bet on the vote of 362 the amendment of the People's Deputies of Šufric, Black and Slavic. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[1:17:41]] For-44 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u243	Edit 363. Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u244	Thank you, Mr. Head. Our amendment refers to an organizational moment and foresees that when a member of the National Council of Ukraine is terminated from television and radio broadcasting of Ukrainian citizenship, or when a judicial decision is taken against it by the accused court to terminate the powers of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting issues, the National Council is, in fact, taking the decision. So we ask you to support our amendment by putting it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u245	I'm betting on a 363 vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:49]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next line, Schuffritch, 367th. Next, Coltunovich, 370 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u246	Thank you. No, no, I'm telling you, I've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u247	Coltunovich, 370 axles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u248	Thank you, Mr. Head. I understand your previous observation that we are not always essentially correct, but as the head of the State Economic Policy Subcommittee, we have an important responsibility and nose that the economic parameters of this law do not correspond to either the budgetary process in Ukraine or the economic reality. You will understand correctly, and no one has a preoccupation with Zelensky and his course in Ukraine. But how can such policies be viewed? See, when a person comes out publicly, he has to end up with a period of poverty, and he goes to the polls. We understand that 90,000,800 dollars for Nakrad's head on television and radio is just the beginning, and they're going to continue to get half a million dollars a month on other payments. Imagine that, premiums, bonuses, we see this on the Crossroads, well, how can a social course like that or an antisocial one be implemented in a country? So we're still going to insist, colleagues, I see, accept this idea, let's give up such shameful wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u249	I'll bet you 370 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:36]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 368, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u250	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Edit refers to clarification, it's more editorial. I'm surprised she wasn't counted. But I want to pay attention to the following. In fact, today it seems strange that we have the ratio of pensions and the salaries of officials of such a high level that they are unrealistic -- 50 times more. Please tell me, what did our pensioners do? And what will the regulator’s manager do so prominently that he will receive 51 times more money than our pensioners? Even if we take the average pension, it's going to be more than 40 times. I believe that this attitude toward our citizens is irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u251	I'll bet you 368 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:02]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next line, Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna, 375. 306th, yes. Two revisions are 306, 375. 306 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! I have two really conceptual issues, I'd like your attention. We discussed this, in principle, both with the head of the committee and with the committee of profile. All my adjustments were taken into account. 306 revision refers to, in fact, a very banal thing, on one side. However, these are official salaries for members of the National Council for Television and Radio. I suggest in my 306th right that we compare them absolutely to those allowances that are in the Presidium of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the head of the National Council will have the same benefits as the Speaker of the Supreme Council, the deputies will have, and the members of the Nakrad will have the same benefits as the Presidency of the Supreme Council, not 40 percent. So 12, 11 and 11 are for each member of the National Council. Not 40, 35, 37, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u253	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, we have, indeed, considered this matter very carefully. I'll have your attention! It's a national regulator in one of the most important areas of our lives. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's only eight people. There's only eight people! To date, this regulator is the least funded by all regulators in the country, with the lowest wages. In fact, this bill, it goes into, let's say, the anti-oligarchy direction of our activity, when we want to ensure that government authorities are not influenced by possible corrupt oligarchs. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, of course, colleagues, we want to set the maximum level of protection against any corruption risk of pay. And there's nothing strange about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u255	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't buy a speaker! Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, vote number 306 Condratiuk. The position of the committee you just heard. Please vote. [[13:25:08]] For 230 Decision taken. Next line is 375, Condratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your support. 375 revisions are equally important. Dear colleagues, it refers to the procedure for the release of members of the Nakrad in the event that their report is not accepted in the Supreme Council. In fact, 375 laws regulate the issue of reporting through the Supreme Council's ruling, as was now the case in today's conditions, not the failure in the Rules, as proposed by the Committee. I think it's basically just a lack of work by a small committee because we have exactly the same right: to call back in case of bad reporting by the members of the Nakrad -- just as the President of Ukraine has the right to do so. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u257	Let's go to the vote. Edit 375 partially counted. The author insists on taking full account. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[13:26:42]] For-119 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next line, Schuffritch, 377th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is important to address the text of this amendment, namely: "The permanent termination of the powers of the entire National Council is due to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recognize the unsatisfactory work of the National Council. In that case, the permanent termination of powers has taken place since the adoption of such a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I have a question. We're a parliamentary republic. I am now strengthening the authority of the Supreme Council not only for our convening, but also for the following calls, me and my colleagues. I don't understand why this amendment was rejected. Unless someone doubts the ability to make decisions with you and our successors. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be supported and made possible for the Ukrainian national deputies to appreciate the work of the National Council on Television and Broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u259	I'm betting on a vote of 377 Schuffritch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:14]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next line, Gnatenko, 378th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u260	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This amendment also applies to the early termination of the members of the National Council. And it is suggested that part of the seventh article 8 should read: "The early termination of the powers of the entire National Council is due to non-approval in the annual report of the National Council established by this Act. The decision to terminate the term of office of a member of the National Council shall be taken by the President of Ukraine, issuing the relevant decree, or by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by taking the appropriate decision. And such decisions shall be approved no later than one month from the date of non-approval by the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine of the annual report of the National Council." I ask you to put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u261	I'm betting on a vote of 378 right. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:23]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 379 law. Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u262	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, our bill is an organizational guide and sets up an act on the basis of which the powers of the members of the National Council are suspended. This is, in particular, the President's decree and the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, we propose a section of article 8 of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting Act in the following edition: "In the case envisaged in paragraph 8 of part one of this article, the decision to terminate the mandate of a member of the National Council on Television and Radio is taken by the President of Ukraine – by issuing an appropriate decree, or by the Supreme Council of Ukraine – by taking an appropriate decision." Please support our revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u263	I'm betting on the 379th vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:42]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 381st, Pawel. Sorry, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u264	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to go to the honourable vice-speaker, because we've voted on really important standards, and yet I'd like to add, we've only voted on interest rates. We voted in your amendment, which I also voted for, we lowered this threshold to 12, for example, minimum subsistence minimums, but further in the body of the law, there are still payments, payments, and there are other positions, I have discovered the main body of the law. Do you understand what the difference is? They're, for example, instead of 27,000, they're going to get it with bonuses and more. There's a 30-percent allowance in the body of the document, but on account of other payments, they're going to do it on the basis of Crossroads, and so, in our opinion, it's important to add, in addition to those amendments to your valid ones that we also supported, other things that are being removed for other derivatives, because it's going to be the second Crossroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u265	But this is not the case. I'll bet you vote 381. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:10]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 383 law, Schofrich. Sorry, it's partially accounted for. Next line is 389, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u266	Dear Chairman! Of course, today we insist that visions of this law of opposition be taken into account. We see total disregard for the fundamental amendments that are proposed independently to the personnel of the relevant body to which we delegate our representatives. And such disdain today is explained only by one desire to wave, speed up, and take control of the body that today affects freedom of speech that punishes journalists for what guests say in the study. How is that possible? Something about the study is not about responsibility, but the media is about specific journalists. This must be fought, protected by journalists, and not destroyed by freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u267	I'm betting on a vote of 389th Amendment of People's Deputies Schufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:52]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 391, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u268	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for being able to make your amendment. The second part is proposed in the next edition, headed by its manager, and the head of the apparatus is assigned for 5 years. Unfortunately, this amendment is not considered positively on the committee. But this is very important. Please put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u269	I'm betting on a vote of 391 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:39]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 392. Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u270	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Amendment 392, unfortunately, is also rejected by the committee. But it should also count. And I think we should put her to the vote. The question is that the apparatus is headed by its leader. And the manager is assigned for a term of no more than five years, including just one term. So that this position may no longer be an inheritance. Please put this question to the vote, perhaps take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u271	I'm betting on a vote of 392 amendments to the people's deputies of Skork, King's Landing and Gymnastics. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:36]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Amendment 393, People’s Deputy Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u272	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. We're fighting a desperate fight. And realizing that if five years is an unacceptable term for the appointment of the head of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio, I and my colleagues, Frost and Kacny, consider it possible to appoint a four-year head of staff. Therefore, we propose a section of article 12 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, in an appropriate editorial on the headship of the apparatus by its four-year term manager. I find this amendment acceptable. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u273	I'm betting on a 393 vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:03]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 394th, Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u274	Please pass the word Volosin Oleg Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u275	Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u276	Thank you. By the way, this story about high wages guaranteeing itself against corruption, the country has been through a few years, and something we don't see in the example of Ukrenergez, or in the example of Naftogazu, or in the example of Ukrenergo, other state-owned companies of some systematic overcoming of corruption, because there are ongoing investigations and scandals. Right now, in these moments, there's another battle for the leadership of Naftogaz. In itself, large salaries do not solve anything. That's the first one. Secondly, when we aim to, say, conditionally release members of the National Council from the influence of certain oligarchs who actually own certain media but exist in a competitive environment, while a certain political team in power is a monopoly, we can remember that the President may be an oligarch, as was the case with the previous presidential cadence. So in itself throwing huge money to the National Council in conditions where people have an average pension one of the lowest in Europe is actually unfair abuse and nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u277	I'm betting on a vote of 394 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:40]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Amendment 395, Pauline. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u278	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u279	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Returning to our theme, why we are. Yes, the amendment is of a technical, recommendational nature. It's in the table. Anyone wants to see it. Why did we draw attention to the fact that the incomes offered were uneven? It was very important that these crazy numbers be heard by our national MPs. I am grateful for their support. But that's just part of it. Because when you proposed between 6.6 and 40.2 million dollars, we counted because they didn't give those numbers. And 40 million dollars from the budget per year to throw away for someone there to pay between 90 and 500 thousand wages with allowances and other things, we thought these things were immoral. We will continue to stand in other positions so that the pseudo-poverty era of Zelensky will not end with the adoption of such shameful bills. That's the first one. One second. We will also insist that the President in the parliamentary-presidential republic has his own unconstitutional decrees, which we will sue the Supreme Court for illegal closure of television channels, so let him not mess with his nose in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u280	I am betting on a vote of 395 amendments to the National Deputies of Pavlenko, Kiwa and Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:19]] For-41
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u281	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Shufrich, 398.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u282	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to stress once again, by the way, to the journalist's knowledge, that the previous amendment, which was not supported by me and my colleagues, was about not being able to continue the mandate after the deadline. This disgraceful practice, when members of the Nakrad for three years passed their mandate, we wanted to exclude it. Unfortunately, this has gone through, and this law must be something someone really needs. And today I want to talk about success. How can it be that out of the 11 million of our respected pensioners, they've received a grant, the most is four million, and now only two. Four million were before Zelensky came to power. Do you think that people with 63 dollars of minimum pension have become much richer and have to cut the number of grants by 2 million? It's a crime against people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u283	I'm betting on a vote of 398 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:53]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 399. Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u284	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, he carried out a mission on wages. Please pass the word to Pauline, coauthor of the amendment. I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u285	Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u286	Dear Chairman, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the amendment in question relates to article 12, and we propose in the list that there are circumstances that cannot be the appointed head of the Apparatus to fill in, in particular, paragraph 3 of this content: that a person may not be appointed as head of the Apparatus, who is tried for committing a deliberate crime, if the trial is not executed or removed within the prescribed legal term. I think that the restriction for such a position is extremely important. And it's amazing why neither the authors nor the committee supported the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u287	I'm betting on a vote of 399 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:19]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 403, Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u288	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Amendment 403 is generally proposed to be excluded from Part Four. We all know that media is the fourth authority in Ukraine that is not owned by anyone: neither by the President nor by the Supreme Council. But by this law, the media of all nations are being pushed into some sort of stable state, and the committee supports this shameful practice and takes a major part in it. So I suggest, once again, that part of this draft law be deleted. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u289	I'm betting on a vote of 403 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:24]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 404, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u290	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Once again, I would like to draw attention to such a gruesome problem, a long-standing one, that is the closing of the three opposition TV channels. And I have a lot of references coming to me from my voters in Lugansk, who are unable to watch Ukrainian products and are actually taken off the Ukrainian language. So I think that our common goal is to define the legal status of the National Television and Radio Council in such a way that the regulator provides guarantees, guarantees of freedom of speech in Ukraine and Ukraine have access to true information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u291	I'm betting on a vote of 404 amendments, and the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:50.]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next 405. The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u292	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. This right is proposed in part four of article 12 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radiology Act after the words "appointment for office" are added with the words "conform to the requirements of the Anti-Corruption Act". Because this right adds that the newly appointed head of apparatus is obliged to remove the conflict of interest within 30 days of his appointment in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Since article 28 of the Act on State Service obliges civil servants not only to take action to resolve a real or potential conflict of interest, but rather to avoid a real potential conflict of interest. And so I ask for permission to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u293	I'll bet you 405 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:15]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next line is 406, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u294	Please give Paulie a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u295	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u296	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The amendment also applies to article 12 and refers to the head of the National Council’s apparatus. The authors suggest that the newly appointed manager should remove the conflict of interest within 30 days of his appointment. I'm paying attention to both the honourable national MPs and the drafters of the bill that state officials should comply with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and be responsible for filing applications for appointment, and remove all conflicts prior to appointment, but not after they've been appointed. Strangely enough, you want to assign the head of the apparatus to this law: with the courts, with the conflict of interest, with what else, perhaps, things, to be the same instrument of forming the Nakrad as the criminal authority against the media and the body that will form censorship in the country. Which, by the way, I remind you is forbidden by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u297	I'll bet you 406 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:57]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Ice cream, 414.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u298	Thank you, Mr. Head. The 414 revision was unfortunately rejected, but it carries very important things in it by appointment and the head of the apparatus. It reads as follows: Part five of article 12 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Broadcasting Act, which reads as follows: “The Head of the apparatus is appointed by the National Council for the results of an open competition or the way in which a decision on the basis of a statement by the person receiving the post of Head of the apparatus is transferred in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Ukrainian State Service Act,” or by the termination of a decision on the basis of a statement by the person receiving the post of Head of the apparatus, for a further four-year term without the mandatory conduct of the competition (the application shall be filed no later than 30 days before the end of the appointment and shall be considered by the National Council before the expiration of the appointment). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u299	I'll bet you 414 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:32]] For-32 The decision is not taken. And 440 revisions, Gnatenko. Sorry, 420.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u300	420th, yes. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The amendment refers to the release from office of the National Board of Directors. And it's suggested that we make these proposals at all. Part six of the text reads: "The Head of the apparatus shall be released from office by the National Council upon completion of the term of office or on the grounds laid down in the Ukrainian Act on State Service." This is a very important proposal and I ask you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u301	Thank you. I'll bet you 420 votes. I get it, 421, they're exactly the same. 420. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:33]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 421 revisions, also Gnatenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:55]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next up, Frost, 422.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u302	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regrettably, the 422 was rejected. I also want to say that a lot of my countrymen are on the phone with me right now on Donbas. And they say, and tell these people to include our 112 channels, ZIK and NewsOne, because these are the only channels that we could see and hear through them the truth. Part six of article 12 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting" should be supplemented by the following paragraph: "The Head of the apparatus shall be released from office by the National Council after the end of the term of appointment (except in the case of a re-delegation for the next four-year term without the mandatory holding of the competition) or on the grounds set out in the Ukrainian Act "On State Service". The amendment provides for the release from office of head of the Nacrada apparatus after completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u303	I'm betting on a vote of 422. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:31]] For-33 The decision is not taken. 426 axle. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u304	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Note that this amendment is editorial in nature, and all of the previous ones proposed by our colleagues, including me, involved my refusal to represent on the council of people who have already been judged by the court for administrative misconduct related to corruption. How is it that the court has already recognized a person as a corrupter (or her relatives) that he continued to work? It seems that a new roof is being created to eliminate freedom of speech and war, to fight journalists who want and have the right to speak the truth. How can this be, in fact, the presence of corruptionists in the National Council on Television and Radio is now legalized. And please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u305	I'm betting on the vote number 426. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:57]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 427, Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u306	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Before proposing these amendments, our experts have studied better European practices regarding the work of the national councils of those European states, and we believe that this issue needs to be taken into account by the legislators who are drafting this bill. What do we propose under regulation 427, which is unfortunately rejected? That the structure, structure, and position of the National Council apparatus should be approved by the head of the National Council. And I'm going to ask you to put this part of the seventh part in these texts. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u307	I'll bet you 427 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:06]] For-32 The decision is not taken. I take it we can vote in 431, too? I'm betting on the 431st vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:26]] For-32 The decision is not taken. 432, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u308	Thank you, Mr. Head. This is editorial in connection with the change in the structure of the article. But that's not the point. The main thing is that in the rule of law democratic state, which is in accordance with article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, our state, the Ukrainian state, should be guaranteed freedom of speech as a fundamental constitutional value. And I can't explain why Ukraine is pursuing such a policy that foreign languages dominate the media in different territories. I think this policy is anti-government and criminal. It is therefore necessary to make urgent adjustments in order to ensure Ukraine’s sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u309	I'll bet you 432 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:00]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next up, Frost, 434.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u310	Thank you, Mr. Head. Amendment 434 is a purely editorial law that says that part of article 12 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting" should be considered part of the ninth. An editorial due to the change in the numbering of parts of the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-16-m0.u311	I'm betting on a vote of 434. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:01]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
