ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by pressing the "for" button, the green button, the first button on the left, using the sensor button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:04:31]] There are 237 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of two of our colleagues, two of Ukraine's national deputies, Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski and Maxim Vasilovich Pavluk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I salute you! I want success from both my colleagues and my health. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You have been invited to consider a draft regulation repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the sale of or rights to land of state and municipal property. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, is invited to attend. Registration number 2195-P.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u2	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, the Ukrainians! Today, the time of truth is coming for the authorities and for all the Ukrainian people. Today, the Constitutional Court begins hearings about the repeal of the Land Act, which was voted on and approved by the Supreme Council and signed by the President last year, during a period of pandemic when Ukrainians were unable to come and express their position on the opening of the so-called land market. Will the Constitutional Court, a more faithful judge of the Constitutional Court, really, not under pressure of authority, be able to decide according to applicable legislation? According to a study by our lawyers, the 22 articles of the Constitution were violated when the bill was passed. Next thing. On June 1, this year, farmers, representatives of the public and the Fatherland faction submitted documents to the Central Election Commission requiring 11,000 citizens as an initiative group to hold an all-U.S. referendum on whether or not they agree to sell land for agricultural purposes to someone other than the State of Ukraine. And we believe that the Central Election Commission has within 10 days, according to the Referendum Act, permission for an initiative group to collect signatures to hold an all-U.S. referendum on this important issue. We firmly believe that President Zelensky, who promised the peoples of Ukraine, will fulfill his duty, and this issue will be brought to an all - Ukrainian referendum. Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u3	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dubil Valeriy Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Labunska Angela Viktorovna, is invited to attend. National Deputy Kabachenko Volodymir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u4	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! I'm not talking about an all-Ukrainian referendum right now, I'm not talking about the 12,000 people of an initiative group who have already assembled and already opposed the opening of the land market. Now I'm not talking about the Constitutional Court, which has already begun to consider the introduction of unconstitutional laws on opening up the land market. Now I'm not even talking about breaking the 22 articles of the Constitution that broke the three bills. I'm talking about logic. The logic of Bill 2195 is very simple, it changes only two articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land. It cancels off off-line auctions and instead introduces the exclusive right to conduct e-commerce. How can we today introduce an exclusive right to conduct electronic commerce, provided that the distribution of the Internet in Ukraine is 65 percent of the state of affairs today? There is an entire government program that says that the percent coverage of Ukraine’s territory will be by 2024, that is, 3 years from now. At the very least, we need to introduce "Transitional positions" into this bill, which would eliminate exclusive electronic commerce and compromise two approaches to both e-commerce and off-line trading. This is the only right moment and this is what will help this bill in practice be useful for every single person who wants to participate in electronic and offline trades. Thank you very much for your attention. I hope so much for your consciousness, I hope you've heard our arguments. Thank you very much. Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u5	Thank you. The Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u6	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you know, there can be no successful reform, any successful reform when we talk about most Ukrainian citizens not supporting the land market. And I'm sure it will be a few years from now when citizens will know clearly which of the deputies voted against the will of the people. Today, you can say that "Paternity" is the only faction that didn't vote for opening up the land market. And there is now a meeting of the Constitutional Court, where the Fatherland and the Farmers' Association, Julius Timoshenko represents the people's position directly. Many gathered at the Constitutional Court, many non-parliamentary parties, public organizations, and all of them at the same time support what a referendum is to be held. Because the President promised to ask Ukrainian citizens what to do with the key issues. And the question of the earth is crucial, colleagues. It's not just land, it's territory, it's not just goods, it's a means of production. The earth will continue to produce crops, and food security will depend on those belonging to the Ukrainian land. We should think and talk to investors about processing. We need to talk not about speculators on Ukrainian soil but about farmers. We need to develop our farming system and do everything we can so that farmers can take credit so that farmers can participate in the full market of the land. And these farmers are going to keep the village network. Fellows, think what you're doing today! The time will come, every last name will be put in the house, and we will show you how we acted on behalf of the people or against the will of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u7	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Puziyczuk Andri Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u8	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Today is truly a historic event for an independent Ukraine. Today, the Constitutional Court has begun its review of the submission of the Fatherland, supported by our leader, Volodymyrna Timoshenko, other members of Parliament, of the annulment of the Ukrainian Land Sales Act. Our leader is now in the Constitutional Court, defending the right of Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian people to own our Ukrainian land. At a time when war is going on in eastern Ukraine, unfortunately, the majority are trying to sell out the land. On Tuesday, June 1, 2021, the Fatherskina faction submitted to the Central Electoral Commission, along with the Association of Farmers, Agriculture, Ukrainian citizens' registration documents for the initiative group. More than 11,000 citizens who wanted to collect signatures and defend the Ukrainian people’s right to land had been filed. To date, President Zelensky, the Office of the President, controls most of the Central Electoral Commission. And we're going to see how President Zelensky's test will go, whether he's really in charge of the people, whether he really supports the referendum, whether he's afraid of the referendum. Because 79 percent of Ukrainian citizens oppose selling land, 77 percent of Ukrainian citizens demand a referendum. And only the Ukrainian people have to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u9	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Tsavajchenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens of Ukraine! Why do we order the annulment of the voting without your permission, Ukrainian citizens, without your decision to sell the land? Because we, the Fatherland faction, are clearly claiming the threat of dispossessing Ukrainian citizens. We make it clear that no corrupt shadow scheme on earth has been eliminated, the earth, in fact, has not yet been passed on to you, to all united territorial communities, to you citizens of Ukraine. Why is it so important for order and law to take place on earth, but Ukrainian laws, the Ukrainian order? Because it is a priceless resource, which is and is to remain in the independent state in charge, in the possession and use of Ukrainian citizens. That is why today he is fighting for you, for each of you, citizens of Ukraine, Julia Timoshenko in the Constitutional Court. That's why it's so important that an honest, all-U.S. referendum is announced that you and only you Ukrainian citizens will decide whether you agree or not to sell the land. You will decide how this is provided for in the Constitution, and this is the right time to return it to you Ukrainian citizens once and for all. Here and now in your home country, you citizens of Ukraine will decide, and the authorities will have to run both in Parliament and in the President and in the government. This is how we see "Fatherland", the development and establishment of a real social European state in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u11	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u12	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Regulatory Committee reviewed draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing Parliament's decision on the second reading and the entire draft of Law 2195, introduced by the People's Deputies Timoshenko and Cimbaluk, Dubil, Labunski, Kabachenko, Yvchenk and Kirilenko, Puzijczuk and Nadtawichenko. These draft decrees propose to repeal the decision on the second reading and the whole of the draft Law 2195, since, according to the vast majority of the drafters of the regulations, this law was, in their opinion, adopted in violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the committee has adopted conclusions on all draft regulations, the registration numbers are on the screen, and recommends that Parliament be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u13	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Is it? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Knieżicki Mikola Leonidovic, is invited to the floor, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Dear colleagues, I would like to leave the passages open so that MPs can freely get to the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" has consistently advocated that Ukrainians own their land. That's why we voted in favour of the Land Circumstances Act, but that's why we said that until the land inventory was carried out, it's not just premature, it's criminal, because we still don't know how much land and whose property they are in Ukraine. Obviously, we will support all these decisions. We will be supportive because we firmly believe that we cannot distribute the earth to all without conditions. Earth is a way to raise the middle class of Ukraine. Earth is a way to make Ukrainians rich. It is the Ukrainians who want to work as farmers and cultivate their own land — with agrotechnical standards, with the experience of processing the land, with the assurance that this land will not become a speculative product — that the Ukrainians are the masters of the land. This law, adopted with profound breaches, actually proposes to change the purpose of the earth at any time, removes state control where it is needed and reinforces it where it is not needed. This law actually allows foreigners to own Ukrainian land without any condition. That's why "European Solidarity" is going to do everything to ensure that the Ukrainian farmer, the Ukrainian peasant, gets support from the state, taking care of his own land, becomes a real master of Ukrainian land, not speculators from all over the world, not giant agroholdings without any restrictions on the state, not those who think of selling land to someone just to fill their corrupt pockets. The state should help Ukrainians to become effective owners of their own land. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Nastavajchenko, Valentina Aleksandrovitch. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u16	Dear friends, why do we propose that these decisions be repealed? Why are we in favour of a referendum? Because there is an alternative. This alternative is that the whole world is moving in a direction that protects every bit of the earth. Every piece of land is a territory. Every piece of land is food security. Every piece of land is the occupation of its people, of its nation. We're proposing a comprehensive development of lease relationships. First. The second is what we offer. There are people who want to sell their land, we are in favour, but the buyer should be a state or local self-government body, a united territorial community. We're creating a real rural land bank in this room, we're charging with state funds from privatization -- that's the source of replenishment, and we're lending local self-government authorities to buy land from those people who want to sell it, and then we're transferring it to a land lease that goes into municipal or state property that is today -- we're renting it to local Ukrainian farmers, to a national farmer to develop a national agriculture. It's national security, it's food security, it's territorial integrity. Friends, it's a huge job because they're going to hand it over to their farmers, and it's about family farms on a scale, it's the way the whole world is going. Friends, busy once. Their employment, not in Poland, is not abroad on wages, but at home, what they do in Poland. Food security – two, territorial integrity – three. And from the rent of the land, every day money drips into the local community for development. From buying and selling, the community and society get nothing. Let's get our heads together and maintain common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u17	The word is given to the National MP Motka Igor Fedorovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u18	Request to hand Anton Polakov over.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u19	Anton Eduardoovich Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u20	Anton Polyakov, Chernigovishte. Dear colleagues, in my mind, the market is transparency, it's freedom, it's competitiveness. What is now happening to our earth and what is going to happen is not the market of the earth. It's a raid that's happening right now, and what's the big deal about the many deputies who are here in this room and who are going to come out of this room with new agroligarchs. So let's tell the truth. After this bill, which was passed last week. It states that the sale of land through electronic auctions will take place. But we realize that most villages don't have the internet, and I don't say that Ukrainian television doesn't exist in most villages. Russian television or Belarusian, for example, is viewed in Montenegrin. A legal person made up of other laws or even foreigners may participate in the trade. So that's the promise you made that you wouldn't sell the land to foreigners, and now they'll be able to take part in these deals? The order of registration of the bidders is attributed to Kabmin’s credentials, and information about the bidders cannot be made public until the end of the trade. Guys, why are these deals then? Just give each other this land for a penny and that's all. Why set up this circus? Discussions with the public have been canceled for sale of parts assigned to the building. Again, it is a violation of all the constitutional rights of our citizens. I'm not going to talk here about how my colleague, who and where they're buried, and what the consequences will be for this bill, but I'm going to ask you to support these clear decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u21	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainians. Mikola Zadrodzny, 162th District, Sumstina. Last week I held quite a number of personal meetings in the rural communities of my district, and I would like to point out that the vast majority of the heads of rural communities, the MPs, called for the signing and implementation of bills 2194 and 2195 as soon as possible. Why do they need this? Because we have introduced land reform as part of decentralization. We give communities, especially rural areas, more opportunities and more powers. I want to give you examples. In the last few months, all the rural communities of my district, namely: Chupakhivska, Cherneczchinska, Kirikowska, Velikopisarovska, Grunska Community, have been attacked by certain spammers. And some disorderly people tried to take away all the land that was being handed over to the communities. Together we managed to stop it. Today, there is an opportunity in the community to manage this land, and there is an opportunity in the communities to receive additional income for their communities and to carry out some of the tasks of community dwellers. I call on all colleagues to reject these decrees and complete land reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Let's go to. Shahov is motivated, and then we go to the vote. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u24	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, you really know my position: I'm against selling the land of the state and filling the state bank of the land. Since everything is now well - watered, only the earth remains. And I'd like to add, please tell me, you're going to decontaminate the land now, sell it. When the children are born, God grant the State to help the girls give birth, not for 25,000 dollars Caesarean — and how do children, the gene pool of our nation, and where will they get this land when they are born? All the land is now laid waste. Who will be responsible for the fact that the Ukrainian will not have his own land, a patch of land where he can work? When I was a child, I worked at a cottage, said to be six hundred, and she fed our family — potatoes, vegetables, fruits, and so forth. During the winter, we could feed ourselves when our parents did not have a job. I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u25	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the sale of or rights to land of state and municipal property (registration No. 2195-P). Please identify and vote. [[10:29:15]] For-79 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[10:29:41]] For-76 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[10:30:04]] For-80 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[10:30:30]] For-76 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole of the draft regulation 2195-P4. Please identify and vote. [[10:30:55.]] For-78 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[10:31:18]] For-76 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[10:31:42]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.05. 2021 on the second reading and the whole project. Sorry, break time, yeah. A statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Soboled? Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u26	Sobolje, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction and the Fatherland party, just like our leader, Julia Timoshenko, have consistently done all these decades since the declaration of independence to ensure that the Stalin times in Ukraine never happen again. That in the 1990s everyone who wants to work the land got this land or a long-term lease with the right to an inheritance, like tens of thousands of farmers that you're forcing to buy this land out at electronic auctions. How millions of our citizens have received areas under gardening, under the gardening that you are now forcing these laws to buy out these areas, their own areas that they are processing. Just as in the 33rd year, the Stalin regime was perfectly clear: you can destroy Ukraine only by destroying the peasants who are processing their own land. And it was the collective that led to the terrible famine and the collapse of Ukraine. Similarly, you are now trying to do your best to ensure that the earth is taken from those who process it, through banking schemes, through land-building schemes, through redemption schemes through foreign institutions, including banking institutions. We won't let that happen. It was in these moments that a meeting of the Constitutional Court opened. Right now, the Central Election Commission has decided to start collecting signatures on a referendum to protect the rights of peasants and all those who process land in their own land. Not those who will buy, but those who will take the land by means of bank dirt schemes, and those who will never work on the earth will be resold. That's why the Fatherland faction and the Fatherland party will do their best to keep the land owned by those who process it. Those who want to sell it have the right to do so. Sell either to the municipalities or to the state. But again this land must be passed on to those who cultivate it. That's why she stood there, and it's a faction of Fatherland. We will do our utmost to protect our people’s right to the earth and to rule the earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u27	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.05. 2021 on the adoption, on second reading and as a whole, of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of international criminal and humanitarian law (registration number 2689-P). The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zabrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u28	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! We have recently adopted an important law of Ukraine regarding the persecution of war criminals. Its essence is fully in line with our common aspirations to bring domestic legislation closer to international humanitarian law. But a mechanical translation into the Ukrainian language of international documents has not always proved to be a positive result. How should a commander feel now, who by his command sends his subjects, including to death? Why, in spite of the principle of individual responsibility, which is anchored, by the way, in our Constitution, should the commander be responsible for the actions of subordinates under the "knowing or knowing" scheme? How should the Commander - in - Command of the Armed Forces of Ukraine now feel about the hundreds of thousands of subordinates? Just wait and pray that none of them will prove to be a rapist or a marauder. We are talking about the application of international law, but we will remember that you and I have made changes to domestic law. Reasonable arguments, which are entirely relevant in the parliamentary debate, cannot always be found in the city and district courts, in the same court that is now releasing a deserter who left the battlefield and his unit with a fine of 512 dollars. The need to improve the law, its destructive power is now felt by both the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The President's office is also in the right position. As we know, the one who does nothing is not the only one who does nothing. We still have time and a procedural opportunity to reform the law. As you and I have decided the fate of the hundreds of thousands of soldiers and officers of our army and fleet, the fighters of volunteer formations, all of them, thanks to whom we are now working peacefully, we will expect, in favour of Ukraine. Please listen to professional military and law enforcement personnel and support the decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u29	The word is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Kalchenk Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u30	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of international criminal and humanitarian law (registration 2689), the registration number of the draft Decree 2689-P, introduced by the People's Deputies of Zabrodski, Fedina and Pavelenko. The draft regulation proposes that the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law be annulled because, according to the authors of the draft regulation, the decision was adopted by the authors, in violation of the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules. So, in summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the 2689-P bill and recommends that Parliament be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u31	Please sign up: two for. Needed to Be Discussed? Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. Heroceno? Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, after Michael Zabrodsky, I just have to repeat the position of our faction. Should the responsibility for the war crimes of the aggressor country be increased? Yes. Every war criminal has to be held accountable in Ukrainian and international courts, and in fact, for this there is little criminal right, it has to be defined as international law as war crimes. At the same time, a bill that has the exact right nature and the right name, unfortunately, is something that can harm the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And we sincerely tried to work on the second reading when we pointed to a few very important details that would first strike at power. I'd like you to hear that today, in the European Court of Human Rights, there are a lot of lawsuits against Ukraine that even from the Russian Federation-occupied territories, citizens who are trying to get to Ukraine, not the Russian Federation, to take responsibility for, for example, property that was affected by an armed conflict that was solved by the Russian Federation. Similarly, the norm regarding the return to previous years is very dangerous. Friends, we fully support the fact that all war criminals who raped, tortured, killed Ukrainian military and civilian populations are to be held accountable. But when you are legally responsible today for, for example, the destruction of property on the Ukrainian army, you may have an extremely dangerous precedent. So once again, let's split up the war crimes, the war criminals to be held accountable by the Russian Federation, the aggressor country, the fighters who are completely under the control of the Kremlin, and the Ukrainian army that protects the country that actually did everything from the 14th to the 21st year to preserve our territories and our citizens. So we suggest that we support this important decision today, Mr. Zabrodsky, to work out a bill that the police are awaiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u33	Radina Anastasia Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Unfortunately, I cannot support this decision, and I urge you not to support it, colleagues. For 7 years, for 7 years, Ukrainian defenders documented the most inhumane torture and abuse of prisoners of war against the civilian population. For seven years they waited for this law. For 7 years, he was awaited by honest prosecutors who said that they simply did not have the capacity to qualify normally and to bring to justice all those responsible for these inhumane tortures. We must now give this law a road to life to show, including to our people in uncontrollable territories, that we care about them, that they will be protected by law, and that there will be responsibility for all the abuses they have suffered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u35	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we voted in favour of this bill, which deals with the ruling, against it. Why not? Because all the speeches I hear today, they don't fully fit reality. Why? This law goes through, turn your attention, the ratification of the Rome Statute. The Rome Statute or the ratification of 100 percent, then the state becomes a party to the process, if it is partially ratified, I mention the speech of the head of the committee when he shouted on emotion and showed some of the papers recommended to him from the UN. Notice, 7 years of war, questions open? It's open. Draw to Responsibility? They're pulling. Where are the criminal conducts that the former Attorney General, a former Military Prosecutor, for seven years? Where are they? You didn't get to The Hague? What, they were lying then? So let's do the mutual beast who represents Ukraine in The Hague, what are the conducts that are, who are missing and who are lying. Now, I think about what reforms are still missing. You can write and regulate legislation to whom you like. But from practical experience, understand this correctly, if you draw it on TV and you get it on the radio, then practical experience shows the result of zeros and things like they didn't show up in The Hague in seven years, and they won't. But I'm asking you to pay attention to the people's deputies and observe the time, six months from now, for the Supreme Council to ask, where is the matter with the new law, then it will be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 2689-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[10:46:31]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The next question of the agenda is ratification, I suggest no discussion. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on the continuation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Cooperation in Science and Technology (register No. 0100). Please support and vote. [[10:47:16]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on an incident involving the forced landing of Ryanair in Minsk (registration number 5597). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:47:52]] For 219 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u38	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting on June 2, 2021, the Committee discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the incident of the forced landing of Ryanair in Minsk by the Ukrainian National Deputies. In view of the need to respond to existing challenges and threats to international security, which certainly affects Ukraine’s national security, the Committee proposes to consider and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the decision is intended to approve a statement condemning the forced landing of a passenger aircraft and the actions of the Belarusian authorities that put passengers and crew at risk. These actions violate the International Civil Aviation Rules and threaten international security, including the safety of air traffic. The approval of the declaration will be a powerful expression of solidarity with partner states, especially the member states of the European Union and the United States, and support the positions of the world community on the need for immediate investigation by the International Civil Aviation Organization of this unacceptable act, with appropriate consequences for those who have done so. So, dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u39	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u40	Yes, Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I, of course, could speak from this rostrum right now about (in paws) "constructed power" as well as with other bills, when the main thing is to pass a bad law and replace the opposition bill with the unpopular names of your bill. I could say that the initiators of our statement, our address was 26 national MPs, including the majority, for which I thank you. I could say that the determination and the appeal that we're looking at right now is 50 percent of the text that we're proposing. But what I want to say is that the devil is always in detail. And these changes to the determination, before that statement, have made it completely worthless, toothless and completely indistinguishable. I want to say that this statement is a quintension of foreign policy in power. It is that today's authorities demand that Western partners help them, receive them to the EU, receive them to NATO, give credits, ask about something in Biden, blame Merkel for something, and not do anything on its own. She can't even call international crime a crime. It cannot call State terrorism State terrorism, it cannot turn to international institutions to demand investigation and bring the guilty to justice. My colleagues, I remind you, we live in a parliamentary-presidential republic. We don't have to be a division of the O.P.U., we don't have to be a department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let us finally take a political stand and show our support for the people of Belarus and show, turn to other international colleagues and recognize international terrorists as international terrorists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u42	Sussun Inna Romanovna Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u43	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. We often claim and speak of ourselves as regional leaders in the international arena. Are we really like that? Regional leaders in what, and with whom? We do not pull or react to events in the Republic of Moldova, either in Georgia or in Belarus. If you read clearly what happened between Sunday and Monday in the news, especially in Belarusian, you will not see the reaction of the Ukrainian State. You know, and even a statement, a little statement by the MMS spokesman, was not enough to hear what the regional leader of Eastern Europe will say and replace or support the Belarusian people we've been talking about since August of last year. And such a statement, which is made today in the Hall, is absolutely not conducive to this leadership. It's wrong, it's incorrect, it's not friendly to other factions -- to register a statement at night that's actually going to sink in hundreds of other statements and that doesn't carry anything at all. Of course, she's putting all of us on a roll, because we're going to vote for this application. At least it's something from the Ukrainian Parliament and, as always, it's too late. But I have another question. And what we're doing today, knowing that the Russian Federation is actually absorbing the Republic of Belarus, and actually we have a border that is bordering and has more than a thousand kilometers, is actually becoming another state and will be ready to commit aggression. I'll remind you, more than a thousand kilometers. What are we doing with them? What do we do with the political refugees? Do we give citizenship to the Belarusians who have been with us since 2014? No, it's not. Do you know that the State Migration Service is worse off than the State Department? Therefore, Poland and Lithuania are in fact leaders and show how to behave. I am sorry that such a statement is accepted today. I would like us to support the Belarusian people with much greater and practical steps, and especially in a strong statement from the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u44	The word is given to the National MP, Billozore Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust". Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u45	We Ukrainians understand very well the price of freedom, the price of independence, the price of democracy. Our parents and your grandparents paid the most expensive for this. For this, our country's territorial integrity is now being repaid for the most precious of all – our lives and our modern heroes, who are mourned and who are proud of our whole country from Carpathian, Frankish, Lvivščina to Luhanščina. And today the Belarusians may have the same difficult path ahead -- the path to their democracy. And they, like us, need international support in this fight against their dictatorial regime. That is why we today support the democratic choice of our neighbours of the Belarusians and condemn the dictatorial regime of the self-declared President. The regime that destroys democracy, the regime that has allowed itself international air piracy, condemns a regime that violates human rights. So I urge all of us in the hall to support this determination, to support the Belarusians in their free will, and thus to reduce the ability of the aggressor to dissolve his scales, his armies for even more miles on the borders around our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u46	Comer Natalia Igorovna. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u47	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u48	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. 2014: The plane with President Evo Morales was forced to land in Vienna. 2016: "Belavia" took off from "Julian", Kiev, flew to the border from Belarus, turned around, planted, removed from the plane of Armen Martirosian, who did not like the "parents". How does this differ from what happened in Belarus? On May 31st, literally this year, Ryanair, who was flying from Dublin to Kraków, was planted in Berlin. No one covers the space over Germany, no parliament raises its ears. I want to emphasize once again, the example of Ukraine with Martirosian. Belarus did not close any air with Ukraine, she said in a diplomatic way a note. What do we do today: Without waiting for the investigation of ICAO, do we want to make things difficult with Belarus today? 4.2 billion dollars -- circulation, 50 percent of the supply of oil products from Belarus -- the minefield was provided to us, the non-recognition of Crimea annexation, the loyal situation to Ukraine in the Donbas conflict. 295 companies with Ukrainian investments in Belarus, 117 of which are joint ventures and 178 per cent with Ukrainian capital. What are we doing? You got into a fight with everyone. The Ukrainians now flew 7,000 dollars to Russia through Minsk. And now they're flying 30,000 dollars through Warsaw and other countries. We need to think about the national interests of Ukraine, not the incomprehensible enticing of what provocations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u50	My ass. Then we go to the vote. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u51	Dear friends, I urge you to support this decision clearly. At the same time, I want to remind all my colleagues that Roman Protasewicz is my brother. This is the man who was on the front. How closely she interacted with the Azov battalion, which worked there as a photographer and was wounded directly on the front during the fighting. I think we should remember that this is the person who left with his mission in 14-15 to support the Ukrainian state. At the same time, I want to say that the President should not stop. We have Belarusian oligarchs making money in Ukraine. We have an uncovered border with the Republic of Belarus north. We have many other problems. In particular, Belarusian volunteers, literally at night, are not allowed into Ukraine from the territory of Poland for intended reasons. There's a lot of problems. Let's keep this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u52	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u53	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this project. Although we understand very well that it could have been written much more clearly because we have all come across a direct manifestation of an act of State terrorism. When a journalist, a blogger, a young boy who fights for free Belarus, for free Belarus from totalitarianism, he sets up a passenger plane, and he's arrested and tortured in the brothels of the Belarusian Lukashenko regime. And, of course, I would like to say that when there are voices about what we said, look, we push Lukashenko closer to Putin, it's not us pushing and not the world pushing away, it's a long time ago in Putin's lap. Because in order to remain in power, he's willing to kill, destroy, shoot his own citizens. He gives neither free choice nor freedom of speech nor freedom of thought. That is why we must be primarily in solidarity with the people of Belarus, not with the Lukashenko regime. We have to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u54	I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for an incident involving the forced landing of Ryanair in Minsk (Registration No. 5597) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:01:58]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the law on introduction. The procedure is Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to make some changes in the schedule for the consideration of draft laws at today's session, because we have 5155, the next draft of the law, which is exactly after, to be considered after the Basic Law 5153. It's very important. If you can, do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u56	Nina Petrovna, really, he's standing a little further, but I'm sure we'll get to him and we'll look at him today. I'll make your offer, but then the hall will be determined if you don't mind. I'm betting on the vote on Nina Petrovna's proposal. Please vote. [[11:03:10]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending article 16 of the Law on currency and monetary transactions in relation to the amendment to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5155). Dear colleagues, will someone insist on the papers? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 16 of the Law on Monetary and Monetary Transactions in relation to the amendment to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Promotion of Childhood and on the Promotion of Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5155). Please support and vote. [[11:04:24]] For 255 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Income Taxes in the form of payment for the production and/or distribution of advertising and improvement of tax-added tax on non-resident electronic services to natural persons (registration No. 4184). It's a second reading. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Who's going to insist on editing? Could you give me a list, please? Are you going to be in all your classes? 12 revisions, Zablocky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill introduces a VAT rate of 20 percent for all online services purchased from non-residents. At the same time, I cannot agree with certain tax facilities. For example, it is suggested that 20 percent of online books and magazines be taxed at VAT rates. Simply put, books purchased on the Amazon online, on the kindle, or any subscription of foreign magazines will be increased by 20 percent. I think it is wrong to restrict our citizens’ access to books, to education, and not to make them more expensive. This is not some substantial coming to the state budget. In fact, no country in Europe has a 20 - percent rate per amazon. Basically, if you go to the Amazon and look at VAT rates, you'll see that they're either zero or substantially smaller. In Ukraine, VAT rates on books are in place and online are 0 percent, and they don't need to be introduced either. I'd like to take this into account so that you don't tax online books and magazines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u58	I'll bet you 12 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:50]] For-182 The decision is not taken. 26 Zablotsky’s version. 26th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to an even greater principle of reform. This law also introduces VAT on online education. So those courses that are going to be bought online for the purpose of learning, they're also going to be increased by 20 percent. In Ukraine, once again, the VAT rate that works for education is zero. And that's right, and that's right. The bill introduces a complex system on which some unofficial forms of education or official forms of education will be taxed to determine on which online courses there will be no VAT on which there will be no VAT. I think it's fundamentally wrong. So I ask you, colleagues, to support this amendment by introducing a VAT rate of 20 percent on online education. I think I understand why that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u60	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, that's not true, that's not true. We're introducing an additional standard in the bill, please pay attention, 197.1.32, where we exempt all educational services from taxation, both those provided electronically in Ukraine and those provided abroad. But these educational services are defined by a list of specialities and qualifications that are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here from design to anything, to finance, to mathematics, it's practical. But the courses, how to set up a runner-up, are probably not going to get there. No manipulation, we're formally limiting it. Please, there's no problem. We solved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u62	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 26 of the Zamlocksky People's Deputies. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:02]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, 9th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, you just didn't hear what Mr. Zablocksky said and heard the head of the committee who told the lie. We discussed educational services on the committee. In fact, there are no higher educational institutions in Ukraine that do not match the title of a specialty or training course for those in Ukraine. Please tell me, are they supposed to fit under us? It is your children who will learn. And this is an online learning that has different forms: with a teacher, without a teacher. You just didn't support what all society needs in the future, that's your future. So I'm asking you to support the amendment and think, now we're looking at the key amendments -- the revisions of the future, because this is actually the first time in our country. In other countries, such systems exist: taxation of the Internet of such services. But each country defines a clear list for itself, since it can be overridden.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u64	I'm betting on the vote number nine of the South. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:10:43]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line, Jujanina, 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, I will not insist on any amendment. After 25 it's going to be 75th. Dear colleagues, please look again at the 25 amendments: educational services. As we looked at the committee, we wrote out a more faithful chairman of the committee who wrote a new paper, and he thinks it will work exactly as he sees it. Even on the committee, all members of the committee have differing opinions, and we do not have such definitions. Because now, at 20th Amendment, Mr. Gethmans proposed education services: providing remote learning services on the Internet that do not require participation, including access to virtual classes, educational resources and so on. All of this will be taxed, so the committee has now proposed. I'm offering educational services to exclude tax at all. Please support the 25th amendment, this is our last chance to exclude educational services from taxation and travel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u66	I'm betting on the vote number 25. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:22]] For-166 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. It's an emergency, isn't it, Nina Petrovna, 75th? Seventy-five.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, to be sure, in the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance, there is such a link that the cost of these services, the volume of these services, is completely incomprehensible, cannot be calculated. But what they're now trying to rule out of the current Tax Code, the rule that was averting the abuse of advertising services, the rule that would cause the government budget to lose 2.2 billion dollars, now the young boys have decided that it's no time. That is, advertising services purchased outside Ukraine will optimize income tax, and this is directly stated in the Ministry of Finance's conclusion. But the revenue that is offered to take from Internet services is completely unclear whether we will continue to have Google and all the other areas that we talked to you about at the first reading. Therefore, I ask that you leave this standard, even with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u68	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, what is it? In 1997, a tax was imposed on the repatriation of advertising services. I mean, if I provide advertising services and it's provided abroad, that's 20 percent of the tax. Legal services are not maintained, advisory services are not maintained, and only this archaism is left — advertising services that hinder the development of the advertising market and cast them into the shadows. Because they don't work as entrepreneurs, they're accounted for by cards, they're accounted for as individuals, and there's actually no market for that. We've been approached by a lot of associations working in the IT sphere to clear up this archaism. We agree that he needs to be cleaned up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u70	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 75 amendments to the national MP of South Nina Petrovna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:55]] For 139
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u71	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Nina Petrovna, all right? Which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u72	160 revisions. Dear colleagues, you've just removed the primary safety net for advertising abuse. And even the head of the committee doesn't understand that it's not legal services, it's services that are very easy to run through acts of work without confirmation. Shame! If you don't understand, don't pick up or start a system that exists. About 160 revisions. Once again, the Ministry of Digital Transformation, which was supposed to protect those hard technical rules and requirements, did not support the fact that this program was launched not just on January 1, but the tax system, not just on January 1, 2022, but the next quarter of the industrialization of the software for VAT electronic services for non-residents. This is a necessary condition for the resource to be protected so that there is no manual intervention, so that foreigners can trust us that the software meets all the technical requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u73	I'm betting on the 160th edition of the jujanina vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:33]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Nina Petrovna, are you all right? Next line, Kovalov, 73rd. Then we go to the vote. Right? 20 more to confirm. 73rd, Kovalov. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor, for giving my word. To be honest, this bill is a very revolutionary bill that will add billions of dollars to the government budget. And that the claim that educational services or advertising services are going to do is a lie, because look at how many advertising services we're developing. And I think that the transnational corporations that make billions of dollars in Ukraine still have to pay taxes in Ukraine. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill, which will really enable us to increase our tax base and increase our revenue to the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u75	I'm betting on the vote number 73 of the National MP. Don't you need to put it on? I don't vote. Okay. 20 lashes. It's counted. Geo Leros. Geo Bagratovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u76	I have a question for the committee head. Why do you hate Mr. Zelensky so much that he says that education should be free? Why tax 20% of online education? We need to make it as accessible as possible. So I'm going to the hall, don't support this amendment to make online education cost 20 percent more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u77	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u78	Geo Bagratovich, my man, read the law. Well, read the law. Well, please look at 93 amendments, where we're getting these services out of taxation, we're getting them out for both residents and non-residents, for everyone. Do you understand? Well, let's be critical of the subject, I'm asking you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u79	Let's go. I'm betting on the vote number 20. She was counted by the committee. Edit Getmantseva. Please support and vote. It's on confirmation. [[11:19:35]] For 248 Decision taken. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Cancellation of Non-resident Income Taxation in the form of payment for the production and/or distribution of advertising and improving the order of taxation by the added cost of transactions for the provision of non-resident electronic services to natural persons (registration No. 4184). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:20:28]] For 283 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Law on Space Activities on the determination of status and distribution of powers between central executive authorities in the field of space activities (registration No. 5017). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:21:07]] For the 250. Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend. Needed Discussion? Can we vote without it? No, I don't. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of proposals by the Committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the Law on Space Activities on the Determination of the Status and Distribution of Powers between Central Authorities in the Field of Space Activities (No. 5017). Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was just asking a question. [[11:21:56]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, when I ask questions, don't be distracted. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of external advertising (registration number 5094). Needed Discussion? Can we vote? Did you hear them all? Did you see them all? I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I say it now? Discussing? Just you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then, please, I would like to put to the vote the proposal to address this issue under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:23:05]] For 256 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you know, one of your colleagues who likes speed has recently seen it. He says we don't know each other very much. So I want to introduce myself again. I, Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk. Thank you very much. As far as the bill is concerned. You know, we actually have enough advertising regulation, but unfortunately, we didn't get a hand in the field of external advertising. And we've done a lot of trying in the past, along with the professional associations, with the members of the various factions, to work on the basic law. Thank God that this vocation, thanks to the profiling committee, was able to do so. And I thank all the authors who have joined from different factions and groups in this law. You know, the most basic thing that I wanted to say is that it's a professional basic law that contains all the norms and requirements for external advertising. It clearly sets out all the requirements for the issuance of external advertising permits. We go through transparency and openness because all the information about owners, about advertisers, will be posted on a special site. Each billboard gets a special QR code, where you can know who places it, how much it costs, and so on. In the historical parts of the city, there should no longer be an increase in advertising structures. For the first time, we're going to be able to fix the whole system of closing the raw, opaque ads. And I very much hope that our cities, our district centers, will reduce the number of advertising structures by 50 percent. I think this will only lead to the effectiveness of advertising. And I thank everyone who's joined in again. I hope this is just the first step towards the European integration of our country. Thanks again to the profile committee. Please support this bill very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u81	Thank you, Olena Constantine. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Paul Mikolayovich Suško, please. Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u82	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In Ukraine, there was finally a chance to bring order to the market for external advertising. We suggest that it be arranged so that it does not only aesthetically fit into urban and urban landscapes but also works for people. When people look at the billboards, at the sielites, they have to understand that they're not just offered goods or services, but they have to work and work for the community. People need to know that advertisers have paid all their taxes, and for their money in their city or village, schools are being repaired, kindergartens are being built, parks and squares are being rebuilt. They should understand that advertising is also beneficial to them. The changes that we're proposing will first allow for increased budgeting. We estimate that they will grow up almost twice. Just imagine how much you can do at this cost. And secondly, now it's going to be possible to control clearly what the advertising costs are referring to. This will be easy to verify. In addition, we're going to make public electronic media, commercial media registers. This is a very important innovation: every advertising medium will be tagged with a QR code that any person will be able to do on their own or via smartphone to check whether there is a legitimate advertising near their home, on their way to work or at rest. The procedures laid down in the bill will reduce corruption. And for the second reading, we will introduce changes and corrections to social advertising, and it will also work to increase tolerance for people with disabilities. So I suggest you accept this bill. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given by Speedy Annie Constantine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u85	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, welcome! It seems like we've moved back to anxiety mode. With regard to a number of bills today. Our parliamentary group draws the attention of the presiding officers at the plenary session that it is not necessary to continue this pace of work, because it is at the expense of the quality of the bill. As far as the bill is concerned, we will support it. We think it's a long time ago to put order in the chaos of outside advertising. Especially with regard to the placement of advertisements in a number of objects, bicycle tracks, the visual sound system of metropolises, stations, and so forth, which harms both human health and human security, and so forth. Of course we are. But with that, we have some observations. In particular, as regards the principle, the introduction of the principle of silent consent when granting permits for the placement of external advertising. For example, an entity is considered to have acquired the right to set up external advertising on the last day of the application’s consideration. On the one hand, such a norm, well, let's say, will be positively evaluated, because it prevents unwarranted delays in the delivery, issuance of permits and red tape, but on the other hand, it causes a number of problems. It is not clear how the subject of farming should further prove the legality of the placement of external advertising and so forth. In addition, this bill proposes to place a QR code on every design that can verify the validity of a QR code in an electronic register. We don't understand how this QR code rule will work if we apply the principle of this silent agreement. So we suggest that we accept, insist only on the first reading and ask, our MPs ask not to shorten the amendment when they consider the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u87	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u88	Please pass the word Mikiti Ruslanovich Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u89	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I went out to this rostrum because we went into a discussion just to thank you. Thanks to Olena Constantine Kondratuk, who, with colleagues in the Supreme Council on the eighth call, started working on this very important bill, which our industry and our cities and towns and villages and our roads were waiting for more than 10 years. So I thank all colleagues who have worked on this law in the past. I thank my colleagues on the committee: Paul Mikolaiovich Suško and the other colleagues who worked on this law in this vocation. I thank all the factions, and these are all the factions that have been signed under this law. Yes, I agree with Taras Ivanovich Batenko that there is some work to be done. And of course, we will be grateful for all the constructive adjustments. I hope, colleagues, for your support. This law is mature, it will actually help and make Ukraine better just externally, and bring investment here, and bring new technologies here, and make money to many of the average Ukrainians who work in this industry, and the rest of us get quality modern advertising services. I urge you to vote in favour of this law. I invite all interested parties once again to join in the introduction of constructive rights to this law. And I will be very grateful to all of you for your support. And once again, thank you to the colleagues who worked on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u91	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u92	Thank you. Please give the floor to the distinguished national deputy of Ukraine, Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u93	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life" against that chaos in the outside advertising that is today. The Opposition Platform for Life faction against the fact that uncontrollable external advertising destroys the beauty and wealth of our national cultural heritage. We are opposed to the fact that outdoor advertising actually poses a threat to the life and health of our citizens. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill in the first reading. The question of order and order in the placement of external advertising in the country was long overdue. Not only did this calling work, but the basis of this law was prepared in the preceding calling. Unfortunately, Parliament had not been able to adopt the bill before it was convened. So what was enough political will to put into the agenda was to start a review of the bill, and I hope that today on the first reading it would be approved. And the inadequacies, the inaccuracies, and some of the negative moments that are still in the bill, we will be able to correct together in preparation for the second reading. In any case, the Humanities and Information Policy Committee will do its utmost to do so, and our Opposition Platform for Life faction will do its utmost to make it a system-based bill that would benefit the country and, on the other hand, allow for the development of those who work in this market. That is why we support the first reading and call on Parliament to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u95	Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u96	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u97	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u98	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We are now considering an extremely important bill, and I would like to thank the drafters of this bill, my colleagues in "Fatherland" Vice-speaker Oleni Kondratuk, Alexander Rafkatovich Abdullin, for actually introducing a completely complex bill that will have a positive impact on the regulation of advertising. Advertising was always an area where there were significant corrupting factors. And the fact that this bill introduces, among other things, an open electronic information database of places where advertising is located will significantly reduce corruption risks in this area. And the addition of the Advertising Act to the new requirements will have a positive impact on road safety. We need to move away from the practice where Ukraine, our Ukrainian cities, are gradually transformed into areas that are completely flooded with boards where we can't go properly. This has a negative impact on road safety, it distracts drivers, it does not allow for the normal appearance of Ukrainian cities and historic buildings that are in Ukrainian cities. So I think this bill really solves these issues systematically. I want to thank the authors again. And the "Fatherland" faction will fully support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u99	Oleg Anatolovich Makarov, after that – Princely, after that – Shahov and we vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u100	As a member of Kyivrada, I had to work on reforming the outside advertising in Kiev. With the cooperation of local authorities and business, this reform has been successfully implemented. As a result, business in Kiev received clear, transparent anti-corruption rules of the game, and the city became a modern European street structure and was reduced by almost 70 percent. As a lawyer, it became clear to me that legislation that regulates foreign advertising in Ukraine needed to be changed. Many of Kiev’s legislative approaches have been incorporated into the bill, including street patterns, advertising classifications, and much more. I am convinced that the legal commissions available to us in the law will be able to overcome them. I propose to support this bill and give clear business rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u101	Chess. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u102	"European Solidarity" will support the project in the first reading, but we pay immediate attention to the amendments that we're going to make to the second. First of all, we're against having advertising on cultural heritage objects of local importance without any control. The law allows that. We're against advertising in historical places without organs that control it properly, as it is now. Cities like Lviv will generally be able to hang the entire center with advertising. And of course, the law prohibits advertising on cultural monuments of national significance, allowing it to be carved, constructed. So where it's about protecting the cultural heritage, "European solidarity" is going to apply, and the law is now being supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u103	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u104	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the "Trust" Group will support this bill, they finally heard us. We need to set up a situation and conduct an audit of all the advertising shields, like insurance, after those post-election ads, and no one's watching them. Where are the social ads on these shields? Who's going to pay the budget for putting these scary shells in, and no one's answering? We want to live in Europe, and we live in the fifth. Please go all the way to Europe. Why don't you just open the Internet, Google, like there's an ad that's in charge of it. There is a clean vertical to be held accountable for today. Thank you. We will vote and support this bill. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u105	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of legislation in the field of external advertising (registration No. 5094). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:40:46]] For 334 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of the national qualification system (registrations 4147, 4147-1). It is suggested that we consider this issue in a nutshell. After that, okay. I'll give it a rest after that. Consider this question by a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:41:27]] For 249 Decision taken. The people of Ukraine, Koval Olga Volodymyrna, are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Staff development and staff development are extremely relevant to the domestic labour market. In Ukraine, we now have a very large number of people who have certain skills and skills, but for some reason they cannot work. Bill 4147 is proposing changes that will allow individuals to assign partial qualifications. This will ensure a better implementation of them in the labour market, allowing them to acquire appropriate skills and skills, and give them a better position. Moreover, the bill proposes that the National Qualifications Agency establish a list of jobs that do not require certain qualifications. It is also suggested that a register of types of occupations and qualifications be established. The creation of this register will provide the labour market and investors with effective tools for introducing new jobs into the labour market. The bill also proposes to establish the rule of professional standard over qualifications. What will that do? This will primarily help to address the problems faced by employers when they increase their skills and give them a higher level of discharge. Colleagues, the bill was supported by a committee of profile. He has a number of suggestions and comments, but all organizations support him. Colleagues, please support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u107	The word is given to the author of an alternative bill to the Ukrainian national MP Grishny Yulia Mikolayivni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u108	Comrades, good day to you all! I want to draw your attention to one fundamental moment. What we've come up with is a debate on the Committee on Social Policy, which is that my bill, which, by the way, was signed by 27 people's deputies of almost all factions, thinks it's particularly important for our country to adopt a separate National Qualifications Act. That's how all Europe works, that's how the whole world works, and that's how it should be in our country if we want the education system and the practical spheres in us to develop. And in short, what else do we have to do with these bills? It is very important in this area to build a new terminology, and directly in the alternative bill, such important terms for this bill are included, and for the whole sphere, it is a profession and a work function. And the second. Our bill provides that a register of professions will contain information about professions that will not need an additional register with a list of jobs that do not require the presence of a person with full or partial qualifications. This will simplify, greatly simplify, the administration of the register of occupations and avoid the formation of additional costs and methods. And of course, we do not support lobbying standards that presuppose a preference for individual subjects in the market. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support an alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to Galina Mikolayivna Trelyakowi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! Both bills are designed to stimulate the development of a national qualification system. This is a second attempt by parliament to address this issue in order for Ukrainians to have partial qualifications and additional qualifications that will not require individual education, and the assignment of such qualifications will take place in a structure already established in Ukraine called the National Qualification Agency. In fact, both bills touch on the same articles of the Labour Code, Ukraine’s pay laws, education, and employment laws. I will not evaluate in detail, because the authors of this bill have done so, the committee has considered in detail, including the conclusion of the budget committee that they have communicated with Minfin. But what I'm saying is that the Ministry of Economic Development says that 4147 and 4147-1 need work. At the same time, the committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 4147 and reject Law 4147-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please write down: two in, two against the MP factions and groups. Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u113	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u114	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, when we were a child, we were taught why: study, study, and learn again. That's why we're going to support this bill. The trust MP is in. We need to give new jobs, teach people, even older people, use a computer, not just on the phone that nokia is still on at grandma or grandpa's today, to spend every village on the Internet. We're the best state of programmers. We have to have a breakthrough revolutionary economy today, filling Ukraine's budget, developing right through the know-how that is in the world. And we are living in the Stone Age today. If you do not want government mines to work, please hand them over to the people who can lift them from their knees. Or train miners in other professions and influence the economy of the state. You see, 70,000 doctors took a nap from the country. Why? Because there's no normal wage. That's how it's supposed to teach people to make $5,000, how they're going to make money today, how they're going to go to Dubai, to Egypt, to Asia, to Japan, to China. In that case, the bill must be supported. Please support, opposition, and a great deal of unity. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u115	Marikovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u116	Please pass the word Koval Olga Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u117	Kowal?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u118	Koval Olga Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u119	Koval Olga Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u120	Colleagues, none of us deny that our qualifications system needs to be changed. Now the labor market needs rapid, dynamic changes. It's just this bill that proposes to speed up the assignment of qualifications to individuals, which is to say partial qualifications. We have now faced difficult circumstances in connection with our country’s coronation, and many people have lost their jobs. Let us help them by having these skills, skills, knowledge, employment, and decent wages. What it says is that there are certain lobbyist norms, colleagues, personally me and the committee that supported the bill have not seen any lobbyism, because it is simply not there. Colleagues, please support the bill and give people the right to work if they have skills and skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u121	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u122	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, People's Deputies! The state actually needs a real National Qualifications Act, and I agree with the author of an alternative bill. This is exactly the kind of bill that we're looking at, that's the kind of bill that we're looking at before, before we're going to register the basic and alternative bills that we're currently looking at. The authors were Julia Timoshenko and almost the whole faction of Fatherland. We think it's our bill that's valid. either by surprise or by surprise, the committee or the sessional room is dealing with the qualifications of today. It is clearly necessary for the State to regulate and allow, at times, even partially to qualify for a profession that can now be divided into three separate destructions. Because of this, my dear fellows, we believe that the Fatherland faction has decided not to vote on either the primary or the alternative. And we're going to apply for second reading if we vote, because we have a clear position. And once again, I appeal to the Presidium to follow the Rules and register those bills and put them into the session room, which are registered in the orderly room. And the "Fatherland" team, the draft National Qualifications System Act, registered on 16.07.2020 at number 3859. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u123	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u124	Please give Stepan Kubi the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u125	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, I would like to say that the faction "European Solidarity" will support Bill 4147. The first is that the National Qualifications Agency is an independent evaluation of professional qualifications. The other one. The National Agency is currently implementing state policy. Third. This law preserves the independence and collegiality of employers, trade unions, and central authorities. This is harmonisation with the European system of qualifications, standards, article 432 of the European Union Agreement. Four. The introduction of a register of occupations as one of the tasks of the National Agency is a European way of defining a task in the field of qualifications. Fifth. It is important to organize the work of the sectoral councils for the development of professional standards, which are also directed, in this bill. At the same time, what I'm saying is that input is only going to be because you agree with employers or because of their initiatives. And when you look at the number of jobs today, I want to say, colleagues, three very important comparative figures. The first thing that's happening today in the classification of France is 500 jobs, we're saying in Germany is 2,000 200, and when we're looking at more than 9,000. This presents the challenge that the bill solves. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Polakov, after that, let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, Mr. Tsimbaluk of Fatherland was right. Because we too, our faction, the "For the Future" MP group, passed Bill Irina Konstankevich 3859 on the national qualification system. But we have what we have. From the proposed bills, we have examined and supported the bill of our colleague Grishna Yulia 4147-1. But this bill has a number of comments from the education community, so we urge you not to shorten the deadline. And in general, we suggest that we not only consider these issues, but also the question of closing schools, the question of raising wages for teachers. The issue of lack of personnel in schools is that soon there will be no one to work there. These are also important questions to be raised in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u129	Let's go to the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of the national qualification system (registration number 4147). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:56:55]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Gorbenko Ruslan Aleksandrovich, from procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u130	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, please report to the TSK on fires in Lugansk (No. 5588) above in order of the day and vote for recess without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, there is an offer now without discussion to vote on the draft Ordinance on the report of the Temporary Investigation Commission (5588). Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Resolution on the report of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the causes of the outbreak in 2020 of large-scale fires in the Lugansk region and the actions/inaction of the Lugansk District Administration of the State Service of Ukraine from emergencies and the Lugansk District Administration, the Lugansk Regional Military and Civil Administration, on the timely response to the occurrence and non-admissibility of extraordinary events (registration No. 5588). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:25]] For 319 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, back to our work. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and other laws to improve the public procurement system. Dear colleagues. Puziczuk, are you insisting? Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u133	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Presidium, the Honorable Citizens, the Public Procurement Act, is designed to protect your expenses, the costs of taxpayers from the state budget of utilities. What are they trying to do with this bill today? They try to deprive you of the opportunity to defend your rights. If you're referring to the Antimonopoly Committee and you want to press charges, you, the distinguished entrepreneurs, today's majority start calling you "trails." And in fact, you're entrepreneurs, you're a business, which is why our state exists today, and you stand for your rights. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support my amendment aimed at protecting Ukrainian entrepreneurs and protecting competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u134	No, it's not. I'm betting on the vote number one of the Puzichuk People's Deputies. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:32:21]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 4th Amendment, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u135	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Respectful citizens, respected entrepreneurs, note how vulnerable you are today and how much the majority cares only for the interests of certain companies. This bill is beginning to create unequal competitive conditions and will not give you the opportunity to properly protect your conditions. You know, maybe you do, and I have a question: is there an appendix to this bill with companies that have to win tenders and in what areas? Why are you deprived of the opportunity to defend your interests? It's definitely not the Law on the Protection of State Funds and it's not the Law on Public Procurement. That bill, which was drafted in previous vocations, that really set it straight, is being tried to eliminate it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u136	I'll bet you vote number four. Please identify and vote. [[12:33:50]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next line number 5, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u137	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you. The project is proposed to complement the glossary of the Public Procurement Act with the definition of "an administrator of the electronic system." But, dear colleagues, this term is not used in any article of the law. Perhaps the authors wrote about administrators who would manually administer this system and determine who would be the winner, who would not be the winner? If this is a mistake, why are you doing it? You're again trying to run a new set of schemes that will harm the development of Ukrainian entrepreneurship. I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u138	I'm betting on the 5th vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:01]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Besides Puziczuk, will anyone else insist on editing? Gunman, Coltunovich. At Coltunovich's confirmation. So Puziczuk, Pusherenko, and for confirmation, right? Labazuk. Frolow. Puziczuk, 8th row.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u139	Dear citizens, Andrey Puziyczuk, Fatherskin faction, Zitomirščina. You know, unfortunately, the Supreme Council has already begun to turn or continue to become a service institution. Now they're doing such a distorted legislation that it's hard to even estimate the amount of work you're going to have to do in the next Parliament in order to correct all of the things you're doing today. Say, explain why you're distorting the bill that allows you to conduct really public purchases today, the bill that really allows you to save public funds, save community money? Why are you creating preferences for certain companies today? Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u140	I'll bet you 8 votes. The committee did not support please identify and vote. [[12:36:41]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 10 lashes, Puziyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u141	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Chairman, the 10th amendment to me is essentially taken into account. Please correct Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u142	That's 18 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u143	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, this is about the position that is being specified, what price should be included in the contract report, which is done without the use of the electronic purchasing system. However, this clarification is unnecessary, thus burdening legislation. In accordance with article 1 of the Public Procurement Act, the procurement agreement is an economic contract. And according to Article 189 of the Code of Masters, price is an essential condition of the economic contract. So the project basically duplicates the situation twice. Mrs. Roxolana, we're distorting legislation, so comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u144	I'm betting on the vote number 18 of Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:16]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 19th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexanderovich and I, and all our fellow parliamentarians, thank you for your attitude towards the Rules, for your respect for colleagues, but in any case Parliament is a place of discussion. And so there are specific questions to the committee representative, to the author of a bill that I am as a parliamentarian, a representative of the Ukrainian people in Parliament, and our citizens would like to hear the professional response of the committee representative of what is specifically relevant to this article. Why are you duplicating twice, and why is such a violation of legislation taking place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u146	I'm betting on the vote number 19 of Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:27]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 20 lashes, Puziyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u147	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, note that my previous report was 40 seconds, saving 20 seconds of time for a committee representative to answer questions of interest. They come from entrepreneurs, they come from different associations, where there is a warning that this bill will make competition worse in Ukraine, that this bill will make services that will be provided worse, services that will be provided at the expense of the state. So we want to hear the answer, and I had a specific question about my amendment 17 to explain the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u148	You could save even more time if you didn't apply for confirmation. I'm betting on the vote number 20. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:52]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next line 22, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrey Puziyczuk, faction of Fatherland, Zitomirščina. Mr. Dmitre Alexanderovich, I fully support you and agree with you that national MPs would not insist on amendments if the bills were quality, professionally prepared, supported in the Ukrainian business. The only opportunity for us to take a business position today is this parliamentary room, which is a place for discussion, for parliamentary discussion. This is not our right, but our duty to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, to protect the Ukrainian business, and to focus on such bills that will harm Ukrainian businesses, which will destroy competition, which will lead to the untransparent use of budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u150	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 22 amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:21]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 26, Puzijchuk People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u151	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, last year during the pandemic, we also insisted on amendments to the protection of Ukrainian land. And today, our leader, Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, represents the interests of the Ukrainian people, defends the interests of the Ukrainian people in the Constitutional Court. Because you're conducting such inadequacy laws, not only regarding public procurement, but you're doing your work today against the state, the sovereignty, the Ukrainian business, against the Ukrainian citizens, your activity is about to be destroyed. Both our leader and our faction and 79 percent of Ukrainian citizens oppose the sale of Ukrainian land. And you're making the same similar mistakes with these public purchases right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u152	Vote 26 of the Puzijchuk People’s Deputy Amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:49]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 28th. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, my performances today are probably no longer addressed to our colleagues because we don't hear explanations from a representative of Parliament, a representative of a profiling committee. And you know, I do have this kind of rain when a year ago, during a pandemic where Ukrainian agrarians didn't get here during quarantine, they adopted a bill at night. What's the rain? At that time, the head of the profiling committee was also standing on the rostrum, but there was no explanation. And what happened, and what happens next? We have used our capabilities to protect Ukrainian land in Parliament, and with the submission of the Fatherland faction, and our leader, Yulia Volodymyrny Timoshenko, today, "Fatherland" stands for our right to land, your right to land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u154	I'm betting on a vote of 28 amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:19]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 31. National MP Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u155	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, pay attention to the total disregard for your rights. Your Honor, why can't we, your colleagues, get an answer to any of the questions about the bill? And the point of my amendment is that this bill limits the rights of social organizations, people with disabilities, by establishing an additional requirement for tax benefits. What does this have to do with the public procurement bill? And only then will the purchase of such organizations take place without applying the competitive procedure of simplified purchases. It is not clear what tax benefits are for in the Public Procurement Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u156	There is 31 amendments to the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:49]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 33rd Puzichuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, note the logic of this bill. This bill, on the one hand, removes specific requirements for reasons of lack of competition, creates obvious corruption risks and provides carte blanche to unscrupulous customers who will conduct tenders in the interests of certain persons and at the same time reinforces the requirements for organizations of persons with disabilities that need to be supported. Look at the distorted logic of this bill. I have a question: For whom and for what purpose is this bill? I don't see an appendix to this bill, where companies are listed in specific areas that will win these tenders? I ask you to support my offer and do not create problems for the organizations of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u158	It's the 33rd draft of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:17]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 35. The gunman insisted, yes. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u159	Arsenius Pusharenko, "Serve of the People". Dear colleagues, it's a really important bill, and it's very good that we're looking at it today, and I urge everyone in general to support it. As far as I'm concerned, it's about improving tender procedures for road farming, for road infrastructure. Why? Because we can see that last year we were able to build over 4,000 high - quality miles of state roads. We see that for 30 years all of us know, all of us, we're here, that the road infrastructure wasn't built, and it was actually in critical condition. And against the backdrop of the construction of 4,000 state-owned roads, we've seen the road mafia, through the Antimonopoly Committee, abuse their rights, through other mechanisms, block these procedures, and these tenders. That's why my amendment is called for to improve it. I'm asking all of you, dear colleagues, to support my amendment so that we can effectively work and build new high-quality roads today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u160	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u161	The committee's editing is unfortunately not supported, but the author's logic is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 35. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:50:25]] For 268. Decision taken. Next line 38, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u163	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, listen very carefully. This amendment refers to changes to article 7, which defines the terms and conditions of government regulation, procurement control and public control. The law of law provides for the screening of documents relating to all purchases by treasury. And you're going to do this project just for the purchases that are made using the electronic purchasing system. What will happen to those purchases that are done without the use of an electronic system? How will they control themselves at all? And given that you're simplifying the criteria for lack of competition, you're automatically increasing the number of spot purchases, well, the conclusions are very unpleasant. So I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u164	I'm betting on a vote of 38 Puzichuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:50]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Froll, Shahov, don't they insist? Puziczuk, 45 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I address my colleagues from Voice first. You're a proponent of public procurement, that's probably the purpose of your activity. Listen carefully, it's about publishing information about the purchase. The project narrows down the number of cases where the publication of purchase information is mandatory, so it will actually begin to hide tenders, namely, the obligation to publish procurement reports if the contract is not executed. The information will not be published even if the contract is terminated. Listen, how can public information about public procurement not be published? Where is the publicity if you start to hide information about tenders?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u166	I'll bet you 45 Puzichuk's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:13]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 46, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u167	Dmitri Alexanderovich, 47th. 46th is related to the 10th, which was not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u168	47th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u169	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, this amendment refers to the changes to article 13, which provides for the procurement process to be done by means of an electronic purchasing system. We all support electronic purchases, that's good. But open trades with limited participation are what? Is that what happens when you use an electronic system? The law also provides for purchases to be made without the use of this system. What about such purchases? What are these public purchases? You will either be fully supportive, or you will be able to conduct various forms of purchases. And this change needs to be ruled out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u170	I'm betting on the vote of 47 Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:36]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next line is 49, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear entrepreneurs, distinguished citizens, I address you. Listen to what unique novels the drafters prescribe. The bill proposes to replace the contracting party’s obligation to make a deal with the successful bidder on the right to make a deal. I have a simple question, perhaps, for you. Why make tenders if your victory does not mean that we will make a deal with you? If you happen to win a tender and you don't get into a list of accredited companies in these areas, if you don't get into that list of bidders, they won't make a deal with you. This could be a right that's starting to create corruption risks again. Will you be invited and asked to explain the terms on which you will be treated? This bill is simply permeated by corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u172	I'm betting on the 49th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:08]] For-92 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u173	51 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u174	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexanderovich, let me at least explain one question. Why won’t a contract be concluded with the winner? Why is it not an obligation to make an agreement, but a right? What is the point of this bill if the procurement procedure is completely nullified by this norm? The right of the winner to have the opportunity to perform services, to provide services, and to place the goods is totally nullified. This is the real absurdity of these proposals. Then honestly, these bills are written under a list of accredited companies. For others, there is no point in even submitting to these tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u175	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Mr. Puziyczuk, I just want to say that what you're saying has very little to do with your rights. In your many amendments, you simply exclude every paragraph of the bill, whether it's a technical norm or not a technical norm. As for your question about the treaty. This standard refers to the fact that the customer can make a contract the following day, not 20 days later. In general, the obligation to make a deal with a winner is regulated in another article of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u177	I'm betting on the vote number 51 of Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:23]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next line is 59, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Respectable citizens! Dear entrepreneurs! You have access to this bill today, and tomorrow, and in the future, on the Council's website. Note that the information mentioned by our classmate does not fully match the reality. The winner of the trade is the person with whom the contract is to be made, not possible. The law now provides for the obligation, not the right of the contracting party to make contracts. And that must be the norm of the law. The interests of the Ukrainian business must be protected. The interests of Ukrainian entrepreneurs must be protected. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u179	I'm betting on the 59th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:45]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 61st, right? 61st, Maslov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u180	I have a total of eight rights. I'm going to ask you two minutes in a row, and I'm only going to put two tickets to the vote: 71st and 96th. Can I do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u181	Please, yes, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u182	It's about 71 tickets. Colleagues, 71 petitions, attention to the content of the bill, the authors propose that evidence of a violation of the law is added to the claim. What can be set up only as a result of the examination of the complaint. And by setting it up, it's possible for an appellate body without any action, in fact, just to get rid of complaints that they don't like, they just don't need complaints without consideration. At the same time, evidence is requested. I'm asking you to support her, 71 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u183	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u184	This is not supported by the committee, especially because we see the appropriateness of documentary confirmation of the rights violated in the course of the complaint, because the complaint is very often used for a tender trolling.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u185	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 71 amendments to the People's Deputies of Maslova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:52]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, we'll come back because we had 61st. So 63rd, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u186	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Excuse me, fellow citizens, stand back. My amendment concerns the following. That the project prohibits the withdrawal of complaints of public procurement infringements. Think about it. You can't call off a complaint about some kind of public purchase. Why? And because they're trying to eliminate the standard there for non-conformity competition. Yes, it may be necessary not to pay back to the complainants who unjustifiably file these complaints? And we're going to make the budget fill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u187	I'm betting on the 63th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:23]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 65, Puzichuk, please. No, right? Thank you. Podlasa, 67th. No, it's not. 69th. No, it's not. 71st. We've already voted. 73rd, Frolov. No, it's not. 75th, Puzichuk. Let's skip, okay. 76th, Maslov. Yeah? No, it's not. Okay. 77th, Shahov. 81st, Puziychuk. No, it's not. 82nd, Podlas. No, it's not. 83rd, Maslov. 84th, Puziychuk. No, it's not. 85th, Maslov. Dennis, what do you got? 96th. 86th, Puzichuk. 87th, Maslov. 89th, Maslov. The '90s, Puzichuk. 91st. Puzichuk. 96th, Maslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u188	Colleagues, about the tender trolling you mention. Are you saying it's a tender trolling fight? So here's my 96th ruling concerns that not only a tender troll is allowed to deal with a complaint, but also a participant in the action against whom the decision was made. Who is involved in this decision? Because the strange thing is that a tender troll can, along with the customer, take part in the review of a complaint, and the participant who won an honest win, for example, in the procurement tender, gives the most economically sound price, the most economically advantageous one, he can't take part in anything. So this is my number 96 issue, where I insist that it be supported, and it also allows such participants to participate in these complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u189	Committee position, please. 96th. Dear colleagues, I'm voting for 96 amendments to the People's Deputies of Maslova. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:58]] For 316
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u190	Decision taken. Edit included. Does the puzichuk insist on finishing yet? No, it's not. Thank you. Who else insists on editing? To confirm the amendment, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u191	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ah, please pass on the word to Shufric. I'm sorry, we didn't get along with our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u192	There's no word here. Edit what, dear fellows? Turn on the Coltunovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u193	Thank you, Mr. Head. There are some amendments here. I'd like to pay attention, in a minute, three adjustments I'm going to make. We simply changed the table to a second reading, and three additional amendments were made to the Rules: 136, 137 and 138. There's a comparative table on the Supreme Council website since May 28. And yesterday, 03. 06 A table of changes appears to have appeared, and this is a new amendment. We have not seen these amendments on any other reading, nothing else. So from this point of view, I ask them to be confirmed. And in fact, well, it's really schematic when it's allowed in favor of individual oligarchic groups to redistribute property complexes, taking into each other, passing on to others. So I'm asking you to put them on confirmation so I can do it anyway. and not to vote, Thank you for your attention. And the regulatory committee, I'm paying attention to how we make amendments to the second reading, why with the interruption, and how is this published? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u194	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, number 136 is partially counted, 137 and 138 are fully accounted for. They, it is not true that they were not discussed on the committee, they were in the table since May 28th, and the committee discussed them, even the author of the amendment David Arahami reported these amendments. The committee decided that these amendments were in place in this bill. So I ask you to support and keep these revisions accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u196	I'll bet you the license number 136 of Arachami. The committee is partially accounted for. I'm betting on the vote in the paper proposed by the committee for confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:09:00]] For 261 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Next issue is 138 Arachami. The committee. 137th, I'm sorry, Arachami. The committee is fully accounted for. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:09:31]] For 259. Decision taken. And extreme regulation 138 is also an Arachamaic. Considered by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:09:51]] For 263 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and other laws on improving the system of public procurement complaints (registration No. 5309). Please support and vote. [[13:10:34]] For 273 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Next question of order. Break with a replacement for the performance. Chigos, please, Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, we're drawing your attention to the latest decision of the RNA somewhere on the list, our friends from the Sheikh Mansour battalion, who in the most difficult times for Ukraine have stood up for our nation. And it's not about "wool in the law," which will easily find common ground under the criminal regime of Putin or Lukashenko. What awaits our friends is what we all know. This is revenge on Russia, this is torture and death in Russia's colonies. I hope they happen to be on this list. But this will hit the image of both power and Ukraine. Because our nation is respected for giving away the invader, the aggressor, Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u198	I would like to remind you that we, Ukrainians, have just mentioned what dignity and freedom are in 2013 and 2014. And when we started the war, we suddenly realized where heroism was and what honor it was. And I want to remind you that in 2014, not only did Ukrainians from around the world respond to the call, but also the Dagestans, Georgians, Chechens and Russians, whom Putin's criminal and criminal government immediately announced as enemies and declared persecution. You yourself have seen and remember, there have been numerous videos of the fact that this is not your war, which was directed at our brothers in the arms of the Chechens. Go, the government of Ukraine will betray you, or return to Yccheria, or go back to your Europe where you fled. No, they said. What a brotherhood is, we too have learned since 2014, very clearly and openly. It is not an honor to give back to the enemy of our brothers. It's not an honor and an abomination to do so with those who stand side by side for our freedom and freedom. Because someday we'll still be together celebrating the breakup of this "dwarf regime" and freedom. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u199	Thank you. Heroim Slava! Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich is from procedure. None. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and the failure of the subject to declare a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a State or local self - government (Registration No. 4651). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Then let's go straight. Surkis. Don't insist. Kulinich. Fraud. He's a great man. Batenko. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, first of all, we point to the fact that in this Parliament there are individual political forces, certainly experiencing ratings, perhaps experiencing how they will be taken into account in individual embassies by this bill and amendments, often vary in common sense. And by common sense, we take into account the decisions of the constitutional courts of the past, and the fact that we are a constitutional state, and how we are actually fighting corruption in this state. Therefore, we point out that the declaration of unreliable information and the failure of the subject to declare an electronic declaration are not in itself marked by corruption, as demonstrated by the decision of the Constitutional Court of recent times, and by other conventions that we have taken on arms as a State of Ukraine, such as the United Nations Convention determining the status of corruption, so we do not have to jump out of our pants.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u201	I'm betting on the 6th amendment of the Batenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:55]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 7. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u202	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. In this direction, I want to go to the reporter, Alexander Sergiyovich, with the following question. Article 9 of the Ukrainian Constitution speaks of the following: The international treaties in force, which are binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are part of Ukraine’s national legislation. Ukraine ratified two international conventions in October 2006. The first is the UN Convention against Corruption and the second convention is the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption. None of these conventions refer to a misrepresentation of a criminal offence. The question is simple: Why do you and I accept international conventions? Why do we agree with you that the very fact that international conventions are adopted is part of the Constitution, in violation of our international conventions and commitments? Please give an answer, Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u203	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u204	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Our legislative system is built in such a way that even if we ratify international legislation, international law and give it the status of national norms, we have the right to complement our national law system with our own norms and our own vision. However, I would like to point out that we do not refer these criminal offences or crimes to criminal offences that are corrupt. We created a special abbreviation and described it as a criminal offence related to corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u205	I'm betting on the vote of 7th amendment of the people's deputy Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:07]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 9. Reverend, 9th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u206	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. This amendment refers to the fact that, by defining the international legal rules for the incorporation of unreliable information into the declaration of a person acting as a State, although it is an offence related to corruption but not a corruption offence. Appropriately, it is suggested that we leave the possibility of applying effective penance to these types of official crimes. Please put to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u207	I'm betting on the vote of 9th Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Most High. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:03]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Yeah, 12-a, Brainy. 13th, Mama. Don't insist. 14th, Kulinich. You insist, don't you? 13th, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u208	Well, then, I can't tell. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u209	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u210	Turn it on again, you've eaten for 10 minutes with a question. Dear National Deputies! Thank you. Notice, in this room, it has just been said that really conventions are ratified, we have to stick to them and change them, or prescribe our legislation. But there should not be differences. Well, let the Ukrainian people hear me. Crimes of corruption or corruption are the same or not? And the speaker says it's not the same thing, and we're doing it separately. Corruption crimes, if we've ratified, we still have to follow one strategy. And if there is no declaration in corruption according to ratified conventions, what are we changing? Turn off this amendment that you're making and violating international legislation ratified by Ukraine, and we'll vote in favour. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u211	Yes, of course. I'm betting on the vote of 13th Amendment of the People's Deputy Mamka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:48]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 14, Kulinich. Don't insist. 15th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 17th, Batenko. Please, Taras Ivanovich, 17th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u212	Ruslan Alexiyovich, two repairs, they're adjacent. Please put it to a vote of 17 and 31. What do we want to do with these adjustments? We suggest that a criminal offence be determined, such as the failure of the subject to declare only the information he knows about the object of the declaration to the electronic declaration. We are convinced that this action will more objectively explain the nature of the wrongdoing. In fact, we place the subject of the declaration on a dependency basis, if we do not consider it, depending on the will of third parties who may not provide the subject with the relevant information, or provide incomplete or inaccurate information, without any responsibility. In fact, this right will take into account the Constitutional Court’s ruling of October 27, 2020, in which the court stated that the imposition of criminal responsibility for the declaration of knowingly unreliable information and the deliberate failure of the subject to the declaration is an excessive punishment for the commission of such offences. Please put these two amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u213	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. I put the 17th, then the 31st. It's all right, isn't it? I bet on the vote of 17 the amendment of the Batenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:27]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. And I immediately place 31 amendments to the Batenka People's Deputy. Same thing, the committee's offering to reject. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:51]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 18, Fries. Don't insist. 19th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 20th, Brainy. Don't insist. Are you insisting? 20th. Okay. 21st, Mama. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of a recent history when, in 366, the Constitutional Court ruled that it was unconstitutional and unconstitutional. Instead, last year, a working group of all the factions of the national MPs gathered, made a voluntary decision, returned declarations, but with limitations: thresholds and restrictions of will. How do you respect yourself when you're told that you have to cut the threshold twice and not explain why? The simple question is: leave it in the old order or explain from the rostrum, what is the structure that the economic justification is used to reduce the threshold? Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u215	I'll bet 21 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. I see that you support this law. [[13:25:39]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Vlasenko. Don't insist. Kulinich. Fuck. 28th, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u216	And yet, when I comment on my amendment, I'm trying to make sure that the citizens of Ukraine and the civil servants who fill out the declaration understand who the buyer of this banquet is, you know. If we can't understand ourselves, we can't understand for the reason that they just keep quiet and don't explain anything, then we need to know our heroes in person. My amendment says that there was a time when deprivation of liberty was declared unconstitutional. After that, the Council voted, made compromise restrictions on will. But when you analyze what happened before, you're going to be deprived of your will: one criminal act in a few years, which came to a logical conclusion, before the court. Once again, we return the deprivation of liberty, and no one explains why.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u217	I'm betting on a vote of 28 Mama's. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:18]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line, Mama, 34th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that criterion 366 has not changed in any way from that article that was declared unconstitutional. First. There was an article. The table of contents is composed, I'm telling you, of sanctions. And if divided now, the same story, into two articles, and put it together, you'll get the same article, which is declared unconstitutionally unconstitutional. We have little change in the thresholds and sanctions for this article, we are going back to the first unconstitutional edition, to whom are we helping -- Ukrainian citizens or corrupters who are essentially going to provide unreliable data, not to file a declaration? And in six months, they'll confess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u219	I'm betting on the vote number 34, Moms. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:56]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 43rd, Mama. Wait. Grandma? 41 redundancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u220	Dear Chairman, I have ten rights. Please give me three minutes. And to vote on only two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u221	Give me an update, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u222	26th, 41st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u223	26th, 41st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u224	44th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u225	44th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u226	46th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u227	46th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u228	47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u229	Vote what?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u230	Vote 56th and 46th. 46th and 56th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u231	46th and 56th. Okay. Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u232	Thank you. Grandma Mikola, White Church. Dear colleagues, at the end of last year, the efforts of the joint working group of our High Council with you have reached a compromise decision and have returned criminal responsibility for the crimes that we are talking about today. But we see that something has changed, a new political will has emerged. And in spite of the principles of justice, of proportionality, we today come to what we should consider this bill and determine how to increase criminal responsibility. I think that if such a decision is to be made, it is important to talk about punishment. If it is indeed a socially dangerous action, and it is indeed so, we see a huge number of corrupts with huge assets who cannot explain their origins, let us no longer speak of it as a crime, but we compare it to a serious crime. Let's not talk about the possibility of restrictions of will, fines. And if we have only 2 years of free will in good order, my rights will solve this problem. I suggest we compare these crimes to serious crimes and punish them from 5 to 10. That's what I'm I'd like the entire room to support the editing. I also ask the "ministers of the people" to support the proceedings. And, you know, we are, in fact, if we don't vote for it now, it's a conflict of interest. I call upon the "ministers of the people" and all factions to support my regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u233	I'll bet you two votes: 46th and 56th. Right? They're not supported by the committee. I'll bet you number 46 on it. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:21]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 56th row, Babenko. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:41.]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Thirty-six, Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u234	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Well, I understand that the hall is not interested in this bill in principle, to listen to the common sense of a number of factions and MPs. But at the same time, we would like to remind ourselves that this amendment suggests that we do not provide for the waiver of the will as a sanction for such an act as failure by the subject to declare known information about the object of the declaration to the electronic declaration, and in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which we normally ignore. And I would like to remind you that the sad or famous article 366, which has been punished in previous years, according to NAZK's statistics, has been punished with the deprivation of the will of the country and village councils in Ukraine. This is the level of fight against corruption that we've shown for this article. So please put my amendment to the vote, 36th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u235	I'll bet you 36 votes Bat. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:12]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Next line, Reverend, right? 37th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u236	I have three papers: 23rd, 37th and 54th, one minute. I would like to say that we propose to exclude punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty for an offence in connection with the absence of the social danger of the criminal offence in question. And logically, we propose to increase sanctions in the form of fines for committing a criminal offence. Please put to the vote and support the changes: 23, 37 and 54. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u237	One more time, 53?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u238	23, 37, and 54.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u239	We're past 23. Sergey Anatolyovich, we've passed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u240	You haven't given me a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u241	No, no, I called.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u242	Thank you. 37, 54.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u243	37. I'll bet on the vote number 37 of the People's Deputy. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:33]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line, Radina, Mama, 43.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the way in which we have permanent legislation. What's a constant? Turborezhima is understandable to Ukrainian citizens. Recall how it was rectified by this time, and repentance is of the vast majority. I want to point out that even in organized crime groups, it is not less than a year. We've had the law for three months. The stability is analyzed, all conclusions are drawn. I mean, they're going to explain to us why we're increasing and introducing willlessness based on what kind of analysis? Well, other than medical, there's a legislative analysis, a analysis of legal practice, practical application. Why did we have a limitations on our will? I want to insist on my right hand, leaving the limits of will. If that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u245	I'll bet you a vote. 43. Amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:09]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to Baba 44. Don't insist. Radina, 45th. Don't insist. Babenko, 46th. Don't insist. 47th, Babenko. 48th, Babenko. 49th, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u246	Ruslan Alexiyovich, two revisions and they're final -- 49th and 63rd, they're interconnected. Please put to the vote. With these lines. They interact with others regarding the identification of criminal offences, such as the failure of the subject to declare only known information about the object of the declaration. We propose to specify what information about the objects of the declaration is known as the object of the declaration, and we call for this right that information on the objects of the declaration that are in possession or use of the family members of the subject of the declaration should be provided only in writing. I'd like two revisions of 49th and 63rd to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u247	I'm in 49th and then 63rd. I'm betting on the 69th amendment of the Batenka People's Deputies. 49th, I'm sorry, National Deputy Batenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:45]] For-99 The decision is not taken. And you're still asking for 63, right? I'm betting on the 63th amendment of the Batenka People's Deputies. Similarly, the committee proposes to reject. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:09]] For-100
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u248	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Radina doesn't insist. Kabachenko doesn't insist. Your Honor, we've already spoken. Does Fries insist? 50 lashes, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention, however, to what information they are considered to be objective and subject to declaration. This is information that has become known to a member of the family of the declarant and the declarant himself, but how to obtain this information and when they become known by law. So you can just and simply think of any information as being known. This clearly indicates what information is known, which is provided by a member of the family of the declarant to express it in a declaration. That's it. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u250	I'm betting on the vote number 50 of the Fries People's Deputies. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:25]] For 304 Decision taken. Edit included. Congratulations, Igor Pavlovich. Next line, Kabachenko. Is he insisting? 53rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u251	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland. Thank you. To the sanctions of article 363 pr. 3 The Criminal Code, that is, for deliberately failing to declare, is proposed to add another form of responsibility, namely the removal of liberty for a term of up to two years. Thus, this article points to the same legal fact — that is, the intentional failure of a declaration — that the judge will have three instruments to choose from: a fine, a public job, and that is immediate deprivation of liberty. We're proposing that you be deprived of your will as a license to replace it with a restriction of your will. It's like a first offer. Second offer. If, for some reason, you do not agree with the proposed option, please add a restriction of will to the list of sanctions. And then the judge, based on his motives, will be able to choose among such instruments as fines, public works, restrictions of will, and, above all, the deprivation of will. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, please don't distract the reporter. Dear colleagues, Denis Anatolyevich, vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 53 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:16]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 58 lashes, Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, here is the expression of very important politicians: "What reforms do you lack?".. I'm going to explain how the anti-corruption system works in Ukraine with regard to accountability. Can you keep it down?Oh, my God! Ask for silence in the hall because it's very hard to work. In order to provide unreliable data in a declaration or not to submit it, it is still necessary to do so, before the declaration is made, through the commission of crimes, namely, illicit wealth, abuse of duty, negligence, embezzlement and all that, and more than 40 of those articles, and at this stage it is authorized for the law enforcement authorities to document these actions of the person who will submit the declaration. But do you have any idea how law enforcement agencies are doing that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u254	I'm betting on a vote of 58 Mama's. The committee is not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, thank you. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[13:43:50]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 59th, Kovalov. There is a technical error about this amendment, so it is proposed to give the word to the author and to place it on confirmation. Yeah? Amendment number 59, Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u255	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, we have a mistake. But what I want to point out is that 59 right now is that because of the failure of the declaration that now exists in the paper, there is no free will for up to 2 years, i.e. for failing to declare. I think it's too much punishment. Because, for example, to avoid paying taxes, we have a fine, and for failing to declare it, we have a head of agriculture, a deputy or a secretary, up to two years of imprisonment. My right is to restrict, not deprive, the restriction of will. I think it's a normal and sufficient punishment for failure to declare. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u256	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, there is indeed a technical error here, but the committee has supported the idea of leaving free but not limited will. Why is that, because it would be more convenient for a person to not submit a declaration at all, because there would be restrictions on the will to sanction this article, as opposed to lying, excuse me, and then responsibility would be 362 with 2 will be forfeited. It was for this purpose that the committee came out of there and there was a deprivation of liberty. Thank you. And I ask you to ask this question for confirmation, and let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u258	Look, what you're saying is that it's not supported by the committee, you can't see it from the table. So there's an offer to put it on the stand. Ready to vote? For confirmation. I'll bet number 59 Kovalova on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:46:09]] For 251 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Next line is 60. Do Not Urge Jurchisin. Don't insist. Jurchisin insists. 62 readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u259	Dear friends. First of all, I want to thank the committee that we've come to consider this bill, we've really lost six months, which has led us to believe that the declarations that we filed on April 1st are no longer subject to verification, actually, under this article, is not a fact. Let me remind you, the Voice made proposals in December, and if we accepted them, we would have completely resolved that question. What does this amendment actually suggest? To implement the proposals of the Venice Commission, which we were given in May, that all one hundred thousand top officials vote again, be declared. So there's no reverse, because this is "Transitional positions," but in fact, we're going to make it clear that we're not avoiding responsibility. And the rapporteur's request to tell us why this amendment is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u260	I'll bet 62 for confirmation. No, not at all. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[13:47:52]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line's 65, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u261	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you, colleagues, for maintaining the previous draft. Now this is about making changes to the Profile Act on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, which is once again about information that is known to the declarant and a member of the declaration. So, please, it needs to be supported in the same way as before.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u262	I'll bet you vote number 65. The committee is not supported. Ready to vote? Take into account. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:48]] For 294 Decision taken. Edit included. Next item. All the changes have been made. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the correction? Don't shout. Come to me, please, the rapporteur and head of the committee. Quiet in the hall, please. Explaining the situation. Colleagues want another confirmation check, but they can't find the number. We will now give them the opportunity to find and be sure. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's probably very important, well, we need to respect our colleagues. That's because Moms didn't answer his revisions, yeah, that's how the awkward situation turned out. Did you find it? Colleagues, take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine on improving responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and failure by the subject to declare a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a State or local self-government (Registration No. 4651). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:55:18]] For 307 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 219, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 26, "The Fatherland" – 17, "The Future Party" – 1, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 17, "The Non-Factional" – 10. Drought is procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, this is a very technical question, but it's very important that we replace members of the TSC. I would like to thank Raduccik Mikhail Borisovich and Wheeler Annie Sergiyevni, who have shown a desire to allow other members to also address the issue of TSK – Stock Exchange Irina Nautical and Mezenzki Maria Sergiyevna. In doing so, there is a proportional presence of all the factions in our TSC. The TSK is very important, and we'll soon make an interim report for you. The TSC notes that children with disabilities are constantly violated in Ukraine. We set up these facts, we keep reporting them. I would like to ask your support so that we can consolidate all efforts on this issue. Because if we don't stop this genocide against children with disabilities right now, no one can. The whole hope of our parents is that we are disabled with you, dear colleagues, they chose us. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u264	Is there no objection? I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole of the draft Decree No. 5352. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:57:14]] For 334 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the heroization of war criminals and the legalization of Nazism. Needed to Be Discussed? Please make a decision on this matter by means of a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:57:51]] For 238. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bujansky Maksim Arkadijovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u265	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! Thus, the Act banning the propaganda of totalitarian regimes was very good as an anti - Soviet law. And unfortunately, it didn't work as an anti-Nazi law at all. My bill is designed to add positions that make the heroization of Nazism impossible. Think about it, in the 21st century, 80 years after the outbreak of the Great Homeland War, which took 27 million lives, 80 years after the tragedy of Baba's Yar, fans march on the streets of our capital. They march with impunity. One of the SS divisions. This is because the Nuremberg Tribunal has recognized the SS as a criminal organization as a whole. This is because the condemnation of Nazism is the basic value of civilization, which is first and foremost, which has not been told about the horrors of war and racial theories. We must make the heroization of Nazism impossible. The heroization of those directly involved in the SS, the heroization of those directly related to the Holocaust - mass destruction of Jews and Roma. I never thought there would be a moment when we had to do it on a legislative level. But this moment has come, and I hope for your support. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u266	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Andrew Eugenovich Kostin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u267	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The committee considered the matter carefully enough. We have made several references, including to scientific institutions, including universities, to gain a position that includes a historical context. The Subcommittee on Constitutional Law considered the bill separately and found no contradictions or inconsistencies in the Constitution. Therefore, the decision of the Committee recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the heroization of war criminals and the legalization of Nazism (registration number 2797) (since 3 February 2020), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Bujanski, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. The relevant observations that have been made by the institutions, as well as the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, can be taken into account in the drafting of this bill for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u268	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u269	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that the crime committed by people called Hitler, the people called Stalin, the people who are doing it today called Putin, these crimes must go into history and be punished according to our adopted laws, our decisions. So I fully support the decision made by our colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u270	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone absolutely in no way to react to this bill and press the red button. Because even the author contradicts himself. Thank you to all those who supported my parliamentary request when we asked the President of Ukraine to appoint Hero the head of the Brotherhood of the SS division Galicina Mikhail Mulik. And Maksim Bujansky himself voted for Mikhailo Mulik to be the hero of Ukraine! Then he's contradicting himself now! Please, we've had a difficult story. Divisionals are people who have given their lives for Ukraine's future, fought for each of us. And I am proud to have known so many of those who, unfortunately, have not lived to this day. These are real heroes of Ukraine! Please do not play with the Russian electorate. Let us be patriots of our country. Let us honor and honor our heroes. And remember, if it weren't for them, we wouldn't have an independent Ukraine right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u272	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Wait, the line, Bujansky. Turn the microphone on for Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u273	I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that I have never voted in favour of a former essayist named Hero of Ukraine. I voted in favour of bringing this request to the President, and for the President to officially refuse and put a stop to the matter. That's what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u274	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u275	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the highest price in the Great Native War, right in the Great Motherland, which began on June 22, 41st and ended on May 9, 45th, the Ukrainians and the Belarusians gave up the greatest lives of their citizens. Most of all. The Fascists crossed our territory twice, to Moscow, and then fled from Moscow. So I'm absolutely sure there's nothing to argue about. And that's where World War II is. So I ask a question as a shepherd: Why don’t we say that in Ukraine the war began in 1938 after the Munich Conspiracy when France, Britain, began. Germany, Italy, agreed to distribute Czechoslovakia. And, by the way, a piece of it is in Poland, and a piece is in Hungary. And so it happened that my hometown of Uzhgrad was no longer able to return to Ukraine in the year 39. So let us treat history with kindness. By your logic, World War II in Ukraine began after the Munich Conspiracy in 1938. So let's say there's a holy date: June 22 41st and May 9th 45th. And anyone who has shot in the back of the Red Army, who has fought against fascism, is certainly a traitor. After 45 years, everyone had the right to determine how he treated the Soviet authorities. And when our soldiers and the SS were shot in the back, we have to condemn it, as the Nuremberg trial condemned. History requires justice and accountability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u276	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u277	Please pass the word to Vátrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u278	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, instead of solving real problems, Parliament spends its time on projects that are not simply empty and impractical, but are written entirely in the wake of Russian propaganda. All you can do is pay respects to the person who's asked what else to do for the Totalitarian Condemnation Act when it's actually down there. The law is in force, and we have dozens of cases against the use of Nazi symbolism, and the law doesn't need any amendments. The first version of this masterpiece was written so carelessly that the word "regime" was of a female kind, the Third Reich stood as one of the Soviet republics. In addition, the project prohibited the use of the German Hymn, a country that was friendly to Ukraine, because the author of the bill called it a Nazi anthem. But even now, the second version of this project is not completely devoid of anecdotics again. The title of the bill has already been written out of Russian agitators or has been taken from the lawfulness of another traitor to Ukraine, Vadim Kolesnick. In contrast, it is written out of Russian so carelessly that war crimes are referred to as war crimes. The author obviously does not distinguish these concepts. However, the name in this project lives by itself, said Karaul, Nazism legalize, let's stop criminals -- exactly what Russian propaganda says. And the text lives on its own. And here we can only agree with the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which notes that this text only corrupts and weakens the current legislation, which, I recall, is forbidden and not simply forbidden, but provides for the criminal responsibility of 10 years in prison. The only explanation for the emergence of such masterpieces is the aggressor state's assistance in attempts to discredit Ukraine and support Russian lies about the alleged heroization of Nazism in Ukraine. I don't have any questions for an author who produces a similar piece of legislation, that's his specialty. I have a question for the leadership of the Supreme Council. Why are we putting such a trek in a plenary session, why?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u280	Krulko Ivanovich. You don't? Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u281	Dear friends, I want to support my colleagues. Indeed, in Ukraine the Law on the Condemnation of Totalitarian Regimes is passed and, indeed, criminal conduct is revealed, and people are actually called to account, particularly for the propaganda of Nazism. In this situation, this MP really wants to show that there's some kind of increase in the propaganda of national socialism ideology in our country. That's funny. Open your eyes to what we are talking about today! We have a billion problems, but we don't have this problem, like we have the lowest level of anti-Semitism in the country in Europe. This is also a study. So I think parasitizing on this subject is really playing Russian propaganda, where television shows almost daily that it's almost not there. I don't know, symbolically, with Adolf Hitler's flags walking on our streets and avenues. Do not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u282	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u283	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u284	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u285	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, I get the impression that we're not discussing the bill right now, but basically what's written by the sick head and presented here is the legends and myths of the Russian Federation about anti-Semitism, fascism, Nazism, that we've been eating snow for seven years, they've already died out, that we're breaking up children and everything else, that we're total fascists and Nazis. I'm so sorry that someone in this room is letting us talk about the Great Homeland War, not the Second World, and they're talking about June 22nd, not September 1. You know, my home wasn't since June 22, but since September 1st the war came to my house, much earlier. I'm sorry you won't admit it. And it's a disgrace to the police who don't open the case when they bring red labels with red flags. We don't respond to that. It's not about Nazism, it's all working, it's in the Criminal Code and it's in the bill. What's more, I'm probably going to give "100 hours of Ukrainian history" to the drafter of the bill to finally calm down and forget what he's writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u286	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the heroization of war crimes and the legalization of Nazism (registration number 2797). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:13:15]] For 155 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of the draft Law registration number 2797. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:13:44]] For-189 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing. Please support and vote. [[14:14:07]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The next issue is the draft Anti-Semitism Prevention and Anti-Semitism Act in Ukraine (registration number 5109). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:14:37]] For 225 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bujansky Maksim Arkadijovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, it's good to see you again. Sadly, there is still such a shameful phenomenon as anti - Semitism. Fortunately, Ukraine is struggling with all of today’s world, fighting it successfully. But how can we fight anti-Semitism when we don't know what it is. We don't have the concept of anti-Semitism at the legislative level, we don't know what it is. The European Parliament adopted the definition of anti-Semitism and recommended that it be accepted by all countries. This definition was given by the so - called IHRA (International Alliance of Holocaust Victims). Dear colleagues, I will remind you that this fall will be the 80th anniversary of Baba Jar's tragedy. For the sake of the memory of those who died, I believe that for the sake of the memory of those one and a half million Jews who lost Ukraine, we must accept that definition. Remember, there is no Ukrainian anti - Semitism, it is the same everywhere, and we must accept the very definition that is world wide. I ask you all to support this bill, it has the support of the ambassadors of Israel, Germany, the United States. These countries have recognized anti - Semitism as such. I'm asking your support, we need to define in our legislation what anti-Semitism is. It's a separate disgraceful phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u288	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in the Donetsk, Luhansk Region and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the City of Sevastopol, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitr Valeriyovich Lubinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u289	Good day, fellow citizens of Ukraine! On April 28, 21st, the committee reviewed the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition of Anti-Semitism in Ukraine (registration number 5109). Indeed, the purpose of this bill is to combat anti - Semitism and its manifestations in Ukraine. In order to achieve the stated goal, the bill defines anti - Semitism, identifies its main manifestations, prohibits anti - Semitism and its manifestations. The bill also lays down the types of responsibility for violating anti - Semitism legislation. The chief scientific and expert office, the distinguished national MPs, you can see, you've made a note of the bill. At the same time, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech at its meeting also considered and supported the purpose of the bill and believed that the approval of the international definition of anti-Semitism needed to be defined in Ukrainian legislation. The Ministry of Culture and Information Policy, as well as the Ukrainian State Service of Ethnopolitical and Freedom of Conscience, support the whole purpose of strengthening national legislation to prevent national discrimination. At the same time, I believe that the bill still needs to be redrafted. In addition to the national MPs, there were ambassadors from Germany and Israel, who supported the adoption of the bill. In fact, there is a point to some norms, but as national MPs who have looked at this bill in our committee, we think that before the second reading, we can fix it. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u290	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss this? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u291	I ask Rudik to give the word to Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u292	National MP Rudik, please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, a month ago in this room, we voted in a decree setting out the day of May 14, the Day of Remembrance of the Ukrainians who saved the Jews during World War II. According to the Jewish organization Poison Yours, there were officially 2.5 thousand, and unofficially 25,000 Ukrainians. The famous name of the world-famous father of Omelyan Kovc, who died in Midanek in 44, saved more than 600 Jews, Andrew Sheptic and many others. Today, the Jewish community regularly calculates cases of anti - Semitism in Ukraine. Since the 18th year, they've been publishing their reports every year. 19th year result: minus 27 percent. There's anti-Semitism, but on the level of living. 20th year: the level is the same. Pew Research Center, a well-known international organization, determines that today in Ukraine the lowest level of anti-Semitism in Europe. That's me on the timing of this bill. Of course, we think that any "wimmings": both anti-Semitism and xenophobia and racial discrimination are worthy of our condemnation that we are constantly demonstrating. But let's do everything we can and can not do to change the title of this bill. Leaving everything except the word "in Ukraine," because, as reporter number one correctly said, it's a universally recognized term of "anti-Semitism." There is no anti - Semitism in the United States alone, Germany, and Ukraine alone. He is in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u294	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u295	Congratulations! The previous reporter said that we have a sort of inactive subject of anti - Semitism in Ukraine. Sadly, that is not the case. Anti-Semitism in Ukraine is a topic quite relevant. First of all, at the level of the household. In recent times, we have often said that we do not seem to have discrimination according to national, religious, or linguistic characteristics in Ukraine. But that's not true. Discrimination by the mark of skin color, by the sign of language we have in Ukraine is, and unfortunately, the state has not fought these last years. We must make every effort to see this shameful phenomenon finally disappear from Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u296	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u297	Dear colleagues, the author continues to use Russian media headlines as names for his drafts. After preventing the heroization of war criminals and the legalization of Nazism, he suggests that anti - Semitism be prevented and resisted in Ukraine. So I don't actually have any questions about him. But we are once again witnessing attempts to use our parliament to update Russian fairies about the potential threat of anti-Semitism in Ukraine. The study Pew Research 2018, which says that Ukraine is the last place in Europe according to the anti - Semitism indicators. I don't know, maybe after the election of the President of Greens in 2019, the situation has increased dramatically and anti-Semitism has increased dramatically in Ukraine, and we need a special law. That's probably what the author of this law is calling for. In fact, this project is contrary to 24 articles of the Constitution, which prohibits privileges, restrictions on ethnic origins, and the internationally acceptable definition of anti - Semitism. Not to mention the openly provocative formulation of "anti-Semitism in Ukraine," the complete inadequacy of the draft principle of legal certainty and the overcrowding of this project with evaluation judgements. Colleagues of majority, if you don't want to hear the expert's opinion, please contact the representatives of your government, the Cabinet of Ministers. Listen to Mincult, who urges us not to adopt such thoughtless projects without professional discussion. Listen to the MSA, hear the scientific expertise of Parliament in the end. In Ukraine, there has long been a 161 article of the Criminal Code, which provides for 8 years of imprisonment for inflaming national hostility, and thus protects Ukrainians, Jews, people of any nationality and religion. Colleagues, parliament has to solve real problems, not imaginary problems, but problems created by Russian propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u298	The word is given to National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u299	I ask you to pass the word of Volosin Oleg Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u300	Oleg Anatolyovich Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u301	Fellows, you know, there is this expression: If the Lord wants to destroy someone, he first takes away his mind. And that's exactly what's going on in this room, because what did Mr. Bujansky actually do with his bills? He offered a unique rescue for both the authorities and the parliament as a whole, so that it would be very effective to get away from the disgrace that had fallen on all of Ukraine after the SS Galicina's supporters marched through Kiev. I can personally say that when I shared the pictures from that parade in the Socialist Group, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it was the largest group, 186 members from all the members of the Council of Europe -- it was a total shock. We are now preparing debates on extreme rights and anti-Semitism in Europe, including in Ukraine. So, at first there was no reaction, and then the authorities began to separate themselves from it. Today, Bujansky's two bills suggested a unique opportunity to say: Ukraine fights Nazism, Ukraine condemns those who collaborated with Hitler in the 1940s, Ukraine fights anti-Semitism. And what do we hear instead? Justification and heroization of the same SS. I guarantee you that a speech by one of my colleagues, who today called the SS division fighters the heroes, will be translated in an hour into English and sent to all the MEPs of the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the American Jewish Committee, Congress and all the parliaments of the civilized countries of the world. In the same way, you're actually helping to create in Ukraine the image of not just rejecting the disgraceful pages of your history, but being proud of them. What are you doing? If you fail this bill, I assure you, I will do everything in all international territories to have this power and this Parliament elected as one who was afraid to stand in the fight against Nazism and anti-Semitism to fight the truth and side of the entire civilized world. In the same way, you will help real enemies who want to make Ukraine look bad. [[Unheard]] Put down the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u302	Anyone else? Bobrovska Solomia Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u303	Bobrovska Solomiya, Voice faction. You know, I was surprised, working in the Odessa region, as well as over 160 national minorities, the representatives of the Nazis, could use themselves and show a unique example of tolerance and how organically and correctly they were all involved: Ukrainians, Russians, Jews, hagauzes, Bulgarians and so on. And I'm so surprised that the country actually became a resource for construction, including the State of Israel in 49, is looking at it today. Because it's really wild and embarrassing. The text that was written like a chicken with a paw and, in principle, does not even fit the vocabulary of the European Council of Terminology. What's more, I'm curious, my esteemed colleagues, you're legislators, are you reading the Criminal Code at all? Is there anything in article 161 of the Criminal Code that tells you about condemnation and criminal responsibility for those who are inflaming and inflaming national hostility? It's all in the legislation. If you want to pass and then adopt 200 more laws in relation to other Nazis, we can, of course, block Parliament's work and stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u304	Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for registration. Excuse me, before the vote. Do you want to continue the meetings? Okay. I am betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Anti-Semitism Prevention and Anti-Semitism Act in Ukraine (registration number 5109) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:29:41]] For 252 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on specific issues of haberdashery-weight control (second reading). No one's going to insist on the papers? Are they going to insist? It's the second reading, it's definitely going to be in general, you won't believe it. Stryharski. Don't insist. Tsymbaluk. Don't insist. How many bars? A lot? One thing is Batenko. Bilozer, how many rights? Two minutes is four shifts? One of them is Eutushka. Five rights. Five rights. Batenko, please tell me the number line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u305	Edit 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u306	Amendment number 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u307	17. 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u308	17, I'm sorry. Please, colleagues. Julia Leonidina, please write a list. Edit 17 Bat included partially. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u309	Two sets of 17 and 121. It's not really counted. We suggest this right not to allow for the prediction of faults in the area of gabarit-weight control by means of photo and cinematography, non-automatic video recording. We've already had a situation where there's been mass abuse using radars to determine the speed of traffic and so on. And so we're convinced that before the second reading, we only have to leave the fixation automatically, as provided in the first reading. Let's just take 17 and 121 into account and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u310	I'm betting on the vote of Battenka. It was partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account, right? I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:05]] For-137 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Murdy, 94 revisions. That's how you showed one. Murdy, 94 revisions. Bilozer, please give me a list of the rights. Write it down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u311	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's a very important law. But I would like some clarifications made in this bill. Colleagues, this is about change. The amendment does not refer to a change in the substance of the bill, but it only applies to filling in the consignment note. In doing so, it minimizes the possibility of a corrupt component in the work of Ukratrans security inspectors on the road, that is, on the line. In this bill it is proposed to indicate the width, length, height of road transport. I propose to support my work, where only the weight parameter that we need to preserve the roads that we are building so actively is being repaired.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u312	I'll bet you 94 votes. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:57]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. It's a binoculars. Two minutes and four adjustments, right? Two revisions. Please turn on the Belozer microphone. Give me an update right away, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u313	Edit 76 and 95. If 95 is accepted, 104 more if possible. If not, there are only two. Can I do that? Look, colleagues, I want to say right away that I think we need to adopt this bill to strengthen control over large-scale transport. But there are some precautions. In particular, look, it's now accepted that a car can be shipped to any point of dimension-weight control up to 50 kilometers. No one will compensate for these routes, and the damage from these extra miles will also be enormous. So we ask that, without deflection on the route, no more than 50 kilometers away, no abuse, no return, no return, only on the route of the car. Please support and take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u314	I'll bet you 76 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:30]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 95 lacquers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u315	Colleagues, 95. Here the obligation to weigh in the fields needs to be lifted and to make sure that only technology is available. Where are the weights on each field of agriculture to be weighed? There's a lot of fines out there. It's just that people are going to be "labelling" and that's all. A healthy mind has to win, because, look, the logic is that when crops are harvested in the field, most of them immediately load grain into trucks in the middle of the field. And they don't have physical weights on each field to weigh the truck, after weighing it, to indicate the correct weight and TTN, which is what we're talking about right now. Therefore, I ask only for the availability of technical means of weighing at the loading point and to take this number 95 into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u316	I'm betting on a 95-right bill of lading. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:48]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thank you. Batenka, any other adjustments? No, it's not. Thank you. Klimenka, name the changes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u317	115th, 155th, 159th and 151th, and 163rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u318	Are you going to insist on all the paperwork? Or are we going to vote for two minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u319	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u320	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u321	But I'd like to place it on the confirmation number 77 of the Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u322	That's what we're going to end up putting on confirmation. Give me two minutes, Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u323	Colleagues, in principle, are the right law and must adopt it, because investment is billions, more loyally, that billions of dollars in roads should be protected from overloaded cars breaking them down and creating emergency situations, and in fact the budget of Ukraine and taxpayers are throwing money away if we are not really saving the road. This law, it must be designed to preserve roads and balance the interests of freighters, freighters and citizens and states. But there's one "but." The law is written in very vague language, which, in the absence of the Ukrainian Security Service with the average salary of an inspector of 6,000,800 dollars and with the possibility of receiving large-scale corruption revenues with vague forms and with great corruption risks. That's why my rights are specifically designed to determine when and how fines are applied. And we also need to understand that we have a lot of weight complexes that we don't just have. They are old and have large errors, including technical errors. So my revisions clearly determine what percentages of overload are the fines. So the revision, for example, 151 is saying that up to 5 percent is not there. There are no fines for a trucker between 5 and 10 percent. Why? Because some weight complexes have 7 percent error. You know, we haven't made it yet. We don't have equipment that can weigh complexes, weigh cars, but we're already fined drivers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u324	Thank you. Let's go to the vote for the drafts. Right? It's 151. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:07]] For 133 It's a 153 right, isn't it? 155 right. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:29]] For-123 The decision is not taken. 159 lashes. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:49]] For 116 The decision is not taken. And 153 revisions. 163 law, Klimenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:17]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. 77 can't be put on confirmation, it's off-limits. Let's move on to the vote. Do I get it right? How many rights do you have? One right, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u325	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, literally from mid-June.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u326	Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u327	No. 60. Since mid - June, synoptics have predicted that heat will begin literally from mid - June. And we also have to make it clear that overloaded cars are going to destroy those roads that have even more or less normal coverage. So we need to take all measures to properly control this situation. At 60 degrees, I strongly suggest that, in order not to impose a rule on offenders, they should be decided in court, as proposed in the law. I propose leaving a valid rule of law so that the central authority, which will control it, will draw from violators who will overload their cars, their money, and their traction. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u328	I'm betting on the vote number 60. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:56]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on specific issues of carrying out multi-dimensional weight control (registration No. 3742). Please support and vote. [[14:43:36]] For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Organization Taxation and Gambling (Registration No. 2713). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:44:16]] For 244 The National Deputy of Ukraine, Marusjak Oleg Romanovich, is invited to the floor, both from the authors and from the committee. Give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u329	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on February 25, 2021, reviewed its decision of June 19, 2020 and decided to introduce a new text of the bill, registration number 2713-d, which proposes the establishment of a single income tax, gross game income, derived from organizations and gambling and the release and holding of lottery tickets 10 per cent. In addition to income tax, it is envisaged that the owners will also pay a tax on income at a total rate of 18 percent. Other activities include the collection and payment of income tax at the base of the basic tax rate by the organizers of gambling. It's proposed to tax the profits that are more than eight minimum wages, that's 48,000 dollars. It is also proposed to cancel an unwarranted triple fee for business licenses, such as organization licenses and bookmaking for organization activities and gambling, online casinos, and a gaming machine. Instead, do not impose a zero tax on income until the 24th year, as previously suggested in the previous edition. The proposed single rate for all types of business will allow all levels of conditions to be set and avoid the risks of disguises of one activity under another, as well as hinder the redistribution of the influence of individual market sectors. In addition, it will help to legalize most of the gambling market and involve foreign entities in the field for which important and understandable and well - founded business rules are involved. Since the current state of affairs is not known in the world, the foreign gambling organizer has not obtained a license due to the imbalance in the price of the license and the current tax rates. The decrease in the GGR tax will be compensated for by licence fees, since Ukraine has the highest fees for licensing and gambling in the world. Today, the Gambling and Lottery Board has already issued 19 licenses to carry out activities as well as separate licences for gaming equipment. The budget has already reached 738 million dollars in license payments in 5 months. And that's not taking into account taxes. For example, three lottery operators have to pay 50 million dollars for licenses by the age of 21. And that's other than taxes. And it's going to be like this every year. The casino license in Kiev is $2 million; in other cities, the casino fee is $1 million. This price only exists in Belarus, but there's a GGR interest of 8 percent, we suggest 10. Instead, one casino in Kiev each year has to pay 80 million dollars just for the license, including licenses for slot machines and gaming equipment. The introduction of an adequate tax burden, balanced with the cost of a license, will ensure that the gaming business is removed from the shadows. The committee at its meeting on February 25, 21st, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law with the necessary technical, legal rights. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u330	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will other co-authors report on their drafts? Yeah? Then please give the floor to the national deputy Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u331	My colleagues, congratulations! I want to say very briefly that any of these bills is actually the right bill, not just about the game business itself, but about the economy. You know, in terms of cash deficits, in terms of finding and releasing extra funds for both jobs and pensions and wages, we as a state today have to find new niches, we as a state have to find new markets. And this market is completely new to us. It's one that attracts international investors, it's one that will allow you to stimulate the tourism sector, it's one that will allow places here to start producing some equipment that will be used in this market. The point is that we can't afford to give up the money that we have today, and we all understand what they are, they're just in the shadows. And today, we need to take a huge first step to start going out and getting this money out of the shadows. If we've already adopted this bill on the liberalisation of gambling, we need to start this process really, we don't have to do half-steps. We need to start this market at last, release these funds from the shadows and allow the Ukrainian economy to really get money white, transparent, clean money from the start of the new sphere and the new industry. So I urge you, colleagues, to support this bill and finally give work to a new market that will generate not one billion dollars for the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u332	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Dubinsky Alexander Anatoliyovich for presentation of an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u333	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! This is a very interesting story with this bill 2713 because it came out because the Servant of the People decided to make another gift for business, not for the people. A gift after a tax reduction for the added value for oligarchs from 20 percent to 14, so - called farmers. It's another gift for those who can make tax amnesty under 2.5 percent of a year when you've spent your whole life paying 18 plus a military collection of 1.5 percent is 19.5. Lottery business is offered to tax less than 10 percent, while all businesses in the country pay 20 percent of their income tax. Lottery activities, slot machines, casinos all deserve the so-called "ministers of the people" tax support to pay twice as much tax as other operators that exist in our country. This is another bill aimed at making people pay more because, despite the promise of this man whose place is now empty, Vladimir Zelensky, tariffs have been raised, despite promises of lowering and higher pensions, they have been reduced to an effective size, despite the promise of economic growth, it is stagnating. On the contrary, it is very necessary to reduce taxes on the gaming business. This is the most important task, as I understand it, in the sense of "ministers of the people." My bill suggests leaving the bet that exists now and comparing it for all kinds of gaming activities -- 25 percent for all kinds of gaming activities. Because it is a game activity that can be compared to a arms trade or a drug trade. It's an evil that needs to be taxed if it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u334	The word is given to the national deputy Dubnov Artem Vasilovich. Out of place, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u335	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I also want to support the bill proposed by the committee. He's better than my editor, so I'm not going to insist on voting on my own project. But I have to tell everyone that this is a bill that allows for a real opportunity to work in the gaming market. Because for a given second, we're just selling licenses as a state, but we can't administer taxes in any way. So this is the first step to get legal business to work, and illegal business to be taken from the streets of our cities. Thank you. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u336	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u337	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u338	Please give it to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u339	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the idea that we have a budget deficit, they're missing. But I don't understand why then I want to lower the rates from 18 to 10 percent, for example. I don't understand why during the war I was cleaning up a military congregation. That is, one of the Ukrainians will gamble, enjoy life, and our military will defend our land and our peaceful sky. Is that how you feel? And there's only one bill, 2713-2, and everyone else is forbidding this access to the control authorities and stuff like that. Who's this for anyway? You gambled, you opened up billions of dollars to the budget, you promised. And now you're leveling out this whole idea. And what I'm saying is, aside from reducing all these bets, you're actually making such a clondayk to get away from the taxation of many natural persons. Because according to these bills, citizens will be able to get away from tax on their winnings and legalize their incomes obtained in a criminal way. And this is a remark by both the GNEU and all the specialists. What are you doing? And when you write in explanatory notes that it's creating favorable conditions for getting out of the shadows and legalizing the work of the sphere of gambling, it's when we, the opposition, say, it's normal. And when the authorities admit that gambling works in the shadows, it is no longer normal, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u341	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u342	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u343	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u344	Dear Ukrainians! A respected business that still works in Ukraine! Are you going to put up with this spit in your face? I don't understand at all, you've been talking about the childization of the game business, and you've calmed the whole population down by giving licenses a government budget of tens of billions of dollars. In the 21st year, it's planned for the state budget to get 7 billion 443 million. We got 581 million. I've been watching the treasury website for four months. What does that mean? That there's no childishness. Whoever was in the shadows, we all know they're still working in the shadows. And it's not exactly a tax system that prevents them from getting out of the shadows, that's for sure. So the decrease in GGR tax for lotteries from 30 to 10 percent is minus 2 billion per year. The market rating is made not by me, but by gambling specialists. GGR down from 18 to 10 for bookmaking, casino down from 1.8 billion. The decrease in the financial result of GGR will result in no one paying the income tax. And don't count on him, you're doing the right thing. And now the most interesting thing about the exemption from the income tax for individuals has won up to 48 thousand. Do you know how much? Minus 6.9 billion. That's an extremely large sum. This is because from the first bracelet, even in the very low-income people, wages are taxed. This is because from the first bracelet, income is taxed on the deposits of the poor themselves. We don't have that limit. Why didn't you offer to free these ordinary poor people from taxes on their incomes? Do you think you can do this? Ukrainian citizens need to know that this law is against them. Not enough that he's socially dangerous, so he's still taking tens of billions of dollars out of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u345	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, I continue to meet for 15 minutes or until the end of my consideration of the matter. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u346	Please hand it over to Grigory Mikolaiovich Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u347	Fuck. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u348	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! You're on. We recorded a year ago when we were yelling here in the hall about what we needed to do in the game business. By law, we did everything by 100 percent with international practice, with all legal and legal and new tariffs. And everyone here promised on the stand that they would pay by the end of last year that they didn't pay or pay zero. But what do we miss? Tax cuts again. Why are we reducing what reason? The game business, you can imagine, it went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. We're talking about legitimate grounds, we're reducing taxes, and from the street, the gambling business is nowhere to be found. We have criminal responsibility for illegal toys. Nobody's doing anything. Where, then, was the law - enforcement system that would have been illegal to bring everyone to the responsibility of the organizers, and when were there conditions that the Supreme Council had already voted? You just have to draw conclusions. Can I talk? Thank you. It's either quality to accept and run the mechanisms, or nowhere to go and not run anything. But if we've got a machine running, we've spent budget money, we've worked, we've voted, we've got something that doesn't go, it's something that's going on, it's something that's not going on, it's not going to get the authors of these stupid ideas that came out in this room a year ago, and we're going to go out to the rostrum together and say, sorry, we're screwed, but we're not going to do that anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u349	Ichchenko Vadim. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u350	Dear colleagues! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. As a member of the profile committee, I remember the battles against the law they are now trying to pass, and with regard to the main gaming law. And at the time, Fatherland systematically said, we are in general against the legalization of this terrible scourge and this addiction, which at the level of drugs and alcohol is destroying Ukrainian and such a very destructive society. You decided to legalize it. You're like the ruling coalition, "The Servant of the People," you said there would be billions of incoming. Then, by putting aside our personal lack of acceptance of the gaming business as such, we as experts said it would not work, these are the wrong mechanisms, the economically unwarranted. But once again you only hear yourself, you don't even hear the voices of economic professionals, no, let's accept. They passed this law. It's not working. No one is ready to take, as my colleague Mamka has just pointed out, no one is willing to take personal responsibility for the stupidity they've done, and let's say let's improve the playing business conditions. Now let's look at the parallel laws even today's order of the day. So we want as the Supreme Council again for your initiatives to get into the pocket of the middle class remnants of another law that we, thank God, will not reach today. And here we want to improve our lives for those who are making money on weaknesses or for those who are ruining Ukrainian society. These are their business problems. If they've identified and purchased licenses, and they're doing this, and they're doing it. And you don't have to lie to us about what's going to be 7 billion. In fact, we got less than 700. And in fact, we're going to get a huge legalized evil. We realize that in Ukraine this is happening today, as it was before, in the shadows. That's why "fatherland" is consistently against. And there is no need to improve the quality of life for those who do not need improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u351	Please, Shahov, Vasilchenko. Then we go to the vote. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u352	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, any business has to come out of the shadows, pay taxes, have to fill the Ukrainian budget, and for this money help retirees, increase wages for doctors, teachers, and also help the Chernobyls and Afghans who are left on the sidelines of history today. Second, the gaming business is a disaster for all families. And anyone who plays should show him where he gets the money that he's playing the slot machines for today, or the casino, or somewhere else. Suicides are coming, parental robberies, people, and gamers are going crazy. And only a wealthy person can play, who can afford to do so, because there is no need for mourning in Ukrainian families. Dear colleagues, we have to take care of Ukraine today, not take the last one from people who are going to win, because there is no pay or no work. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u353	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u354	Galina Vasilchenko, Golos faction, Lvivščina. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is definitely not to be voted on, because it significantly reduces the tax burden on the gaming business, which is probably the business that needs some kind of tax benefit. For you to understand, tax legislation has now established that lottery organizers have to pay 30 percent of their income, casinos and bookmakers – 18. And the bill proposes to reduce to 10 percent, i.e. essentially three times. Three times they also offer to reduce the cost of licenses. How are they going to fill the budget and get the 7.5 billion dollars they were counting on? In addition, VAT is collected from the winners. So the local budgets will again be underfunded. And professional organizations such as the Ukrainian City Association are clearly against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-03-m0.u355	The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. Is there a denial? Okay. That's a nice offer. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Organised Taxation and Gambling (registration No. 2713-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:06:36]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of Bill 2713-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:07:11]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
