ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:06:37]] There are 235 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. People's deputies would like to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Gevko Volodymyr Leonidovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u3	Please, Galina Tretyakova. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u4	Dear Chairman, distinguished national deputies, welcome to the start of our working day. First of all, I want to state that our faction and I personally find the behavior of Ukreximbank representatives unacceptable, and I personally demanded their resignation. But to talk about Ukreximbank's inadmissibility today, I think they're going to talk about it today. And I want to talk about the inadmissibility of our Head and speaker's behavior, because yesterday, when we discussed retirement, the reasons were not enough. I want to mention the reasons that prevented me from working as the head of the Committee for Social Policy and the Protection of the Rights of Veterans. First, I want to say that I actually believe that there was a usurpation of power on the basis of 85 articles of the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] They didn't talk about it at all yesterday. 35 with parentheses. 35 with braces means that the head of the apparatus should be appointed by the Supreme Council. The head of the Supreme Council, who organizes the work, has not been appointed since 16.07.2020. This means that the apparatus worked for the personal direction of the Head. The head, in fact, was afraid to run, probably because the candidacy would not have been accepted by the sessional hall. In fact, it is the violation of the Constitution that is fundamental. The second one, of course, is the reason that a lot was said about yesterday, is the formation of the agenda. The "Serial of the People" faction was chosen to make reforms that would drag down a rod that absorbs, including social funds, from the hands that put those funds in their own pockets. It was such a bill that the Head braked, including. The so - called political projects by which the Head sought to be neutral. Yes, I respect Dmitri Alexanderovich, but in his personal qualities there is so-called neutrality. I want to remind everyone of Gruszewski's words, which we are on the street, the name of which became the name of our street. When hiding the Kurds who fought for Ukrainian freedom, he said, "There's great happiness in dying here, in fighting, not deserters, not neutral, not mixed up in a mob of fears that free passengers are trying to slip into a new kingdom of Ukrainian freedom." You can fight, you can have your position, you can stand up for it, but you can't be a free passenger, and you can't betray our voters who want change to be. Our ratings of our party, our President, are only increasing when we're fighting over such facts. I went to Dmitri Alexandrovich to have a debate here in the Ukrainian Parliament, and I think this is our future. And there's more. My faction, it's hard for us, but it's hard for them, the opponents that are there, because they didn't do what we're doing right now -- they didn't do those reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u5	The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy, Natalya Igorovni, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u7	The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u8	Good day to you all! From this high rostrum, I have repeatedly asked the President of Ukraine to stop the pressure on the opposition and its leader, Viktor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk. Today I am addressing the Ukrainian people, you have to know the truth of why the authorities are repressing the opposition platform for life, why they are holding Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedczuk under arrest, why the so-called democratic authorities have closed three information channels under the anti-constitutional decision of the National Security and Defence Council. One reason is that the people of Ukraine have heard the truth, not the tale of President Zelenski, that in Ukraine roads are better than in New York, that we are the masters of sport in the fight against COVID-19, that the authorities of Greens have conquered corruption. But the Offshore 95 scandal showed that the Green Corruption authorities didn't win, and it led it. Let me give you a few more records of today's authorities. On October 1st, the price of gas on the Ukrainian Energy Exchange set a new historical record — Naftogaz sold gas at the price of $ 1440. And that's even higher than the European price. But if President Zelenski had made use of the agreements reached by the PIC team under the leadership of Viktor Volodymyrovich in 2019, Ukraine would have received a gas price of $175 for two years. Let me give you a few more examples. The Ukrainian gas transport system is one of the largest and most powerful in the world. But it risks turning into a pile of metallurgy because non-professionalism and geopolitical errors of power have led to this. But Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk has stood for three years for the idea of a gas transport consortium between the European Union, Ukraine and the Russian Federation, which would allow the Ukrainian gas transport system to be preserved and the Ukrainians would have cheap gas. After fighting the pandemic, Ukraine is at the level of African countries. The tripartite gas consortium, the gas price reduction, the production of its own vaccine, the plan to end the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine -- these are the work that Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk proposed to the current government, but because of shortsightedness and political selfishness, the authorities have rejected these efforts. And today we see the following. President Zelensky and his team are shaping a new form of government that the world has never seen before is the presidential monarchy. Or it could be called an anti-constitutional monarchy, because our President does not want to live by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u9	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilyev Igor Sergiyovich, faction of "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u10	Pass it on to Poturay's Mickey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u11	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u12	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Good afternoon, Your Honor! First of all, I would like, of course, to begin with the harsh condemnation of both my colleagues on our committee and our entire faction of absolutely disgraceful events that have occurred at the Ukreximbank. We are now collecting signatures under appropriate petitions to law enforcement officials, and we believe that all those involved in this shameful history must bear and will be punished in accordance with the law. Now I'd like to move on to another topic that I'd like to address, this is a sad story that wasn't going to end like this, this is a story about a team. When we came here, the "Serial of the People" faction, we were all a team, and we planned to do certain things. We planned to make Parliament's work more effective, planned that there would be a civilized debate here, a real, thorough, deep one, planned that Parliament would work with high efficiency for Ukraine. Unfortunately, the recommendations of international experts, called the Pet Cox Mission, have not been taken into account, unfortunately, the changes to the Rules have been blocked, unfortunately, we have been sinking for months in completely insane manipulation. We were told anti - Semitic nonsense that the Ukrainian land would be bought by Rothschild and Soros and eaten. Have you eaten? No, it's not. We've been told here that we're violating our freedom of speech, the President, the PNB, because people in sub-sanctioned media feel great in the towers of the Supreme Council. This is me saying that when we're protecting the head of parliament who let them stay here, and we're talking about the Rules, I want to remind some colleagues that it's just as difficult to be a little pregnant as being patriots here, and not here. I want to remind you that the country has been attacked, and when the enemies of the country feel wonderful in the towers of the Supreme Council, it's not what we've been chosen here for. So we were a team. At some point, unfortunately, one person, our friend, decided to go his own way. He has every right to do so. But it's not about the team anymore. We're still a team. Maybe someone wants to join the team to the oligarchs, together, by the way, with the other factions here in the Council is not our team. Our team is the people of Ukraine, not the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u13	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Ahtem Chigoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u15	Ahtem Chigoz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! The eighth year comes the occupation of Crimea, it lasts. Some still view the military occupation of Crimea, gang pressure, and criminal pressure on our people in Crimea as a referendum. This is disrespect for our people in Crimea, who are still resisting the invader. For this they are subjected to torture, and for this they are in prison, and they are in very difficult condition. This action of support for the children of our political prisoners is now taking place throughout Ukraine. And it's not just about money, it's about solidarity in this fight. I also urge you to take part in this action. "European Solidarity", in particular Peter Poroshenko, is taking on the help of the children of Nariman Jelalov. And I very much ask you to join this action, it's very important. This support, once again, is very important for our people in Crimea to feel the support of power and personally of our parliament, of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u17	I understand that the word is passed on to National Deputy Guza Igor Volodimirovich, Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u18	Igor Gus, "For the Future", Volinsky County. Dear friends, I would like to stop at a topic that concerns a lot of people from your constituencies and mine as well. I'm going to introduce Volin, and in Volodymyr, and in Novovolinsk, there's a huge problem with the shale of gas. Unfortunately, the hoaxes, which are owned by an oligarch, in this case in Volina, is Mr. Firtash, who has been in Vienna for a year and has been waiting for extradition to the United States, and these guys are just making fun of the population. Now we're meeting in the courtyards of apartment houses with mayors with my fellow cities and Volodymira and Novovolinska, people are screaming. First problem. In the event of even a small debt, what do gassies do? They come to a private apartment, like they're qualified to have a gas leak, they cover up gas for people, they don't ask, they're disabled, there's little kids there that's a problem, they just turn off the gas supply and they go. They don't explain anything, there's no moments. There are more than tens of thousands of such cases. People are indignant because there are different moments, today COVID, people don't have the money, and so on, when even the debt is 100 or 200 dollars. It's unacceptable methods, sorry, some Gestapo, bullying people. The second moment is the work of call centers. People can't get a call on any of the questions, because the numbers that come in on the payer are not clear where they come from, especially the older generation. So there's really no communication between the service provider and the consumers directly. People just lose hours and days when they're in line and they want to be clear about what they need to pay for. That's the wrong story. I want to go to all institutions: the NCRE, the Ministry of Education, the law enforcement structures -- let's put order in, let's not let private deceptions abuse ordinary residents, let's look for mechanisms so that there's no disconnection in private homes on purpose, and let's communicate directly with a private structure, so that everyone who's talking about them will be able to hear clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Guzenk Maksim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Mikhail Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u21	Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Well, first of all, I would like to welcome the decision of the Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Razumkov, that he has lifted all restrictions on the presence of journalists in the Supreme Council Hall. But I only have one question: why, when Ukraine was in the green zone, when we had virtually no patient in the day, did we not take off the restrictions? Why was it that when the committees asked to allow press access to committee meetings, we did not take the restrictions off and say we had a quarantine? Today, when 13,000 people are sick by day in Ukraine, we remove restrictions. I welcome this decision, but I'd like to know why we have double standards, why do we have a simple manager who has to do work become a politician? Why is it that when it's convenient to let journalists go today and show them how good they are, and someone bad, when, God forbid, the red zone, we take down the restrictions? Today, Kiev is at the border of the red zone, we have to understand that. The other one. Why do we have laws, and this is me in front of the opposition, which is very much defending the decision of the "Serve of the People" faction and two other factions to call off the Head of the Supreme Council, why don't your laws go through, why don't they put them in the agenda? Why don't you ask? I have one question: In Ukraine, one year later, he dies. 85,000 people die from the harmful effects of tobacco. From June 1, from Child Protection Day, the speaker of the Supreme Council does not put the tobacco law in order or put it on an impenetrable list. The question is, where are the standards? Why, when we have 2.5 million people in need of treatment, a speaker of all possibilities, because he personally does not want to, he breaks the law. I have a question: do you have double standards, do you have opposition? Then back up. I don't care, I want to work, and I want the speaker not to be a politician, but a performer. Why did the Conciliation Council turn into a political speaker of the Supreme Council instead of a working council? The question is: Why are we wasting our precious time today? And we don't have an order of the day? And when the speaker was asked yesterday, gather another Conciliation Council, let's work, the Conciliation Board is not announced at this time. I don't have any more questions. If it works, well, let's keep doing politics, not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u23	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Skorik Mikola Leonidovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u24	People's MP Skorik, faction of the Opposition Platform for Life. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, would like to consider a few questions. First. On the day that the whole world celebrates the 80th anniversary of the tragedy in Baba's Yar, when there are leaders in Kiev, the first leaders of Germany and Israel, I think it's worth thinking about trying in this room to rewrite history, the manifestations of fascism in our country, the attempts to deny the Holocaust. Because the denial of the Holocaust is a criminal offence in many parts of the world. And I think we have to, the Supreme Council has to take this seriously and make serious conclusions for the country from the point of view of humanitarian policy. The second question. You know, if you listen to what the majority of my people have been saying to me, they've been explaining to society why they've decided to put away the speaker whose fault is that he was trying to follow the Rules when he was on the "Serve of the People" team. I'm surprised that instead of discussing the speaker and how you're going to put him away -- right or wrong, we're not discussing the issues that really bother the country. I'm not talking about the peace and implementation of the Minsk Accords at all, because lately all I hear is the belligerent, pseudopathic statements from the "Serve of the People" faction about how we should win Donbas instead of actually starting the political part process, the political part of the Minsk Treaties. But today, not even this issue comes to the fore, but the issue of the country’s survival because of the rapid and uncontrollable rise in gas prices. This morning I read that the price of gas reached $1,000,600 per thousand cubic meters. You communicate in places with people, hear their point of view from the authorities of local self-government when the Prime Minister, when the President is said to be failing to increase tariffs. How will they not grow? You're trying to transfer the price of tariffs to local authority. They don't have the right funds, they don't have the right financial resources. And for today, you have to tell them the truth about what you're going to demand, and they're actually going to do it, closing down most of the budget institutions, namely schools, kindergartens, hospitals. You have to tell society the truth because there are no steps to stabilize this issue, no suggestions, no proposals to take into account the proposals of the opposition platform for life, the leadership of our faction in the face of Yuri Boyk, to push us away from the Ukrainian gas price.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u25	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Schwacko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u27	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u28	Unfortunately, dear colleagues, we can't discuss drafts today because we have no agenda. Why is the day’s order absent? Because his approval on the Conciliation Council was lifted on Monday. There's no voting proposal from the biggest faction on the order of the day this week. Nevertheless. In fact, an evaluation of the actions of the Supreme Council's management was given by the Supreme Council, removing the meeting for two days, but yesterday we asked to hold the same Conciliation Council and to establish the agenda yesterday, and today we are already working on the drafts. The Conciliation Council is not meeting. Because of opposition factions and the media, we are told that it is not being gathered because it seems to take three days to send documents to those members of the Conciliation Council who are to gather. Three days, although we haven't had a confirmed agenda since Monday. Three days that we have mentioned or not for the first time in the history of this calling. Why, then, do all these activities occur when an antioligarchy package appears in the Supreme Council? Why is Law 5600, which now has 11.5,000 amendments, deliberately prolonged in its consideration? Why? Because it probably brings money to some business wheels, because if we voted 5,600 in July, as we were going to do, the oligarhat wouldn't make more than 5 billion dollars, and that five billion would be made by the state. Why so many questions about 5599 if there are doubts about the decisions made by the Supreme Council in the Hall? Why not put it in order and correct this mistake by removing all doubts as we have, by the way, made other decisions. Why did we raise all this casuistism today? It seems to me that everyone in this House is under the Rules. And everyone in this Parliament is for the Speaker of the Supreme Council to be the speaker of the entire Parliament. But the Rules should apply equally, without double standards, and the speaker should be the speaker of the entire parliament, not the speaker of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u29	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, the MP's "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, two short pictures from history. At the end of the 1990s, in the United States, there's a deep study of the level of knowledge that students in higher education receive. And after such a profound study was completed, a corresponding note was put on the President's table, which he sounded, and it sounded something like that: there is a threat to the national security of the United States as a result of the poor quality of education. What was done after that? There were huge investments, a modernized system, and today there's a country at the appropriate level. Another picture. In the early 2000s, President Yushchenko returns from one of the East Asian countries, more specifically, and claims that he too has seen how quickly this country has been able to reform, the positive shifts that have been due to the fundamental change in the education system. And now to our day. I remind you, the Prime Minister's speech recently, where he stated that the New Ukrainian School, and specifically its teachers, today's teachers have an important state mission -- to raise a new patriot of Ukraine, a young man who will be educated, who will be modern, competitive in this turbulent world. And now I have a question: does the Prime Minister and our government fully realize the need to do this in order for teachers, teachers, to carry out this very important mission? I'm going back to funding the area of Ukrainian education and science. Dear colleagues, we are now working on the budget next year. Let's do everything we can to make decent funding worth paying for our work by creating conditions for our educators. And to conclude again before the creation of a new law enforcement body by the Bureau of Economic Security. I turn to the government on a regular basis. September 25th passed. It takes two months for the newly created body to work. There is no room issue today, no equipment required, no organizational equipment, no footage to be collected today. Let's accelerate this process. Because it's an extremely important body for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Besugola Marianne Volodymyrni, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People". And that's an extreme performance for today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Kostina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u33	Kostin, please, Andry Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we're all in a difficult situation right now. But this situation did not arise yesterday, nor yesterday, nor last week. She had accumulated for many months. We all have a billing plan. And in this regard, there are a lot of bills that are out of various issues that are aimed at reforming different, very important ways of life in Ukraine. As the head of the committee, I am very sorry that the previous agendas of the plenary sessions were formed in such a way that for many weeks the laws that are planned for the billing work were either out of the room or technically they were in the so-called impenetrable part of our agenda. This has always been incomprehensible for me and many other committee heads, because we, as committees, have worked and brought to the Supreme Council Hall those bills that we have worked on. For example, if we're talking about reforming the judiciary, it's not just the laws we passed with you in the last session, it's a lot of other issues that need rapid development. We cannot allow, for example, electronic communications to be sent by court orders to simplify citizens and businesses’ access to justice until we have passed the law. He's probably technical, but he's going to let us cut a lot of time and a lot of our budget for sending court notices. We cannot complete the reform of the single judicial information and telecommunications system, while the relevant laws await their adoption in the impenetrable part. So I really want our priorities to be changed, changed so that we can carry out the reforms that the Ukrainian people expect of us. So I think that the work of the Supreme Council needs to be prioritized primarily so that we can carry out a billing plan. And these bills have to be placed in the passage of our plenary sessions for the fastest possible approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. I've got two breaks here with a replacement for a performance, right, I get it? First, there's a break from two factions of the EU and the Voice. I give the floor to National Deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, and after that, it will be from the "Trust" faction and "Fathership" Shahov. And after that, we're moving to the agenda that we have yet to vote on, so please ask the national MPs to come to the hall. Please, Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished citizens, I've come from this rostrum a dozen times, as well as representatives of other opposition factions, have talked about it and called for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the collapse of the special operation on "vagres." Then we called for a transparent investigation into the collapse of this special operation. We also watched the work of a temporary investigative commission that made a lot of noise, but didn't answer the key question, was there a betrayal at the President's Office? After many sessions of the commission, it is clear that this special operation was, namely, a Ukrainian special operation, as well as a society, that someone had done so that those mercenaries, the enemies of our state did not stand before the Ukrainian court, but returned to the Russian Federation, and perhaps some of them to the Donbas now. And while everyone was waiting for the TSC report, the High Commander-in-Chief, President Zelensky, spoke directly about what he had told President Lukashenko about the progress of this special operation, showing that there might have been a betrayal at the President's Office. I'll tell you what, I've been planning special enemy capture operations myself, and I've been making sure that they're out of uncontrollable territory, and I know how much strength it takes, resources, and sometimes victims to get here. So I now have an appeal to the interim commission of inquiry and to the members who said that, and they said that it was coming to an end. The President's statement is making a new turn in this story. And now it is necessary not to complete the commission, but to start it again and clearly to give the answer to society, why and why the Chief Commander has passed on information on the course of the operation to a country that works closely with an aggressor. This answer awaits the entire Ukrainian society, and especially our army, our special forces, who are now in charge of protecting the independence of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u37	The word is also given according to the statement of a recess with a replacement for the performance, national deputy Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And after that, colleagues, please invite us to the hall, we need to adopt the agenda today. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u38	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I would like to say hello to our country of Donbas. Ladies and gentlemen, wrap up the cold weather that is taking place in the country today. I drove from Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lugansk and even Zaporozhye, and there was not enough time for a week -- thousands of people today are asking you not only to end the cold and the famine. There's no bread in the sea, 10 million people are hungry today, according to your statistics. You're saying today that the type has been reduced by tariffs? There were 90 copies up to 100 kilowatts of electricity, which was December 1, 68. Where are the tariff cuts, please? Why do people today take tariffs for the gas transit through their pipes that they were building, and who will be responsible? Give an answer to those who have lying. Answer people why when a person goes abroad to earn money, he has to pay the fare for gas transit. Why are you closing school today, some "lochdown" done, please? Because for schools, for Ukrainian schools, the price of gas is 35 dollars, imagine! Today, the cost of food, bread, milk, sugar, and so forth has grown threefold. Why? Because it's also the cost of 35 bracelets of gas. For Lugansk, for Donetsk the price of electricity, for external electricity is 5.70. Come on, you guys! Explain why such a price, why people should pay even for those territories. Why is 3.60 price in Kiev today? We have a way out. The experts on "Our Land" gave you Bill 6064, which will stop you from completely shutting off the gas, from the light, from the heat of the people during the cold today. You want people to fit into beds, and then you're going to say that body cooling is going to be the pathologists talking. Enough today, once again, the show -- give people bread, feed people, give them jobs. What roads do you build, will cars ride when people cover these roads in the winter? Since you are raising the price of gas today, people will have more money? 70 billion debt today for the HKG. Who will give this money? What restructuring of this debt? Explain to the people what is happening. The tariff genocide is gone, let people live in the country. Give a cheap gas that is being extracted in the country! Give cheap electricity that is produced in the country! Get some cheap water! It belongs to the people. Monopolies should belong to humans, not to oligaric groups that today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u39	Thank you. On Monday, the Conciliation Council discussed the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council for October 5-8, 2021, prepared by the Supreme Council's Office for the submission of committees, taking into account the proposals made by MPs and MPs. But this schedule was not approved by the Conciliation Council, as part two of article 24 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires. In view of this, since the schedule of plenary meetings has not been approved, it is proposed that the agenda of today’s plenary session be approved and that the issues that are included in the agenda of today’s plenary session, as set out in part four of article 20 of the Supreme Council Rules, are included in the agenda without a vote. You've got a project like this today, you've got it. And for a second, we can look at the questions that relate to the appointment of out-of-order elections, the setting of city boundaries, ratifications and other issues, you have order. From the procedure? Just get out of the procedure then. Irina Volodymyrna, please. And Alexander Sergiyovich, and then we move on. And Yvchenko. Three of the procedure is one minute, and then we go to the vote. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainians, you've just heard four speeches by the majority. It's like we're back in the 37th year, where we broke up at party meetings, the first number on our list, because it seems like he's out of order right now. In fact, it is not available because of the monolithic size and two groups that have voiced a gross violation of the Rules, the removal of the speaker for unclear reasons. I will remind you that article 26 of the Rules requires the removal of the presiding solely for gross violations in today’s plenary session. Similarly, with gross misconduct, the day’s issue of his resignation was put in order. I will remind you that our faction has not yet received the report of the Head of the Supreme Council and the report of the Court of Auditors, which are required to address this issue. And it's because of you, because you ran out when you were talking about Dusty and telling the truth about Greensky's offshores from Conciliation, that there's no agenda today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u41	The word is given to the national deputy Yvchenk, then to Koltunović, and then to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u42	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, yesterday Mr. Poturayev from the Supreme Council's rostrum said that you have a majority and you have the ability to put any bill in order of the day. Mr. Chairman, I wanted to say that according to the latest ratings, the opposition sitting in the hall has more than 50 percent. It's "European Solidarity", "Paternal Parenthood," and other factions, groups, they have actual ratings today. And we ask you, Mr. Chairman, please take this matter into account and put into order the daily bills prepared by the opposition factions. These are tariff bills, these are social bills, bills that regulate gas prices. And today's complex situation, the gas of its own production would logically be given to citizens of Ukraine and entrepreneurs. These bills are supported by the Federation of Employers, by trade unions, and everyone else. Please consider this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u43	Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. But once again, in view of the fact that the Conciliation Council has not approved, we can vote only on what we can. And unfortunately, we're taking the initiative. We'll talk about the next one, of course. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, and then we will proceed to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! We got acquainted with the order of the day that was given out. You can support it, no one's denying that there's a name change, a limit. But I'm against that, for example, and I'm going to insist on discussing that we're taking new loans. First. The other one. We're denunciations of individual agreements within the framework of the SND, which, for example, relate to agriculture. And these are also losses in the national economy. These things I insist that a) be in full or reduced procedure, but in discussion, to at least hear what figures we take, we take additional loans. And as far as continuing the topic of colleagues is concerned. I'd like, in fact, to report that we have a few important moments today that we need to respond to as the Supreme Council. For example, a negative balance of trade. But it's triggering such an impulse from us, it's supposed to provide, as an instrument of import policy, or those laws that, for example, went through the first reading, including what your colleagues in localization did, these projects would already have to go to the Supreme Council in order to support a domestic producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. And Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, then we go to the vote. One minute. All of it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we've been told that we can't make it, that the regulations are hampering the great order of the day. I understand everything, but with all due respect, renaming the village of Passion or Old Curtoria is probably not going to save our economy. I've been giving the Voice the order of the day. You won't believe it, but there's a lot of laws that we've passed along with other colleagues of all factions. These are laws that would now bring you billions of financial aid. And for some reason, even these laws did not put the order of the day in order. So let's be honest when we were breaking procedure yesterday and taking off the head of Parliament, we should at least step forward think about not losing two plenary days right now, with all due respect, where the renamings, to such things, and a little bit of work for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u47	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich, if you don't mind, I want to remind you that all you've said is bills. Only because it was not approved on the Conciliation Council was the project where these important bills and hundreds of others stood. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course I am, too. And now we can only do what we can. Therefore, with your permission, I would like to put to the vote a draft agenda for the High Council’s day meeting. — Sixth Session of the Ninth Call, October 6, 2021. It's given to you, it's starting with the 6114 bill and so on, these are the projects that I've been talking about. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:53:10]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we are moving on these bills that we have approved today. Let us go to their consideration. First decision. You will have before you the draft Decree (registration number 6114), the draft Order for the appointment of the successive elections of the Zajtskie Rural Head of the Synelnik district of Dnipropetrovsk district. Bill No. 6114. Need a discussion? Then please, let's first look at it with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:54:10]] For 252 Decision taken. The deputy of the head is invited to the floor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Me, too, no talking. But "European Solidarity" wants to make a statement. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Zagorujko Alini Leonidivni. Please, Alina Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u48	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! We're looking at the question of the appointment of a non-recurrent election, this is the Bill of Decree 6114. Thus, on September 22, 2021, the Committee on State Authorities, Local Self - Government, Regional Development and Urbanization discussed the question of the appointment of the Zaitzian Rural Head of the Synthenic district of Dnipropetrov. The issue was raised before the Supreme Council in connection with the early termination of the credentials of the Zeitski Rural Head, Horišk Vladimir Dmitrovic, on his own request on the basis of a personal application for headship. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the Committee adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution, part one, part one, part three, of article 194, part one, of the First Article 195 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, to appoint the successive elections of the Zeitski Rural Head of the Synelnik district of the Dnipropetrov region on Sunday, March 27, 2022, by adopting the relevant Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I'd like you to support my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who would like to address this question? Please sign up: two in, two in. Once again, this question concerns the appointment of the successive elections of the Zajtskie Rural Head of the Synthenal Region of the Dnipropetrov region and the need to speak on this matter. Yes, please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u50	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u51	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u52	Mr. Chairman, your honor, we will certainly support the draft Order on Assignment of Elections. But we have every reason to doubt that there will be a real system of transparent, democratic elections in Ukraine. This has already led to 87 counties. That proves it. All the reasons for this doubt are also in the way the spikeriad is being passed today in the walls of this Parliament, which you are turning into a clown. Fellows, you follow the words of President Zelensky, who continues to lie to the entire country, who continues to violate the law and the Constitution, starting with the temporary suspension of Parliament's eighth vocation, which continues to establish an autocratic regime in Ukraine, which continues to destroy democracy and parliamentaryism with your hands in Ukraine. Because today's change of speaker is not about the name Razumkov, it's about denying any other thought other than yours. Yes, colleagues, you can't. The political reality is that any party that once happens to be in power is sometimes held as a minority or put up with opposition. And when you say that you want to change the Rules in such a way that it fits into political reality, you want to actually change the notion of parliamentaryism and destroy it. There is still time to stop, there is time and opportunity to follow parliamentary procedures. There is still time and opportunity to condemn the offshore equipment of Colomaysky along with Zelenski. There is still time and opportunity to stop betraying your constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u53	The word is given to the national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u54	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Please give my word to my colleague Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u55	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the renaming decrees, the change in boundaries, the out-of-court elections -- these decisions that have been passed on every time, and anyone who says they are irrelevant, please come to these communities, to villages, towns, and look into the eyes of those who cannot register their land and other documents, come and look into the eyes of those who cannot choose their own heads of society and have to live with their responsibilities. But unfortunately, I appeal to the Presidium and I appeal to each of us, we cannot block the work of our Parliament, we cannot use the rules of the Rules and at the same time do not consider important bills for the country. In particular, one such bill, which also applies to elections, is extremely important, systemically signed by all factions and groups, my authorship. This is a bill that decides the conflict in laws that allowed, for example, in Kharkiv 70 days not to know that the mayor died. On December 16, Gennady Kernes died, and on February 24, the city council of Harkov took to heart the fact that he died. For 70 days, the community lives without its head, and for more than half a year, elections are delayed and no elections are held. Such bills, which solve specific problems, are already registered, supported by the committee, supported by virtually all factions and groups, and should also be considered. Among other things, today's election decisions, which, colleagues, we should support, because they apply to specific people, specific communities, and not tell you what's more important here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u57	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mamyan Suto Choloevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u59	Please, National Deputy Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the really fine question is the elections of the Zajtsieski Rural Head in the Dnipropetrovsk Region. But let's not forget that the second year went by as unelected at Donbas in the 18th OTG, like almost half a million people of Ukrainians, full Ukrainian citizens, deprived of constitutional rights, guaranteed by article 38 of the Constitution of Ukraine, chose organs of local self-government and be elected to them. If the Constitution guarantees local self-government, then the current "green" government is doing everything to eliminate it as an institution of a democratic society. And how can we then talk about Ukraine as a democratic state? Look what's going on. The Central Election Commission, which does not have its own discretion in assessing the safety component, believes it is pleased to believe those letters from the bad guys of the governors, who, as a basic argument in favour of calling off the election, use only the existence of a seemingly unlikely deterioration of the safety component to the worse side. Friends, but what I'm saying is that there's a third world war and the end of the world that you're approaching, with more than two years in power. This has to be stopped. It is necessary to guarantee constitutional rights and to allow voters to exercise their right to choose and be elected. I'll remind you that this disgraceful ruling by the CEC has been annulled by the Sixth Administrative Court of Appeal, but the Supreme Court has stopped this trial and has prevented our citizens from exercising their constitutional rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u61	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Road’s Mikolaiovich. Please give it to me officially.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Laby Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u63	Michael Laba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u64	Dear friends, we see the cynicism of the spikeriads, which is now, by manipulating, by speaking out, the minutes of the 10 minutes of this determination and stopping the process of appointment. What's going on? The man wrote the statements, the head of the community refused -- we have to assign the following to the next election, in addition to the election. But we're spending 10 minutes here today on this. In 2019 the committee that profiled this issue now asked us for consideration had two hundred unelected elections in Ukraine. Someone's talking about macroeconomics. How will the heads of OTG work? Who thinks about territorial communities when it comes to just setting up out-of-order elections? I think that this situation is constantly when we're starting politics here in the main hall of legislative initiatives, it's a disgrace. Please go back to work and look at this at the pace the committee has proposed. Materials are prepared. Those who wanted to do so needed to be considered by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. And also Sergei Volodymyrovich, please, Shahov. Then we go to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u66	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Today the "green disgusting" is sitting there saying they didn't say they were elected. That's what I'm going to say. Your governor, Haidei, who is robbing a nation that is robbing 22 billion dollars, has completely burned the forest and killed 16 people today! And you're sitting there talking. Go to Lugansk, tell me. They stole a million votes! Close your mouth and act like a national deputy. By the way, one more time. Get your "disgusting" out of Lugansk and run an election. 500 thousand people today are deprived of their constitutional rights, according to Deputy Lukashev, in the Donetsk region of the same misery. Thieves and Thieves! Billions of dollars are being stolen through military and civilian administrations! Have a conscience, I want to say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u67	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask the next time for a speech, closer to parliamentary, to pick. Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? You've been speaking from the "Serve of the People" before. Please take your seats. I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to adopt the whole draft Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the Zajtskie Rural Head of the Synelnik district of Dnipropetrov district (project registration number 6114). I'll ask you to take your jobs. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:06:54]] For 335 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next question is the registration number of Project 6115. This is a draft of the Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Timekeeper’s Head of the Bahmut district of the Donetsk region. Dear colleagues, you need to talk, right? Then let's start with a simplified procedure. Please vote in favour of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[11:07:34]] For 248 Decision taken. I invite you to welcome the Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Aline Leonidovna Zagorujko. Please, Alina Leonidova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the question of the appointment of out-of-order elections. We have order of the day with registration number 6115. Thus, on September 22, 2021, the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Urban Development addressed the question of the appointment of the second-line election of the Timekeeper’s Head of the Bahmut district of the Donetsk region. The issue was raised before the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the early termination of the powers of the Timekeeper’s City Head, Verzilov Dmitr Olegovich, on his own request on the basis of a personal application for headship. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution, part one, part one, part three, of article 194, of the First Article 195 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, to appoint the interim election of the Timekeeper’s City Head of the Bahmut district of the Donetsk Region on March 27, 2022, by adopting the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I'd like you to support my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to sign up for a discussion: two in favour, two in favor. Anyone who wants to sign up, please. The "ES" says they want to speak. The word is given to the national MP of Mary Mikolayovna Ionova, the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyr, please. Only I'm asking, the question is about the extra election of the Timekeeper's City Head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u70	During the days of Jar, a religious community in Donbas, where the United Nations headquarters and who was released in the days of Chief of Staff Dustenk, when our colleague Mikhailo Zabrodsky, a legendary general, and his brothers liberated 70 percent of the occupied Donbas. And that's why in Time Yar, where the patriotic community has to go through an election. And when asked, what was under Ilowaysk? So maybe it's not for Poshenko and Mouse Zabrodsky to ask, it's for Greensky's obstetrician, who didn't take the message four times to the army, who in 14 years instead of paying the taxes that our army has to pay for, dress her up, pick her up, feed her, he just ran away from taxes, and in 14 years he paid zero. If I'm telling false information, there's Yusik and there's a lot of other people in the 95 Quarter, make adjustments, correct our information that 95 Quarter, ten firms, in the most difficult years of the war didn't pay taxes to the state. And you're allowed to ask about Ilovysk after that? Let's talk about the election. Our team held democratic elections in the 15th, 19th. What have you done? On Donbas, you banned the election in 18 locations, segregateing Ukrainian citizens in reality to those who have the right to local elections and who do not. And finally about Ukreximbank. It's all gone. There's another question outside the frame. Yeah, well, what do we now have in the state bank that is funding the so-called DNR? We demand that the Security and Defence Council be held today and that the answer be given there, yes, and what is financed by the best man and friend of Zelensky, who is today the head of the Supervisory Board and the head of the Ukreximbank government.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u71	The word is given to the national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u72	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u73	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u74	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Another very important issue that we've gone to is the elections in Donetskina, and let's look at it more broadly -- the elections in Luhanskina and Donetskina, the areas of part of which are temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation's aggressor, who is fighting against us for the eighth year. And I very much ask you to pay attention to this question, because it's not an ordinary election, it's an election in areas where there's a peaceful life. But it also raises questions in frontal areas where life is not at all peaceful. And another issue is the holding of elections in areas that are now temporarily occupied and potentially held there after the dispossession, reintegration and return of Ukraine. And these three issues need to be addressed in the complex. Because today we hear the call of the populists, we are now hearing appeals from the representatives of the Fifth Column of the Kremlin about the need for elections, including in frontal areas. Should we talk about returning to Lugansk and Donetsk regions in the face of local self - government? Yes, I do. Should it be said that locals should choose heads and deputies? Yes, I do. But this process has to be transparent, this process has to be clear. So together with organizations such as the Resistance, our committee of expertise, Parliament has to work out clear criteria when, under which circumstances, after the moment of reintegration, we will be able to conduct the elections safely in the Ukrainian Ukrainian territories of Donetsk and Lugansk. And these criteria should be consensual, transparent and clear, and only after this election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u75	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u76	Please give the word of Natalia Yuriovna Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u77	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we support this determination to pass the elections in the Time Yar. But this isn't about that right now, it's about double standards. Now that you're in charge of the election, and in parallel you're instituting military and civilian administrations, and you're in power and you're in direct presidential power, and you're in violation of the Constitution, and you're denying people the right to choose their own local authority, we think that in a democratic country, and that's why the European country can't do that. There can be no time when the hundreds of thousands of Slovenians have been deprived of their right to have their own local authority when you introduced the military administration and made such a princely arrangement, the governor’s princely rule, and his overthrows of the head of the military - civilian administration of the city of Slavyansk. There can be no way that one person divides the billions of budgets of the area by completely spreading corruption, depriving people of the right to at least hope for a peaceful, civilian life. There can be no such thing in the country when you appoint some mercenaries who now run the eighteen communities of Donetsk and Lugansk. That's why our team is calling you. Enough experimenting in our country, enough breaking the Constitution. Assign elections throughout the country and allow every community, every citizen of our country to live with local authority, with local self - government, with the Constitution, and with Ukrainian laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u79	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ustenek Alexi Olegovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u80	Good afternoon! Alexius Ustenko, "Serial of the People" faction. There was a lot of talk about offshors and about what they were like. So what I want to remind you is that in 2019, when our team passed, we made offshors, in principle, unfavourable, and the 1210 law that we passed, it adds taxes now so that no one would open offshors. Do you know the difference between the Greens and the Fifth President? In fact, Zelensky forbade the offshore, and the fifth president opened the offshore immediately after the tragedy of Ilovia and brought the money out of the Lipec factory. And don't tell us about them, about the Eximbank. Our team is good at self-cleaning. We admit mistakes, and if they are, we openly say about them. And today the head of the Eximbank wrote a statement. And unfortunately, in 2017, when the UDO personnel attacked a film group of "Scheme" journalists, then, unfortunately, your UDO and your law enforcement authorities didn't find any violations. We can clean ourselves up. Mr. Chairman, I ask that today we go solely on the subject and that any speakers speak with regard to the election. Because if they so strongly support our first issue of our list, then might you be part of the "Serve of the People" as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov, and then we go to the vote for this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u82	What have we just heard, dear colleagues? Every faction from which our colleague came out and stepped out of the rostrum, constructive opposition, the opposition said in favor of the election in Donbassa, in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. Only some of the "ministers of the people" don't hear that today people's budget is being robbed of billions of dollars when 10 million people are starving in the country. When are people going from cold to bed today and then picking up the winter with meat or what, please say? Who will be responsible for the dissolution of the state budget in Ukraine? Tell me, why are you giving one of us an election today and not giving it to others? In Luhansk other people, other people in Donetsk or something? Are they paying you less taxes than you are robbing? So make a decision, already Decree 5637 of Alexander Sukhova registered in August. Take a decision on elections in Donetsk and Lugansk areas – Sevierodonetska, Lisichanska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Ah, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. After this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we are now voting in favour of the election in the united territorial communities, where the election is scheduled to take place in a timely manner. But I would like to speak on behalf of many Ukrainian united territorial communities, especially the city communities, who have asked today to raise the issue of the lack of educational subsidies this year to pay salaries for Ukrainian teachers. Let's solve this question. In urban communities, such as the Hustian City Community (I have been associating with educational people), 14 million subsidies are not enough this year, the Sarnen Society is not enough 24 million this year. And this situation is all over Ukraine. So I'm asking that we look at the urgent issue of making changes to the budget and give the teachers their earnings earned. This is a much more important question than any election in the community in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I propose to the committee to adopt the whole draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Timekeeper’s Head of the Bahmut district of the Donetsk region (project registration number 6115). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:31]] For 328 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, from Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we have, as we know, scheduled for tomorrow to consider the removal of the Supreme Council. According to part three of article 76 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our faction suggests that we consider who will preside over this meeting. When considering the question of the resignation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, select the ad hoc procedure from among the national deputies who did not sign the call for the Head, who presided over the plenary meeting of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Hetmantsev Danila Aleksandrovitch. I recall that, according to the third part of article 76 of the Rules, the question of the election of an ad hoc chairman in plenary session is not included in the agenda of the plenary session, but is decided by the Supreme Council without prior preparation by the committees after the discussion of the summary procedure. I suggest you do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u87	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. But we have two questions to vote on: ad hoc inclusion and candidature. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the proposal of 175 national deputies to recall the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, from office. In accordance with part three of article 76 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a plenary meeting may be convened by the Supreme Council by the ad hoc chairman of a plenary meeting of the National Deputies, who has not signed a motion to appeal to the Supreme Council. The question of the election of the chairman of the plenary session is not included in the agenda of the plenary session, but is decided by the Supreme Council without prior preparation on the committees after the discussion of the summary procedure. Now the procedure is going to be shortened. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, not that it's written there, it's not written there. So, dear fellows, we're having a discussion about the shortcoming. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Krivoshei Igor Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u88	Colleagues, please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u89	The word is given to the national deputy, Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u90	We see again the manipulation of the Rules. Let us read the quote in the Rules: "The question of the election of the ad hoc chairman in the plenary session, not tomorrow, but in the current plenary session, is not included in the agenda of the plenary session, - the one we are holding now, or we will be holding tomorrow and the matter should be discussed - and decided by the Supreme Council without prior preparation on the committees, after discussion of the reduced procedure." It's a matter of tomorrow's session, we can't agree tomorrow on how this procedure is going to go, tomorrow everything will change. I now propose not to manipulate the Rules, not to go where there is no need for oppression. There will be a plenary meeting tomorrow, and if there is a desire, a distinguished leader of the faction, or the head of the corresponding party, which has a majority, he will propose, and we can discuss this. Today, all the steps, all the roads leading to the usurpation of power, the centralization of power and the authoritarian rule, we do not have to do. We should take steps in accordance with the Rules and clearly follow the Rules, if we are to do so, to consider such an important issue as the replacement of the Head of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council is a constitutional body, it is a parliament, and such serious issues must be resolved in accordance with the letter of the law, which is called the Rules. Please, this is a question we cannot vote on today. I insist on that, and I am convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u91	Thank you. It's a lie for Anatolyovich, that's a clue, if you can. Between the day-to-day session and the moment of voting, plenary sessions are held. So during this period a person should be selected in a plenary meeting, which. [[B in m in s a l in]] It doesn't say, on this one, on that one, in the plenary. Let's talk about this. Please, come on. The word is given to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorevich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Heratchenko Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u93	Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u94	Dear Ukrainians! In 2019, unfortunately, you bought a cat in a bag. The cat was instilled in the Ukrainians by an oligarch, but, in fact, it was "sold" by reason of his intelligence as very intelligent, diplomatic. When the cat was put in a bag. I'm on the subject, Mrs. Galino. I'm on it! About the fact that when a cat was hidden in a bag, and you were lying to the whole country, that it was a boy without an outsider, that it was a simple Ukrainian guy from the Quarter, who discredited all politicians, and Razumkov was walking around, and that was what he was sanctifying. And of course, when Razumkov said yesterday that he was disappointed in people and disappointed in their principles, it was surprising. Unfortunately, he didn't name the names of the people he was disappointed with, because it's all you and it's Green. But what are the principles? Interestingly, in what ways did he become disillusioned? In the Principles of Those That Unite You? The envelopes are bringing you together. In fact, you should be united in your promises to the electorate, which is to be honest, and this is not to violate the Rules. And now, really, as the people who know the rules from cork to cork say here, you're unfortunately violating it. And you, Mr. Stefanchuk. You have a conflict of interest because you claim to be Head of the Supreme Council. This is Mr. Korneyenka’s conflict of interest, which claims to be the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. And this is finally a violation of the Rules, because the chairman of the session, which will deal with the resignation of the Chief of the Supreme Council, is determined at this session, not when you think about it. In fact, we've only called for one minute of procedure for those who would help you not to get into red trouble right now. But you know everything, you're lying, you're still breaking the Rules. And Greensky is responsible not only for you, but for this godfather that he put in charge of the Ukreximbank that we gave you to the profitable. Over the course of two years of Greens, there's a loss of 5 billion dollars. And it turns out that now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u95	Replica, Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko, please. Turn on the Cornea.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u96	Thank you, colleagues. I won't call her last name for the word. I'd like to say that we're a little confused here, whether it's European Solidarity, or some other solidarity, or who's your party manager. Because that's the way it is with our Chief of Staff. It's very serious, and it's on the "Prime" Channel every night. But, in fact, I would like to say more, since we were not able to sign up with Mr. David Arahamaia. We can consider this today, we consider that this could be any plenary meeting today, as well. But there has to be a reason. The reason is, yesterday you and I voted the appointment for tomorrow. We can't deal with this question tomorrow, because this is the question that we're going to have to make with you. Therefore, we propose to support Danil Alexandrovich Hetmantsev's candidacy for this position, he is leading committees in a professional way, and his impartiality in this process will not arise exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u97	Thank you. The word is given to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, National Deputy, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u99	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of all of us once again to the threat posed by the spread of COVID. We're already fourth in the world on a day's worth of death, and you're here to draw checkers. The incompetence that had taken place in Ukreximbank's office yesterday must certainly be investigated, and the guilty and guilty who had carried it out, at my belief, the criminal order, must finally be put in jail for the persecution and obstruction of journalists' activities. I'm not a follower. Info, but I will do everything I can to ensure that they have the right to carry out their journalistic obligations and work as they deem necessary and within the limits of the law. Dear colleagues, I understand what's going on here, but have dignity. You and Dmitr Razumkovy have been through two years of work, two electoral campaigns. He was on TV, aging for both Zelensky and the "ministers of the people." He endured many blows, made all the decisions that the President had made. What happened between you is your right. By the way, I want to thank Dmitri Alexanderovich for today's order to increase the number of journalists in the towers and on the second floor. But, you know, I'm just embarrassed to hear today that those who sit in his office for another week, two, three years ago, and now they're insulting him. Have dignity, settle your internal party issue with respect to yourself and that person, and the person you put in charge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You put it in, and no one else.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion has been concluded. And then Sergey Vladislavovich and then we vote ad hoc. And the Gethmans, right? One minute, please, Sergey Vladislavovich and Danilo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, that the obvious violation of the Rules in trying to do this, I think that anyone who wants to read the relevant article of the Rules will not even raise questions about how Parliament should act. At first, we were thinking of putting forward an alternative candidate, but, you know, it seems to me that a better candidate, who is offered as head of a group of brainwashers of parliament and democracy, is even difficult to come up with. And especially after these days, the first and foremost principle of the "batters" of democracy in the office of the head of the Ukreximbank, where the key concept of democracy and freedom of speech were cleaned up at all, began. That's why you're going the right way, comrades.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, please, Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, and then we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u104	Thank you, colleagues, for your grades so high. It's particularly nice to hear them from a man who's been in the Supreme Council for a long time and who's been involved in what's been going on in the country from the very beginning, and unfortunately, she's made an effort to make it right now with the entire team. But that's not what I'm talking about. I'm from another conflict of interest. In view of the conflict of interest on this issue, I will not vote and participate in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u105	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of part three of article 76 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have put to the vote the ad hoc motion for an ad hoc procedure for the election of a chairman in plenary session when considering the question of the withdrawal from office of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from among the national deputies, who has not signed a motion for the resignation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:35:24]] For 234 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Here we are, dear fellows. Decision taken. What, then, will be the suggestions for the chairman of the plenary meeting to hold the question of recalling the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office? The initiative was the initiative of Aleksandra Sergiyovich, the Hetmansev Danila Alexandrovich. There are no other candidates, are there? Are there any other candidates? Who will be, please tell me. Please, "European Solidarity", Irina Heratchenko, please, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, first of all, we demand that this question, you may vote today, but it was discussed tomorrow, during the consideration of the issue. Secondly, we have three alternatives. The first is Geo Leros. He's as expelled from your faction as you are now expelling Mr. Razumkov's team, we demand a vote. The other one. Yuri Koravchenkov, he, you know, set fire to the Quarter, and we never heard of him here. We really want him to vote. And the third. Alexei Hotcharenko. For once, let the opposition hold such an important meeting. We didn't exactly sign for it, we didn't vote for Razumkov, and we're pretty sure. One faction that did not vote for Razumkov is "European Solidarity". We have every right to hold this meeting. Believe me, Alexi won't break. I think both Coryavchenkov and Geo will not violate the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u107	Please, who else do we have? A duck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u108	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, Irina Heratschenko made very good suggestions, but I think the most prepared person in this Parliament is Andrew Parubay to hold a meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] So if possible, he definitely didn't sign the form and he knows exactly how to conduct a proper meeting. So please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u109	Who? All right, guys, let's go. Who else wants it? Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u110	Colleagues insist that Mr. Tishchenko meet, but he is not in the hall. I think it would be right if we were to hold a meeting with a person who did not vote yesterday for the removal and inclusion in the agenda. As far as I can see from the list of national deputies, it could be a colleague and a representative of the "Serve of the People" Mr. Bakumov. So let's put out his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I understand there are the candidates Danila Alexandrovich Getmantsev, Geo Bagratovich Leros, Alexeiovich Honcharenko and Aleksandra Sergiyovich Bakumov. Do these people have self-sustainment? [[B in m in s a l in]] From "European Solidarity" there were proposals, colleagues. Dear colleagues, so. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've been brought in, Leo Bagratovich. All of it. Guys, it's all about to start a mess. Dear colleagues, therefore, have made an offer. I understand that Yuri Korowchenkov claims self-refoulement, right? Thank you. So according to the factions. Factions made proposals. Proposals for such deputies have been made: National Deputy of Ukraine Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, National Deputy of Ukraine Geo Bagratovich Leros, National Deputy of Ukraine Alexeiy Goncharenko and National Deputy of Ukraine Bakum Alexander Sergijovich. You're not claiming a self-registration, you're going to vote, right? You will, yes? Okay. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up for a brief discussion: two in favour and two in favour. Please sign up for a reduced procedure. The word is given to National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u112	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u113	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u114	Thank you very much, Irina Vasilevna. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what the Rules say during the consideration of the matter is clearly settled not only in the 76th and 75th readings, but what this consideration is defined in the 77th, where a clear order of consideration, the beginning of consideration, the conclusion of consideration, the giving of the word in accordance with the Head of the Supreme Council, and so on, and before that question, the matter should be discussed accordingly. But it can only be considered in accordance with the Rules if the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council refused to hold a meeting. In this regard, we demand that the first deputy and deputy explain the reason for refusing to hold meetings. If the first deputy thinks he has a conflict of interest, we do not see a conflict of interest in the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and insist that such a meeting be chaired by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u115	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Mikiti Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u117	Mikita Ruslanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, we see that unfortunately our colleagues in Parliament are turning Ukrainian parliamentary into a parody. I don't know if you realize that you're in the same way undermining the Ukrainian statehood that you're all speaking for. Well, you know, we understand that there's nothing we can do about it, we can only offer a normal, intelligent discussion with different perspectives, we'll do it further, and the citizens will appreciate it. And as one sad figure said in Ukrainian politics, I'm not jealous of those who turn Ukrainian parliamentary into parody. For some of us, factions, speaker decisions are a very difficult personal decision. And I want to say that no one better than Danil Alexanderovich Getmantsev I don't know to preside over this session. Because it's painful. But it's politics, there's nothing personal here, people are making one or the other political choices. Danilo Alexandrovich, as a person of neutrality, will hold this meeting with dignity, honesty, and correctness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, the next Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u120	I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Volosin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u121	Volosin Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, it's obvious that all decency is being violated here, but at any rate to hold, well, a little bit of European tradition, of course, a meeting should lead to, regardless of the virtue or dishonesty of the person we're being offered, a person who doesn't represent a faction that was actually initiating the question. That's absolutely logical and European. And now the situation is happening in Europe while we rename the villages here. Today at 3 p.m. in the European Parliament there will be debates on Pandora Papers, on the offshors. I assure you, I have every reason to believe that Mr. Zelensky will be mentioned there regularly. First. On 9 November, a joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament was held on one issue: corruption in Ukraine. A formal excuse is a report from the European Chamber of Auditors, which you know recently called Ukraine the most corrupt country, but the Offshore Papers will also be there. Thank you to your wonderful best man who organized yesterday, yesterday, the beating of journalists. Christine Queen had to be beaten up by then, because you all clearly understand that the clue. Info has a very direct connection with the respective Western embassies, and they won't forgive you, so to speak. Viola Kramon-Taubadel, a member of the Bureau of the Parliamentary Committee of the Association, one of the most influential people in the Party of Greens in Germany, strongly condemned the attempt to liberate Razumkov, and, of course, directly said that Zelenski should be ashamed of the history of offshores. I told you yesterday and I'm not kidding. Guys, most of you don't have an Offshore, but you'll go as an accomplice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u123	The word is given by Sosun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! It is said that if the situation cannot be resolved, it can be absurd. So I think what we've been seeing in the hall for the last two days is exactly what it is. The situation is now absurd. Because, colleagues, what is the matter with the Supreme Council? I understand everyone's on fire right now about taking down the speaker. I don't understand why they want to do this to such a gross violation of the Rules. You want to record the speaker, you have votes for it. Vote. Why break parliament through my knee? It's completely unclear to me. I just don't understand why the people who are currently in charge of the meetings of the Supreme Council haven't been able to form the agenda. You're saying that we have urgent problems that concern Ukrainians. Yeah, they're worried, we've got cities now, villages don't know how they're gonna burn schools and gardens since October 15th. What are we doing right now, please? We're playing in incomprehensible games and breaking parliament through the knee because someone like that on the Bank? I am now addressing the chairman of this session. Mr. Ruslan, I am asking you very much to regulate the work of Parliament now. What we're looking at right now is a disgrace. The other one. If we are already considering for unclear reasons who will vote in the meeting tomorrow, let us give everyone the opportunity to speak, just as Mr. Gethmansov did. Mr. Ruslan, you've given Mr. Getmantsev the opportunity to speak as a candidate for headship tomorrow. I think it makes sense to give a speech to other people who claim to head tomorrow. But in general, let's go back to looking at the problems that really bother Ukrainians, because now it all looks very, very unserious.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Inna, he didn't speak, he just stated that he had a conflict of interest, he wouldn't vote. Is everyone claiming a conflict of interest? Okay, you're not going to vote. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the voting procedure. No more self-sustainment? Sergei Vladislavovich, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u126	Dear friends, they're not respectable! I think that when a fellow who voted in favour of dispossessing the land of agriculture, in order to bring Russian citizens with Russian passports who are in charge of gambling and casinos to the Office of the President, the person who cleans up small businesses, that's exactly what your parliament will go into history. The first Parliament entered the history of the Declaration of State Independence, the State Sovereignty Act. And I think there's nothing to be ashamed of about those who were in the first, second, previous summons when the country rose up against Russian aggression, being ashamed of us being in these parliaments. That's why I think the best moment of truth that you're doing today is the cleansing of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u127	I also give the floor to those put to the vote to declare their conflict of interest. Yeah? Please, the Gethmans have already declared. Geo Bagratovich Leros, Alexeiovich Honcharenko and Alexander Sergey Bakumov, 30 seconds
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Yes, I intend to declare a conflict of interest during the vote. But I'd like to suggest, you all know that a dog is a human best friend. So I'd like to propose to Mr. Michael Tishchenk, who considers himself to be the president's "bulter," and he's going to be our best friend to direct tomorrow's session. It'll be a better offer. Let's put all the factions on Mr. Tishchenk tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u129	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please, for a statement of conflict of interest. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear friends, I will certainly be able to hold a meeting to consider the issue of the resignation of Razumkov. I think then people will hear all the reasons for this resignation, as Zelensky was afraid of a potential rival in the presidents, as he wants now on a second term, when he promised it would never happen. And, of course, I'm going to announce a conflict of interest right now. And it would be desirable for you all to declare Zelensky, because you have just a conflict of interest, and you have not voted for all of this disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u131	Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u132	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In accordance with the Anti-Corruption Act, I have a conflict of interest, so I will abstain from voting on this issue. With regard to my objectivity, impartiality, I feel that no questions can arise in this room. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u133	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's move on to the voting procedure. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules, I propose to conduct a rating vote. We'll put the candidates in order to introduce them. According to the results of the rating vote. David Georgievich! The result of the rating vote for the final decision will be a candidate who will receive the largest number of votes of support. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] The honourable national deputies for the rating vote shall be the first to run. Please show me. [[B in m in s a l in]] I got it. Dear colleagues, the number one proposal made by the faction is put to the vote. by the initiators and faction of the "Slut of the People", the national deputy of the Ukraine of Getmantsev Danil Alexandrovich. The rating vote. Please vote. [[11:51:57]] For 236 The next candidature, which shall be put to the vote, shall be put to the vote. Show me the factions. The vote is put to the vote by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Geo Bagratovich Leros. Please vote, rating vote. [[11:52:29]] For-42 It's just a rating. The next vote is the nomination of the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexia Alexiyovich Honcharenko. Please vote. [[11:52:55]] For-72 And the last candidature that was put forward is extreme in our list. Voting is subject to the nomination of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexia. Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov. I'm sorry, I didn't write it down. Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov. Please vote. [[11:53:33]] For 118 Honourable National MPs, according to the results of the rating vote, the highest number of votes was won by the candidate of the national deputy, Danil Alexandrovich Hetmancev. In accordance with part three of article 76 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to elect a Ukrainian national deputy, Danila Alexandrovitch Hetmancev, to issue the question of the withdrawal of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:54:19]] For 239. Decision taken. That's why it's announced. Yeah, it's been a while. Let's see the factions. Two factions, I take it, "European Solidarity" and "The Voice," signed by Iron and probably not important. In view of the gross violation of the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules by the chairman of the plenary session of Ukraine as the Deputy Head. First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich, submits a proposal in accordance with part two of article 29 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to remove him from plenary meetings for two plenary days. Helen Constantine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u134	There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, let's continue our work. Who will speak from those who have made proposals? Yes, we're going in a reduced procedure, because this is being dealt with in a simplified procedure. Irina Volodymyrna, which one of you will perform? Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur. This procedure follows a reduced procedure, we may not vote on it. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u136	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, respected journalists! Among other things, I would like to say that it is much easier for journalists to enter the towers where MPs are to communicate with them today. Why are we now making this request to remove Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk from the meeting? First. Because when Mr. Kornienk's leader of the People's Party and the first deputy director of the faction, the proposal for Mr. Razumkov's withdrawal from office was announced, unfortunately, was allowed, I don't know, intentionally or unintentionally, to make very serious mistakes. First, article 29 refers exclusively to plenary meetings. Sadly, Mr. Kornierko referred to the Conciliation Council. As they say, the difference is small, but it's very important. The second question. Unfortunately, part of Mr. Korneyenk's statement, I don't know who wrote it to him, was falsified. Because he referred to article 73 of Part Four, and, frankly, with someone else’s handout, Mr. Kornierko, initiating the matter, lied. That's why what we're looking at is illegal. In addition, we would like to say that according to article 80 of the Rules, and the Rules, this is not just the Rules, as Mr. Zelensky says, is the Law of Ukraine, open this book, it is the Law of Ukraine on the Rules. He makes it clear that this law, who and how he is conducting the meetings of the Supreme Council. This is Head, if not First Deputy, if not Deputy, and only if problems with all three of them, the Council may elect a chairman during the meeting. That's why we think that 80 articles of the Rules, 76ths, 77ths, 29ths, and 73rds are violated. So please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Replica, Alexander Kornienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u138	Thank you to our opposition and European party for providing us with a platform for performances even when they cannot be made in accordance with the Rules. But this is about making sure that the authorities can say their word, very important, for the development of democracy in the country. I would like to remind my colleagues again of the aforementioned party that the past five years of the past Parliament have not exactly been a sign of keeping the Rules. And your entire faction, which consists entirely of MPs who were in the past Parliament, certainly does not have any moral, almost entirely, sorry, certainly does not have any moral right to point us to any minor or even to the treatment of the Rules, not even a violation. As for all your claims, please contact the Regulatory Committee, and he will be happy to consider your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to this question. Are they willing to sign up for two or two? Yes. Please write down: two for, two for, two for, and we'll go through this discussion with a reduced procedure. Vladimir Ivanov, "Serial of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u140	Good afternoon! John, John, John, John, John, John, John, John, John, John, A word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u141	IvanOv is sorry. I've made up my mind, please. Mikita Poturaev, please. You probably don't have a card, Mr. Mikito. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I won't take much time. Of course I'd like to support everyone, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. And to stop, again and again, I'm talking to my colleagues in Parliament, well, you know, colleagues, well, you're looking pretty. That's the show you're doing here all the time. Let's finish and vote on that. And go back to work as much as we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u143	Stepan of Cuba, European Solidarity, please. Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u144	I'd like a word with Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u145	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u146	You know, what's going on in this room right now, it reminds me of a child's poem, yeah, give it to the Russians: it's not written, if it's written, it's not read, if it's read, it's not understood, if you don't understand. That's what's happening to us right now. Because we have the First Deputy of the Head, and we have the Deputy Head. But there's something we don't trust. There is something we do not trust in the Deputy Head of the lawfully chosen one to hold a meeting. Why? Because that's how you want to take off Razumkov so that he doesn't sit there for a hundred percent, but he's got his guy right on the board. Just so he can guarantee this story. You know, what you're doing with the Rules, I'm just wondering why you're so grumpy on robberies, colleagues? Well, you have everything. You have voices, you have a decision that you made there in Rabbit. Why else rape this miserable Rules? Why is it too much to show the country that you're a bunch of homeless people who'll do anything and everything? That's the key question. So if there's a lawyer here, Stefanchuk, who was told to be a brilliant constitutionalist, a lawyer and all that. Well, let's not give a shit about ourselves or our own lawyers. Let's just do everything by the book. And that's actually going to win everyone. And now, well, it's just that the whole country sees that, unfortunately, it's not the parliament of Ukraine, and it's kind of like, "What are you going to do?"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u147	Alexander Koltunović, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u148	Thank you. I'm asking you to pass the word to Gregory Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u149	Gregory Mama, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u150	Honorable National Deputies, Presidium, Ukrainian People! "The Opposition Platform for Life," Mama. I want to address the Ukrainian people both to the hall and to the presiding officer. Please note the date on which we have been voting in the hall for half the day for tomorrow's meeting. Name a date to be understood under the transcript. If the Rules are set out in today's session, and we're already looking at tomorrow's, well, history should know, including the law enforcement authorities, the director of this story on a date. Then it will be true. Other than that, we can do anything in Parliament but the Rules. You can imagine, the Conciliation Council, in three days, everyone is gathering information, analyzing something. So why do you do it? Well, they got together, they wrote the graphs on their knees yesterday, they made a new order. Whom they agreed with, who voted, is a misunderstanding story. So let's cancel that procedure and write on our knees, save our time. Well, you can do the same as practice shows. As far as I'm concerned. We're essentially going to have a faction to support this decision. Why? Because we've all seen the work of the chairman at the session on voting on the famous Oligarch Act, which the President says will raise the economy, and the Prime Minister says that this bill, which will be the law, has nothing to do with the economy. Can you figure out who has something to do with it? But the procedure for the Rules and the violation of the rights of national deputies has already been fixed and will continue to flow into the development of events. I want to talk to the national MPs, if I'm honest, let's take it out, put on an independent person, and let him run these meetings. That she will lead, that Ruslan Alexiyovich will lead – there is no difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u151	Jaroslav Železniak, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u152	I hear considerable indignation at the violation of the Rules by colleague Vadim Yvchenk. Please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u153	Vadim Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u154	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, you didn't hear what the Vice Speaker said yesterday, she said the words of Pete Cox, who has been trying to reform our parliament for seven years. Only then will Parliament be real, not when we shake hands with you, and then it will be real when most hear the minority, and the minority will respect the majority. And that's what it takes for us to understand. Please tell me, do you have, like, a majority vote today? Please tell me, can we carry out all the procedures according to the law that Parliament is to live by, according to the Rules? Of course we can. So why don't we just take it and do it according to the law so that no one can then blame you for what you're removing the Head from, why are you violating regulatory procedures? My colleagues, you know, I'm in Parliament for the seventh year, and I'll tell you that I've never seen such a circus. It seems to me that you and I have not yet realized, or that you are the people who voted for you, you are not responsible for who gives you instructions, but you are accountable to the citizens of Ukraine, you will answer to those who come out tomorrow, 10,000 unions, you will answer to those employers you want to destroy by Law 5600. You're trying to form the agenda today. This is how you shape citizens to feel -- tariffs, social laws and tax cuts, not what you want -- 4 million peasants to tax. And that will be your responsibility, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u155	Thank you. Are they still willing to speak? The factions have already appeared. Please, Sergey Shahov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u156	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, what are we looking at here? Again politics, again politics, again some of your moments you decide. Please tell me, when will people’s problems be solved? When we turned our attention back on and no one answered, who were the liars? Who today will be responsible for the transit of gas in pipes for 3 bracelets of cubic meters? Who's going to answer what's said today, 7.42 per cubic meter of gas is paid, and in all government institutions, the price of 35 dollars of gas is paid? Today, for entrepreneurs, the price of gas is 35 dollars, and for kilowatts of electricity today is 5.70 in the Lugansk and Donetsk region. Again, none of the Servants of the People answered these questions. Why are ten entrepreneurs being skinned today, why are people suffering in these villages, villages without jobs? Who will be responsible for how much politics can be pursued? Build a state today, not destroy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u157	And Ivan Krulko, please, the "Fatherland" faction, and this concludes the discussion, so let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u158	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This morning, when the National Deputies spoke from the factions, most of the performances that were heard today from this rostrum were performances by the "Serve of the People" factions, and they were all speaking in this room, as the Rules have been violated by the Speaker of the Razumkov for these two years. Listen, I have one question, and why haven't we heard a single speech in the past two years about how the Rules were violated when we were considering the Law on Earth and the Land being scrutinized? Why was it not reported how the Act on Game Business was voted in this room, which today essentially brings people back to the casino and takes the last one away from them? Why didn't anyone in this room say that, in violation of the Rules, no bill of opposition concerning tariffs, and "Fatherland" passed such bills and not a single bill, did it put into the agenda? Why did the two trenches all say how good we are and this is the best parliament, and now what's woken up because it's baked? I think it looks insolent, you're a faction, it's your pusher, it's your right, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal of two factions to withdraw from the plenary for two days of the first vice-speaker, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Please vote. [[12:49:28]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich, continue your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u160	Thank you, fellow Members, for your trust. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next question we have is the decision to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Ilinsky of the Winnitsky district (project number 5489). Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss or vote on the boundaries of cities? We're voting on the boundaries of the cities, aren't we? Are you going to discuss it? "European Solidarity" wants to talk. I can't, because now I'm going to be taken out again after 29. So, dear fellows, I'm putting the procedure under review first, and I need to get 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:50:35]] For 234 Decision taken. I invite you to contact the Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Areas of Viacheslav Andronovich Negodou. Please, Vjačeslav Andronović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u161	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ruslan Alexiyovich! You are being reviewed by a draft decree on the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Ilinsky of the Winnitsky region of the Winnitsky region. I would like to point out that, for the time being, the borders of the city of Illinois are not and are not established as legally unbound. This, of course, creates some problems for the city's development, does not allow it to deal with the issues of perspective, the strategy of development. So the goal of the project is to draw the borders of the city of Ilinzi, a total area of 10,000 acres [3,06 ha], increasing the city’s territory by 2,000 acres [2,326 ha]. In line with the project on the establishment of city boundaries, which according to article 9 of the Law on State Expertise on Land-Based Documentation, has undergone mandatory state expertise at the State Service on Geodesy and Cartography. The establishment of the city's territory will first allow for the development of a whole package of urban documentation, including a comprehensive community spatial development plan based on the legislation recently adopted, the city's master plan in new and, of course, to develop a community development strategy. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u162	Thank you, Viachelav Andronovich. The word is given to the associate head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of the city of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u163	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Good afternoon, colleagues! It was on June 2, 2021, that the committee discussed at its meeting the Order on the Change and Set of Borders, namely, the cities of Illinzi of the Winnick district. The draft decree proposes to change the borders of the city of Ilinzi, increasing the city’s territory by 2,000 acres [226 ha] and to establish the city’s total area of 3,000 acres [306 ha]. As a result of the Committee’s consideration of the matter, it agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, a draft decision on the outcome of the review would be adopted as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u164	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, against, to discuss this important issue, please. The word is given to the national deputy Vladislav Mikolaiovich Polak, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u165	Please pass the word to Shah's Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u166	Sergei Volodymyrovich Shah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u167	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we've been going from empty to empty all day. We're going out at 12:00, and people are asking, when are we going to make decisions about small, medium, big business when they stop doing business, picking up ten skins? People who fill our nation's budget, people today demand a report from a majority where they share billions of dollars, hundreds of billions of dollars from people who are in trouble abroad. Why are we looking at some unknown borders in some city today? Why don't we discuss today the issue that "Our Land" has put to the vote in local councils? I call on all parliamentarians today, because there is no majority in the councils, there are different political powers: both the Fatherland, and the EU, and the PIC and Our End. Please make a decision to end and end the genocide by tariff and killing the Ukrainian people. We need to address the President, the President's Office, no longer the head of Parliament, or the head of Parliament, on the basis of where the prices of 35 dollars of gas came from, when your appointed officers in Naftogaz Ukraine paid the price of 1 bracelet of our gas. Why isn't there a gas that was produced exactly 30 years ago -- 68 billion cubes, and today you can't get 13 billion cubes? Why am I going around Kharkiv County today, and the gas well is running in God's house, where's that gas going? Why is the Luhansk region producing gas — where it is located? Give people answers up, don't do propaganda, don't do politics. Build up again, I say, a country, and don't destroy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u168	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u169	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u170	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u171	Hello, all of you, dear friends! We're looking at important issues, and in fact, of course, we support the establishment of new boundaries for the town of Wellenics of Winnitzkin. But what I'd like to say about another city is that there's this town of Curve Rig. It's a really great city, it's got a lot of cool people, we respect them, we love them, we love them all over the country. But as in any city, there are great people, but there aren't very many. That's what happens, yeah, you know, there's even cool neighborhoods in the city and not very good neighborhoods. That's what happened in Bloody Rose. And here yesterday, Ukraine learned about another, unfortunately, villain, the native of the Horn of Creature, Mr. Eugene Metzger, is the leader of the Ukreximbank. Ukreximbank is a state bank, a very large bank. Well, it's for you and me he's Eugene Metzger, and for President Zelensky he's, for example, just Zhenya. The whole country saw him call his wife from Hmielnicki to tell him and give him a commission. And here yesterday, this Eugene Metzger, he demonstrated his qualities: he beat journalists in his office, he broke his hands. Cut him out is a new meme that the whole country hears. Dishonored the whole state. Where did he come from? And Mr. Metzger has a wife, Julia Metzger, and she's a member of the board of directors of another state bank, the Privatbank, and she's a friend of Helen Kravec's from Quarter 95, and it all happened in one place again. And these neighborhoods showed themselves in full beauty yesterday, well, just in full beauty. The new ones fight the way they do. Of course, when the video came out, the speed had slowed down, and they were now removing Metzger, but it was not enough to remove him, so he should be judged. Where does Metzger suspect? This is the person who beat up journalists who took possession of someone else's property, erased their videos. I urge all citizens of Ukraine to see who you brought to power when you heard of something.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u172	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to the Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the Political Party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u173	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” For me, Vitaly Bezgin has presented this issue very fully, so there is an offer to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u174	Thank you. And another word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Papiev Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u175	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u176	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This is certainly not an empty bill. The draft decrees. What's more, the setting of the borders of the city of Ilinians, I've opened the accompanying documents, I'm sorry that I'm not going to speak, maybe on other topics that are more relevant today in the country, but there's a land use issue that's very important here, because the draft act, that's why I've even given SWOT analysis in the accompanying documents, and it's said that this will create favourable conditions for the territorial development of the city, the efficient use of the potential of the territory, and, most importantly, the coming from land pay and other taxes to the local budget that will be used for the development of the city. In this regard, we have the question of whether the land issue here will really sound positive, or is it simply that the local community and the local authorities of the new lands will further manage them according to the new law as they wish? That's why these risks need to be taken into account, given the land legislation that we voted for, well, not you, but the whole Parliament voted, starting at the end of the last year or the 20th year, to the end of the 20th year, and ending there with supporting documents on the circulation of agricultural land. So I think there should be a safety net when we're looking at similar draft laws. And now that people's "ministers of the people" are always coming back to the offshore, I'd like to point out that we have our own assessment of this issue in the Supreme Council. Because it's not just the offshore issue, it's the fact that they blame the country's senior management for withdrawing $40 million from Privatbank. You can think of the cost that came back for the budget. We recapitalized Privatbank's budget for 155 billion dollars. It's a colossal cost for the national economy, it's almost a 20th part of the budget at the time. So from this point of view, we don't have to miss these things because it's about taxpayers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u178	Borrowing Irina On purpose, she raised her first hand from the "Serve of the People" faction, my friends. I'll give it to you next time. Please, Irina on purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u179	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For almost four years, the Illenic community has come to this decision and is now waiting for us, the national deputies, to support us. This is the only community in the Winnitsky region that has developed a new master plan, taking into account the increase in urban boundaries for integrated spatial development. In particular, there is an area about 57 hectares [57 ha] planned for gardening. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. It is also planned to take up many areas for the families of ATO participants. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u180	Thank you, Irina On purpose. We finished the discussion. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the whole draft Order on the Change and Set the Limits of the City of the Illinsky district of Winnitsky (project number 5489). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:02:50]] For 309 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have the next one across the border. Maybe we are. Will We Discuss All Things? Let's talk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I can't. There are people who want to discuss every border of the city. Dear colleagues, we are then considering the draft decree on the amendment and establishment of the borders of the city of Sosnovka in the region of Lviv (project number 5491). I'm betting on the vote to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:03:37]] For 237 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the deputy minister of community development and to the territories of Viacheslav Andronovich Negodou. Please, Vjačeslav Andronović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u181	Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, you are now under the drafting of a decree to amend and establish the borders of the city of Sosnovka in the region of Lviv. As in the previous city, the borders of the city of Sosnovka are not established as legal and unestablished, which, of course, impedes the development of the city. Thus, the project aims to establish the Sosnovka city with a total area of 300,000 hectares [300,000 ha], increasing the city’s territory by 102 hectares [102 ha]. In this way, the establishment of the city will allow the development of urban documentation and a comprehensive spatial development plan, and the urban development plan, and on the basis of this, to develop a city development strategy that will allow for the development of the community as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u182	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Vitali Juryovich Bezgin. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On June 2, 2021, our committee reviewed the decree on the amendment and establishment of the borders of the city of Sosnovka, in the region of Lviv (imposed by Kabmin) (under number 5491). The draft decree proposes to change the borders of Sosnovka and increase the area by 102,5924 hectares of land and to establish a total area of 300,5924 hectares of land in Sosnovka. As a result of the Committee's consideration of the matter, it agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council's Rules, a draft decree to amend and establish the boundaries of the city of Sosnovka in the region of Lviv (imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u184	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, against this very issue of the borders of Sosnovka, please. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Michael Kravczuk, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Yuri Kamelchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u186	Yuri Camelchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u187	Congratulations! Yuri Kamelchuk, Red Cross, Sosniuka It is an extraordinary city because it is filled with a large number of very hardworking people who have now received limited opportunities in connection with decentralization. And that's why the extension of these boundaries would make them better to exist, because in the past, no one thought about it from the previous authorities, they didn't allow it to develop naturally, just by some black methods, covering, for example, the production of illegal "boys", coal and so on, they calculated that they would disconnect from the Red Cross. But fortunately, that's not the case, because when the mines are shut down, the city actually ends up with nothing, and it actually ends up without funding. And it is also possible to extend this area to the inhabitants of Sosnevik and the neighboring villages to survive this city even after the closure of such important industrial objects as the Hope Mine or the previous closed objects: the mine of the former eighth, the seventh "Greatest". If other objects are to be closed, and if it closes yet, God forbid, a enrichment plant called the former Lviv coal company will simply be out of work. The possibility of expanding this area will allow for the opening of new agribusinesses, as well as the creation of an industrial site that will actually help create new jobs for people who do not want to go abroad and who are willing to develop with their families, live where they were born, and use their own land to provide for the lives of their own families. Therefore, I would like to support this decision, for the town of Sosniuk of the Red Cross, it is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u188	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u189	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Lviv, European Solidarity. European Solidarity will support changes in the borders of Sosnovka. This is a certain procedure. But everyone knows exactly how it goes through administrations, approvals in the Cabinet of Ministers of different ministries. And therefore, thank God that this decree has already fallen into the walls of Parliament. It's really a mining area. The shahtar region, where the previous speaker is a major MP. The shahtar region, which makes every effort to make energy efficient, our nation’s energy independentness high by producing coal products. Instead, the majority MP who has just spoken kills this coal sector by voting for the import of electricity. Further, it's like creating a TSC that's supposed to investigate the vulnerability of coal companies, and it's bringing its people into the Lviv Coal PD. The Ministry of Energy did not include the 17 - and - a - half - thousand tons of coal that these parts owned. After the Ministry intervened, they were released and ran. about the above-mentioned "Hope" mine, located near the town of Sosnevika, and tried to climb in there to further strip coal production. Sadly, they failed. And I am grateful to the Ministry, which has listened to my speeches and has not taken part in the theft of state funds. Because they're government mines. The "Hope" shaft, which is not part of the Lviv coal DP, is also a state-owned enterprise. And so now we, as European Solidarity, are going to support the city of Sosnevica and we are going to vote for the change of borders. And the law enforcement authorities have to figure out where 17,000 and a half tons of coal were divided, and...
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u190	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! As we return to the discussion of the Supreme Council's draft regulation on amending and establishing new borders for the city of Sosnovka in the region of Czervonograd, I would like to draw attention to the other side of the issue. Because when we're asked to increase the actual area by 50 percent, that's 300,000. 300 more precisely, I'm sorry, acres of land and increasing it by 102 hectares, we have to understand what's going to happen there. Accordingly, the accompanying documents do not indicate that we will be on these lands. I said in my previous speech that there might be a tax coming on the ground. But I'm interested in something else. For example, in its time after Bahmut (formerly Artemian) in 2016 or 18th, a group of economists were involved in the preparation of a strategy within the united territorial community when the village councils arrived, including I took part in it. But then papers on agricultural development were prepared. Because when you, for example, join the city in these questions -- the question of melioration, the question of drying, if it was there, the question of other intermediate things, the development of animal agriculture, vegetation and so on -- it's all the relevant things that should also be laid down in the relevant economic development papers or in the economic development strategy of the territories. So, in my opinion, it would be very important if they presented these documents, if they were to see the corresponding package of documents that would happen there, if they were to be built there, if they were to be used for agriculture, or if they were to be used for something else. Or for the development of cities, that's a very large name, and we're actually just voting with our finger in the sky. So my proposal, if even now, is to have the next decision to have the reporter, the deputy minister, specifically say whether or not it will be the reintegration of coal regions and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u192	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust". Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u193	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, it's so great today that we're taking the boundaries of Sosnovka for the people. This city was built for miners, according to my colleague Bondar, Kamelchuk. It's very important. And they asked how miners live today? And this isn't the Luhansk region. And once again, we were building cities in those days. Where big businesses have been built, everything is destroyed today, coal is coming from America, from Africa, you're paying in advance for billions of dollars when coal miners, our miners, our workers, don't get paid, you don't actually die. When I get letters from my grandmother's kids who are left to be brought up today, and my parents are gone, the miners are working abroad, and when my grandmother says that they're bathing in the bathroom, then the older kid bathes, then the mother, then the grandmother, then they wash the dishes with that water, and then they wash the toilets. This is how mining families today will save lives. Is that how the miners were valued today? Only the boundaries have to be accepted in the villages? Or should we today resolve the issue of wages and feed people in Ukraine rather than decide what skins you have today? We demand that Bill 6064 be placed on a daily basis that prohibits the disconnection of mining families, doctors, teachers, pensioners from the debt of electricity, gas, and water throughout the country from Lviv to Lugansk, from Odessa to Montenegro. We demand that today we stop the tariff genocide that is in Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u194	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. More? Oh, excuse me, please. They were from us, from the "Serve of the People" faction. Lozinski, please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, as always, Vitaly Bezgin was very comprehensive and deeply presented the question. So obviously that we are obliged to support this decision, because it needs it long ago, in the order of the day it appeared months ago and personally, while in the Red Cross six months ago, people have been asking questions about what you are doing in the Supreme Council, why have our issues not yet been resolved, the development issue of our community? So it's obviously a question for people, it's necessary. But in addition, it requires us to devote at least one day to local self-government in the Council, not one bill a week, a month, but at least to sit down and discuss the issues of local government administrations. In the daytime order: regional development, old age, we already have very serious problems on the ground, the transfer of property, also the big issue of budgeting and the provision of additional funding to the public in this budgetary process to the KNAP. And we've heard about 4 percent of the PDF, that's very good, but Galina Vasilchenko suggested 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a whole draft decree amending and establishing the boundaries of the Sosnovka District of Lviv district (project registration number 5491). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:17:17]] For 313 The next question is the draft Decision on the establishment of the border of the town of the Dangerous Region of the Lugansk Region (project registration number 4488). Will We Discuss? We will. Then I consider the matter with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:17:54]] For 244 Decision taken. Please invite the Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories of Viacheslav Andronovich Negodou.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u197	Your Honour, Your Honourable National Deputies, you are being reviewed by a draft decree establishing the boundaries of the city of the Dangerous Sevierodonetsky district of Luhansk. Here, too, I would like to emphasize that the situation of today's border of Dangerous City is not established as legally not fixed, and it also creates problems, and prevents the development of the city from solving current issues. So the goal of the project is to establish a city line of 200,925 acres [2,225 ha] in accordance with the draft land structure, which, according to the article of the Law on State Expertise, has undergone mandatory governmental expertise. There were replicas, and what will happen on those lands when the boundaries are established. I would like to say, honourable national MPs, that just out of bounds, a lack of legal boundaries makes it possible for such a chaotic, so-called development, and then creates some problems. The very limit of the city gives the right, the legal right, the development and the comprehensive plan of the entire community, the development of the general plan of the community itself, and the development of a strategy that takes into account the boundaries and the whole territory. This will certainly have a positive impact on development. And we have a whole series of changes ahead of us in connection with the new administrative and territorial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u198	Thank you. The word is given to the associate head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Vitaly Yuriovich Bezgin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On March 3, 2021, this decree on the establishment of the boundaries of the city of the Dangerous Seinerodonetsk district of Lugansk was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft decree proposes to establish the borders of the city of the Dangerous Sevierodonetské region and to establish the territory of the city of Vicious total area of 25,000 acres [2,925 ha]. The Committee notes that the specified draft regulation and addition to the project require technical and legal development, including taking into account the provisions of the Supreme Council Regulation on the Establishment and Dismantling of Areas. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council the approval of the draft Decree for Registration Number 4488 to be adopted as a whole. In the event of the adoption of the proposed project, we invite the Supreme Council to entrust the committee with the preparation of the relevant decision to the Head of the Supreme Council to undertake technical and legal work with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. I think our previous question was actually caused by a lot of emotion by a colleague from the Trust Group, because it was about the mining region. I think that when we talk about Lugansk territory, Mr. Sergei will be even more emotional and happy. Thank you for your timely support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this issue. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity". Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will vote in favour of this decree, because for us the city of Pázna is of special importance, it was released by the famous 95 brigade, which was led by General Zabrodsky, but also by Mr. Gerasimenko, who was the commander of the "servants of the people". And that's why it's really dangerous for us. It's a special city. But I would like to remind the authorities that, unfortunately, this same city did not have elections and that the constitutional rights of our electorate were severely violated -- the right to choose local authorities. Eighteen united communities, and not only these united communities include villages in the "syrian" zone in Donbassa, but cities like Lysichansk, Pozna, Volnovah, Happiness, and even in the administrative center of the Luhansk region, and this is Sevierodonetsk, now there's a VCA. And this is about half a million voters who were deprived. Therefore, make a proposal to the committee with appropriate draft decisions and conduct elections in the Luhansk and Donetsk areas. The other one. I would like to say that we call on the authorities to coordinate their actions, to take concrete steps together with international partners on the border crossing. You know that the KPWV is now blocked by the pro-Russian fighters. But to coordinate these actions is not insolent behavior or insolent politics, but to be a result, plus diplomatic work with the OSCE. It's also a fire situation. Sadly, the dry autumn is coming, and no one has been punished for last year’s fires. So it's important to ask that question. And the hottest subject. And if for people when we talk about the line of the border, it's blocked, unfortunately, the authorities of Zelensky are doing nothing to make the line intersect. And that's why Greensky's authority does nothing. But the line across the border is financially effective, and you know, according to the latest reports, you can see that the government bank is taking part in the equipment with the occupied territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u202	The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Ustinovy Alexandri Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u203	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u204	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Once again, all the issues that we are discussing today, which concern communities: both renaming and out-of-order elections and border change, are extremely important issues. Because they refer not only to something amorphous or abstract, it refers to hundreds, thousands of people, and Ukrainians. But back to the question that people raise at every meeting in the communities of Lviv. They require us to have a day of local self-government in Parliament, to have a number of discussions. We have a year, almost a year gone from election to local councils, and right now it's time to see what legislation rules don't work. As far as old age is concerned, what is involved in the provision of administrative services, what is involved in local government administrations, the ability of the communities -- this is now the question of how they were cut down, how their boundaries were defined. People are demanding that we talk about these things today. And what people talk about the most is community finance. Dear colleagues, when we delegated authority to the communities, when we made them responsible for a number of new and new responsibilities, we should provide them with funding. And what I've already talked about today. President Zelenski spoke of an increase of 4 percent in the size of the PDF, which will remain in the communities. Once again, I would like to emphasize and remind Galina Vasilchenko of our Justice Association's initiative of at least 5 percent. This is the pit that we can provide for communities to exercise their powers properly. But in addition, the Clean Water program, the question of sewage, the cleaning plant, the increase in funds and the funding of the CNAP, the other things that the communities are responsible for today, is our responsibility. Thus, even after these votes, we need to move on to a discussion of the budget process in the context of the communities and remember the 1,461 communities of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u206	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Koltunović Alexandro Sergiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u207	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'm asking you to give the floor to the national MP, Shufritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u208	With great pleasure. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am forced to bring to the well-known colleague of the Ukrainian people's deputies another reaction to the very important structure of the world regarding the situation of freedom of speech in Ukraine. It was the Deputy United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ms. Nada Al-Nashir, who presented the 32rd report on the situation in Ukraine at the UN Human Rights Council session, that the closure of three channels as well as online resources had taken place in violation of all international standards and adopted by an independent body disproportionately, and such actions did not meet the need. Today, numerous international organizations of the first line, such as the UN and the OSCE, are paying attention to the whole world, and above all to the Ukrainian authorities, to the usurpation of power to prevent journalistic activity, the principles of democracy and freedom of speech. And against this background, when people need to prove the complex situation with COVID, to fight for tariff cuts, journalists are actually closing their mouths in a different way: and in the one they've been paying attention to in the United Nations, and in the one that happened with the journalists in the Scheme program. We demand today to protect the rights of journalists and to say everything they deem necessary, to conduct all investigations for the sake of the truth for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u210	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Boris Viktorovich, and then to Sweden’s national deputy. And then we go to the vote. Please. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u211	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Today, the question was raised that Shahov was speaking the truth from the rostrum and was named after him. So, Vitaly Bezgin, when you go out to the rostrum, say, "Our country" is used to calling people's names. And that's why I call you, our colleagues who voted, 319 people's deputies, a temporary commission of inquiry led by Ruslan Gorbenko. It was operated by Sergey the Great, Maxim Tkachenko and all the national MPs who fought for the truth, to remove the governor of the Lugansk region, the head of the military and civil administration who killed 16 people. Still a harem of the human body smells in this room. Destroyed the area. And today it is not as our colleagues, the elections in the Severerodonetsky and in the same Dangerous Society have said. Marina Jonah remembered this question today, which freed Dangerous for what? Is there an abomination sitting in the chair of the military and civilian administration today and robbing every Ukrainian? The Lugansk region, the Donetsk region is Ukraine, remember. Myrna, a free vote in the Presidential elections of Prashenko, voted for each of you in the local elections, honorary colleagues, 96 percent of Luhanščina gave up for "ministers of the people". Today, there are only two parties in Rubižnom – the OPCW and Our End. All right, you didn't get one percent. We will, by the way, support the territorial issues of Sevierodonetsky and Dangerous. But make a decision to remove your villain governor and set things straight. Put the bastard in jail, show the people justice in the end. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u212	The word is given to the national deputy of Sweden, Sergio Fedorovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u213	Good afternoon, everyone! Guys, look, I'm basically... First of all, I'm actually tired of the amount of lying that's happening here in this room. But I'll get back to that. Look, first of all, I want to say hi, and now I can't see her, but I've seen Lisa Yasko, who's back from Georgia. Everyone knows this story. Next. About the lie. I'm hearing about freedom of speech here. I'm a journalist in the past with a 25-year-old internship. I'm hearing about freedom of speech from one faction, not name names, but from this side, which voted its own time in favour of the 16th of January laws, which maximized freedom of speech. Now they have become advocates of freedom of speech. I'm hearing from this faction, by the way, a leader I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u214	Thank you, Sergey Fedorovich. All of it. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the entire draft Ordinance establishing the boundaries of the town of the Dangerous Region of Lugansk Region (project registration number 4488). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:32:54]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. There's an offer, I understand? Alexander Sergiyovich Kornienko, right? Motovlover, please. I'm sorry. Motovlover, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to change the order of the law and move on to the issue of ratification. View 0075 and without discussion then vote 0089, 0094, 0108, 0111, 0113, 0119, 0120 and 0123. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u216	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u217	Dear friends, we support the proposal of a previous report on changing agenda issues. But let's take another look at one of the questions that we have today, this is the question of renaming the village of Marmuzovichi in the Bouquet region of Lviv, because the inhabitants of the village have been waiting for this question for a long time. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, please put to the vote. But after that, we're going to review the question of renaming the village of Marmuzovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for Marmuzovich to vote. What, no? Then, please, from the Koltunovich procedure, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u219	Dear Chairman, I'd like you to hear us now, our position as our faction. We're against going through this without talking about ratification. These are extra credits. See, in the first case, $400 million, in the second 10 million dollars, in the third 63 million dollars, in total, are new debts. So from this point of view, yes, they're taking on good things, but we've been talking about where we have an increased guaranteed government debt. The second point is the ratifications, more specifically, the denunciations of individual SND agreements. I also insist on a full discussion of each of them because they result in significant economic losses. When you talk about high-tech industry, manufacturing, jobs and so on, it's all the loss of markets, it's all the loss of our markets and so on. So I insist that we discuss those draft regulations that have been named, this is about ratifications and denunciations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand if there's no agreement, we're going as we voted in the morning. Yeah? Okay. Then we move on to the next question, the registration number of Project 2715, the draft Order on the Rename of the Village of Marmuzovichi of the Bouquet Region of Lviv Region. Dear colleagues, will we have a discussion? Yes, it will. Then I'd like you to consider this with a reduced procedure, and I'd like to make this proposal. [[13:36:24]] For 233 Decision taken. The word is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of the city of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, we were approached by the Lviv District Council about the renaming of the village of Marmusovici. By the way, when it was the Bousky region, it was now the Zoločiv district of Lviv, renamed the village of Andriyuka. This position is based on the fact that the inhabitants of this village are not satisfied with the name given to them by the Supreme Council in fulfilling the requirements of the Law on the Conviction of Communist and National Socialist and Totalitarian, I apologize for the regimes in Ukraine. It is noteworthy that the decision is supported both by the village council, by the council of the communities, and by the district council. I know there's going to be some criticism now. from the representatives of one of the factions. But, colleagues, by the way, I want to point out that in the previous convening of the Lviv District Council, and in the present, your political party is also headed. So the key is what I want to say. When we talk about renaming, even when it's within the decommunization that we support, we have to do it with people's minds. And it's named after Andrey the First, and that's what this is all about. Now, here's to the subcommittee's decision. As a result of the consideration of this issue, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Marmuzovich of the Lviv region should be renamed the village of Andriyuk, by adopting the relevant draft Decree No. 2715 as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u222	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this issue. The word is given to the national MP Rublov Vejacheslav Volodymyrovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, we have dealt with this issue on the committee. And believe me, on the committee, we also heard a public discussion from representatives of the community who came from the village. It was a Greek-Catholic priest who insisted with the community that the village of Andriyuk be named after Andriy the First. And accordingly, believe me, I know that some of our colleagues from other factions will talk about Communist names. But I don't think that can happen in Lviv. Because, first of all, the community is in favour of naming Andriyevka after Andriy the First, and most of the committee have made that decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u224	Thank you. The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u225	You know, colleagues, we, our "For the Future" MP group, have been very quiet in this room for a long time. This is what I want to say to the greatest critics of the Rules: When you criticize, look at yourself. What you're doing today is not a violation of the Rules? Rules one, and critics and interpreters of the Rules tens, if not hundreds. And so many truths. So do not seek the truth there, it is alone. Now on the subject. I would like to say to one distinguished faction that insists on discussing that there are no Communists in the village of Andriyuk. There are no members of the CPI and there is not even a CPI left. So do not hold hostage to the people of the village of Andriyuk. Mr. Vejatrović, in a positive way to you, so do not give him the floor, nor should you conduct a survey among the citizens of this village. The citizens of Ukraine, they are the same citizens, and they cannot be hostages of this situation. We're not dealing with decommunization here, we're dealing with fraud, we're trying to rename the villagers after St. Andrew the First. Let's do it, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u226	The word is given to the national deputy of Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u227	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, distinguished citizens of the Marmusovich district of Zoločov, Lviv district, that is their will and their demand, and their request to the Lviv district council to return the name to the village in honor of Andri the First. In fact, I've been seeing this community, most of them for this change, although for the sake of justice, there's a part that supports another position. I believe that the power of the community is always decisive, and its word must be maintained. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would like to say something else. As for me, this is just the first stage of decentralization, and we're going to be expecting the next time that financially incompetent communities come to power and demand that they join the stronger because they can't keep themselves in power or in the social sphere. I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine from this rostrum today. In the summer before the holidays, Fatherland called out to the government's team, "Give the teachers the vacation money." Yes, but I'm sorry, how did you get out of fourth quarter? Some communities no longer have enough money to pay teachers. Dear Mr. Schmigal and Minister of Finance, come back to this problem, you promised to raise your teachers' wages, and today you can't even give back what's already been approved for this year. Give the subsidy to teaching groups, or all communities, immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u228	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u229	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u230	Vladimir Vjatrović, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, in 2016-2019, as part of the decommunization in this room, about a thousand locations were renamed, so Ukraine finally got rid of totalitarianism on its map. The village of Andriyuk was also renamed the Supreme Council as part of decommunization, as it appeared in 1946. And you won't believe it, but not for the perpetuation of Andrew the First in 1946, but for the perpetuation of Communist activist John Andrew, killed by Ukrainian rebels. In 2016 the village was restored to the historic name Marmuzovici, the name of the 15th century. The return of the name Andriyuk is a violation of the Decommunization Act and the Geographical Names Act. The last law calls the following reasons for renaming: Avoiding repeating names. Today, there are about 70 Andriyovici and some Marmusovici on the map of Ukraine. The return of historical names is a matter of turning away from the historical name. Moreover, the return of the Communist name Andriyuk risks creating a dangerous precedent, and we may soon be offered to rename Dnipro again to Dnipropetrovsk, supposedly in honor of the Holy apostle Peter. You know, there's a lot of talk from this rostrum about patriotism. But I'm talking to the Ukrainians, keep an eye on the hands. Whoever pushes the green button will then return the red name to the map of Ukraine. Thank you and do not under any circumstances support that name.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u232	Thank you. Please, Herasimov, because it's your right, you're back in line with the voice, that's what I understand. Who's who, who's who? Turn Gerasimov on, he'll hand it over. Vasilchenka, right? Please. Give it to Gerasim, and give it to someone. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u233	Dear colleagues! You know, I had the privilege of working in 2015-2016, which was the first years of implementation of the Decommunization Act, and I know very well which violates the city council, and then they can violate the district public administrations, and how they are not now implementing the Decommunization Act. But that's what I'm going to tell you in another speech. And today what I hear in the hall reminds me of the debates of the community, thank God, already in the city of Black Sea. Because at one time the city of Ilchiszk wanted to leave Ilchiszk in honor of the name of Saint Elijah. I think Elijah was not exactly aware of the existence on the map of Ukraine of a city that had nothing to do with it, but still the community found intelligence and wisdom, and today we have the Black Sea map. So, with all due respect to the opinion of the community, but such things cannot be repeated, and the precedent that my colleague Vladimir really said cannot be in this room. Because that's what we're going to do, especially in the southern and eastern parts of Ukraine, we're going to go back to these communist names. Therefore, the faction and the merger of Justice will not support this renaming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u235	Thank you. The presiding officer, confused in the Rules, appealed to the chairman, the head of the Supreme Council, Dmitr Razumkov, and then realized that he could not go in his approved order of the day, although frankly, he had confirmed the agenda in the same way that we had approved it for two years. So two years was normal, and now it's insane. But that's your business. Only people look at us like idiots. At first you got mixed up in the rules of the Rules, I'm sorry, you got the Council's work wrong, and now we're arguing about what Andria is referring to in Lviv, in Andriyevka. But ask these people what they mean by Andrew. That's it. They said they wanted to be Andriy. Where are the commies or the communists or what do you call them? It's as if we're really under this dome, like in the circus. Work should be done on what would be better to live, and they decided on what to call them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u236	Thank you. Please, one more minute, Shahov, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, the decommunization of the streets, we do either decommunization of cities, the names of cities. You're gonna kick some people's ass again. Some people want to, some people don't want to. Or will you take the lead ever since and decommission officials ’ brains? Maybe we should make the gas from the copy that was then, and my parents were alive, and we were just talking about nice, didn't we talk about tariffs? Why don't you put some water on it? Why don't you put the power on for a penny? Why don't you make a 7-piece ice cream, which was fruit? How about 16 copies of bread, remember? And today you're naming the streets when people are hungry. Is there something in the fridge going to happen to people today after they rename your cities or city boundaries? Will people trust you today? In "Our Land," they say there is no trust in you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the whole draft Order on the Rename of the Village of Marmuzovichi of the District of Lviv (project registration number 2715). I can't bet, I can only make that determination, but then let's make it technical legal, let's let them work it out. Okay? Because the name of the area changed. Such an offer is accepted. So once again, I'm putting to the vote draft Decree 2715 to adopt in general with appropriate technical and legal work and. Thank you. Please support and vote. [[13:49:59]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we get through the next question quickly or not? No, I'm good. Let's see the factions. This is the registration number of Project 5571, please. Project Order on the name of the village of the city type Bilmak of the Pologov region of Zaporozhye Region. I would like to vote on this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:50:39]] For 232 Decision taken. I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Vitali Juryovich Bezgin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u239	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, during the previous discussion, we learned that it turns out that in Lviv we have a desire, not to name Andrew the First, but to honor some Communist, yes. And we've also learned that we've had thousands of renames here since the previous appointment, and the problem is not that there was a decommunization that was meant to be done, but the problem is that no one in the citizens asked. And now here we have Bilmak. Bilmak of Zaporez Region, who was correctly deprived of the names Kuibisheva. But I have a question about "European Solidarity," why they don't want to let them name themselves Kamyanka, not Kuibisheva, but Kamyanka. What do we have here is Communist? So, colleagues, we have a corresponding decision from the village council, the district council, the district council, that is the decision of the committee, which, as a result of the consideration, I propose to adopt this decision as a whole and to support the renaming of the village of Bilmak, the district of Pologov, the district of Zaporozhye, to the village of the city type Kamyanka. I offer to support and not engage in populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. The word is given to National Deputy Kasay Kostin Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u241	Please pass the word to Melnik Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u242	Paul Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today in the village of Bilmak - type Polodowsky district (now) The opposition area, which has a population of about 7,000, has been affected by the fact that most locals have not supported the new name of this inhabited site, the name Bilmak. And in 2016, during the discussion of the draft decision to rename this inhabited site, the locals were definitely against the proposed name Bilmak. This situation has been discussed on several occasions in the newspaper Government Courier, Voice of Ukraine, and so on. Also, the issue has been raised repeatedly in the media and numerous collective appeals have been made to the Kuibishev Village Council, the National Memory Institute, the government line, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will point out that the village of Bilmak’s city type was founded in 1782, and it was named just like the Kamyanka, most likely because of the name of the river that flows in the area. I would like to point out that the Zaporozhye District Council supported the issue of the Supreme Council regarding the renaming of the village of Bilmak in Kamyanka. And the main reason for this change is that it was a sad mistake in the name of the village that was made. At the same time, the historical name "Bilmak" does not refer to the geography and history of the village, because the nearby object "Belmak-Mogila" has another writing, and the name "Kalyanka" has a direct bearing on the village. During public hearings, more than 85 percent of the population was named for this change. Please encourage Bilmak to become a Kamyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u244	The word is given to the national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "The Voice". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u245	Klimenko, "Justice." Please pass the word to Lozinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u246	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, Roman Lozinski, the Justice Union. As is always the case with Vitaly Bezgin. The proposal of our union is to move to a vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u248	That's a great offer. Thank you. I give my word to the People's Deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u249	Please give it to Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u250	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u251	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Our citizens are looking at us, and they have a very quiet roof, they can't understand what we're doing here, why we're looking at the issues that are really there today. Of course, the matter of the Stone is very important. I want to remind you how it all happened. And this is how they came up with decommunization, and instead of defining what they were called, they put their names on top. But there was one requirement: taking into account certain aspects of the individual presidencies of the previous Supreme Council, that the names of the new should not contain the letter "r" -- and now all of this is a problem. Dear colleagues, I want to explain to our citizens who are watching The Council. Why can we not consider other matters of the order of the day? Because yesterday, as today, the "ministers of the people" decided to remove the presiding officer and replace the others. For what? Because he didn't seem to have properly established the order of the day, although we've been approving it for two years, frankly. So two years was regulated, and yesterday it became unregulated. Well, we've seen different things. Then, after he had been called off, it became clear that this agenda could not be implemented — another needs to be done. On the other hand, we need to agree to the Conciliation Council convened by the Chief of the Supreme Council, who has been removed from office. So first we had to establish a new order of the day, then change the chairman and everything. And that's why now the country is looking at this idiocy for two days and it doesn't understand, in a state of energy crisis, the threat of a new wave of pandemic, we're arguing here where the communists are and where there are no communists. Come on, Communists everywhere, I want to calm you down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u252	The word is given to the National Deputy, Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, here we like to appeal to what people want. So if you wanted to know what people want, especially in Bilmak, you might want to pay attention to the letters that were sent to you by hundreds of people, including the village of Bilmak. People point out that they have already annulled in court the illegal decision of the village council since 2017 to rename Bilmak as Stone. Rejuvenation since 2020 is now in court again. So I'll quote you if you haven't read these letters. People are increasingly aware that "Bilmak" is an authentic name with deep historical roots. This proposal is also supported by the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory and Lead Scientists, historians of the Zaporozhye region, and the Institute of Ukrainian Archaeography and the Academy of Sciences. The findings of these professional institutions are added to the reference. In view of this, the people of Bilmak wrote that you would like to hear: "Please approach the renaming of our village objectively and at least postpone the decision to the settlement of the dispute in court." Colleagues, is there any reason why we should not listen to these people, the inhabitants of Bilmak? Let us respect both the inhabitants of the village and the position of the professional institutions, not just the decision of the councils. And let's at least, indeed, wait for the verdict. Therefore, the request does not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-06-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt the whole draft Order on the name of the village of Bilmak Pollock district of Zaporozhye district (project registration number 5571). Please support and vote. [[13:59:03]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we won't be able to make it, it's 2:00. Therefore, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
