ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! It's good to see you all today. Dear colleagues, in response to the requirement of more than 155 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. As always, I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green button, it's the first one on the left, using the sensory button. Everyone remembers how the sensor button works? Okay. Are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[13:00:27]] There are 264 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the matter of the day is given to you, you've all seen them. But there are two applications for a break with a replacement for a performance. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We're meeting with you today for the next plenary session. In the country of SOVID-19, in the country, total poverty, the country's tariffs are rising, the country's record housing debt is 81 billion dollars, the country's record unemployment, record wages, and so on. Today, there is a huge economic collapse of all spheres of activity in the country. What do we see in an emergency session? We see the main question for which the hall is being gathered today -- this is a question of a new list of objects that are not subject to privatization, of strategic objects that have been reduced by more than six times. This means that during the quarantine period, we can actually steal strategic objects, some of which are part of it, and others. This is the acquisition that today forms from us a technological, powerful, economic state. This should not be in the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. Our faction, like other parliamentary colleagues, has given their signatures and signed under the invitation to hold an extraordinary tariff meeting to settle the issue of gas component, tariff policy in electricity, heating, hot water supply. All of these questions with bills we have submitted in advance to ensure that the tariffs in Ukraine are at least twice as low. But these questions are not in order today. Moreover, the opposition began to be fought in an absolutely brutal way, in an illegal, unconstitutional way. Today, on March 30, representatives of the Ukrainian Security Service conducted 20 searches. 20 (Conceit!) The representatives of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" are our colleagues in regions in all regions of Ukraine. Why is this being done? This is done to intimidate. This is done to defeat the main political opposition. We state that we will continue to insist that the issue of economic relevance should first and foremost be in the order of the day session, that the issue of social justice should also be number one at the next meeting of the Supreme Council. And to the end. When we talk about the issue of tariff policy, there are specific documents to be considered in this room. If we do not have these issues in order of the day, our faction will not participate in such meetings. We're leaving this room until there's any questions that answer to the socio-economic. And the need for the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u3	Another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society, we understand the importance of today's non-commissioned plenary session, where we will hear a report on the situation on the front. However, before we start, we want to draw attention to the situation that follows the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the 87th constituency in Frankish. As you know, and you probably don't know, I want to say that the appeal is to the leaders of the majority and the Party of the People's Servants first of all that elections have taken place, that the President of Ukraine has declared that elections should take place honestly in the country without any counterfeiting. Elections took place, friends, 28 numbers, and today under the walls of the District Election Commission in Frankish, people are meeting to protest for falsifications. So what fair choices are you talking about today? 28 exitpol numbers, independent structures, the Rating Group showed the winner of the political party's "For the Future" by Alexander Shevchenk. And actually then the election headquarters of candidate Alexander Shevchenk at night ran a parallel count of votes, wet ballots, hand protocols, where 100 percent without any statement of violations, where this same victory is shown. On the same night of voting and counting another parallel vote was conducted by another headquarters of the opponent's representative of the "Freedom" party, Ruslan Kosulinski, 100 percent of the recorded "wet" records and the winner of the "For the Future" party, Alexander Shevchenka. A candidate from the "Slut of the Nation" party claims his victory, claims cynically, without demonstrating any protocols with "wet" signatures, claiming violations of all morals and rights, and electoral legislation. The resistance public organization, the "honestly" movement, didn't find any warnings at the precincts. I believe that today is the second time and it is unacceptable that members of the DVC are standing on the street under the walls of the KVC, and their protocols cannot give up. The KLA only accepts protocols where the candidate from the Servant of the People has won, and our candidate's victory is not accepted, and the protocols are sent for recalculation and recalculation. Friends, representatives of the greatness who are so proud of honest victories, do you want an honest election? Let me see that. Where are your Olympic principles? You were good at winning. Show me what you can do and lose. We demand an honest vote count, and not a delay in acknowledging our winner in these elections by Alexander Shevchenk of the Party for the Future. We respect the choice of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We are moving on to the information of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict. The next order of business is proposed. He was in agreement with the leadership of all the MP factions and groups. Ruslan Borisovich is given 10 minutes, up to 10 minutes. After that, he spoke to MPs and groups. Each faction will have three minutes, according to the regulations. Is there no objection? None. Please, Ruslan Borisovich, come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u6	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Russian Federation continues its aggressive policy towards Ukraine. On March 30, please include a slide, 2021.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u7	Dear colleagues. I'm sorry, Ruslan Borisovich. You invited the Commander-in-Chief into the hall to talk to each other. Or let us listen, or let us give thanks to the leadership and it will take care of its affairs. Thank you. Excuse me, Ruslan Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u8	On March 30, this year, along the state border of Ukraine and in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 28 battalion tactical groups of opponents are being held, namely, in Brynska, Vronezki, Rostovsky, and in the area of temporarily occupied Crimea. But recently, from various regions of the Russian Federation, the Russian Federation's military forces, in the form of monitoring activities during the winter period, have been learning to maintain military readiness and to prepare for future joint strategic exercises, West-2021, are gradually increasing troops near the state border of Ukraine: in the north, east and south, namely, in the British, Voronezic areas and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In general, an additional concentration of 25 battalion tactical groups is expected, which, in combination with existing deployed forces and assets near the state border with Ukraine, poses threats to the state’s military security. Next slide, please. Since 2014, since the occupation of Crimea, Russia has seen an increase in the interspecies force of the Russian Federation, now numbering some 32,700 military personnel. In mid-March of this year, two battalions of tactical groups, with the support of tactical artillery, artillery tactical group of the 7th Plane Storm Division, were deployed at Opuk. After completion of the course, the units were left in the area. Five more battalion tactical groups have been added to the increase in groupings. In the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, a group of Russian occupying troops, the first and second army corps, consisting of fourteen military brigades, regiments and troops, has been deployed to support approximately twenty-eight thousand members of the Russian regular forces in their command positions. In order to train intelligence specialists in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, there are more than two thousand military advisers and military instructors in the Russian Federation. In the area of Rostov, 12 battalion tactical groups are additionally supported with a one-to-two-time readiness period that provides a minimum of immediate response to possible military action by Ukraine. The command of the Russian occupying forces in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk remain a priority: Maintaining the readiness of the 1st and 2nd Army Corpses to take active action, through continuous training with higher levels of combat readiness, in which the issue of both offensive and defensive action is addressed; the accumulation of material and technical resources to ensure these actions; The creation and preparation of the mobilisation reserve through the holding of meetings with the reservists. From the territory of the Russian Federation, the logistical support of occupational administrations continues. Thus, from the beginning of the year, some 19,000 tons of fuel, 335 tons of ammunition, 35 cars, 3 tanks, a rocket fire system, and special equipment have been moved to temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. In addition, I would like to point out that the opponent, on a periodical basis, disregarding the arrangements for a full and comprehensive ceasefire that has been in place since 27 July 2020, continues to increase the fire activity with the use prohibited by the Minsk Accords, of arms, including the use of 122 caliber artillery and minomelets of 82 and 120 millimetres of calibre. Reinforce forward units by intelligence groups and sniper pairs. Training the special forces with the involvement of instructors from the Russian Federation's military forces. Maintain and train contingents in designated directions, including in populated areas and in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, ready for use. Conducting demonstrations at night by moving weapons of military technology. Systematicly provoke the Units of the United Nations to open fire in response, leading fires from populated areas, critical infrastructures, cultural and religious heritage objects in occupied areas. This was confirmed by the shooting on March 26, this year by the Mine Action Group 143 of the United Nations Integrated Training Centre in the area of the area inhabited by the Shuma. Lieutenant Colonel Koval's exchange team, composed of Chief Bruce, senior soldier Haychuk, together with Chief Engineer of the Brigade, led by senior soldier Barnich, conducted a survey of the area for the presence of mines and the de-mining of them from the anti-personnel POM-2 mines, which were set up by Russian occupying forces the day before. During the task of sniper fire, Sergeant Barnic, a commander of the group, Lieutenant Colonel Koval, was shot to death and evacuated as a result of sniper fire. As a result of the shelling, Chief Bruce suffered serious bullet wounds, a senior soldier named Haschuk, injuring an average difficulty. Senior Sergeant Abramovich and senior soldier Haychenko, who arrived to support a group of military personnel, were shot and shot to death. The command has repeatedly taken steps to put an end to the fire by an opponent defined by the mechanism of interaction between the Joint Monitoring Centre and the OSCE, and has decided to open fire in response. After the fire was opened in response, the enemy stopped firing, allowing the wounded to be helped and the victims to be evacuated. I would like to express my sympathy to the families of the fallen military personnel and ask you, honourable deputies, to honor the memory of the fallen heroes of Ukraine’s defenders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. A particular cynicism in the operations of the Russian occupying forces is that sniper fire was carried into the backs of the United Nations military forces from a critical infrastructure facility, a water - pumping station through which water supplies were made, both to the temporarily occupied territory and to the territory of the Ukrainian government under control. The opponent tried to provoke our troops to fire in response to a pumping station to cause a humanitarian disaster in the Torres, Gorlovka, South. With a view to responding adequately and timelyly to the relevant actions of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces interact with other components of the security and defence sector, measures are being taken to maintain the readiness to carry out the task of assigning a designated set of troops and reserves to end provocative actions and to respond to threats that may arise in areas of the state border and in other directions. Strengthening United Nations forces in Donetsk, Lugansk regions, and in the Crimean direction by means of the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which are at various levels of military readiness. The creation of appropriate groups of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to carry out the task of defending the state of the enormously dangerous actions of the enemy, continuously increasing readiness and action in an urbanized area under various weather conditions, and conditions. In summarizing my statement, I would like to point out that the Armed Forces of Ukraine are ready to respond adequately both in the event of an escalation of the conflict in the area of the United Nations operation and in the event of a complication of the military and strategic situation around Ukraine. I would like to thank the members of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for their unanimous approval of the draft Ukrainian Law, number 3553, which is essential to strengthening the security of our state. The aim of which is to reform the mobilization system and to continue the establishment of a military reserve under the standards of the member states of the North Atlantic Alliance, which will enable us to complete the transformation of the military commissioners into regional assembly and social support centres, enable us to quickly engage with the reserve staff in a special period without a call for mobilization, to extend the entire range of social benefits and guarantees to the reserve providers who will be called to military service and a number of other capabilities. Our common goal is to win the war with the aggressor, to ensure lasting peace, to restore territorial integrity, to consolidate the efforts of the entire Ukrainian people. A state in which the authorities care for their defenders, and society supports and respects the military, is not victorious! Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u9	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Ruslan Borisovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up from the MP factions and groups. The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u10	I give the word to Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u11	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u12	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, we support all the initiatives that the Ministry of Defence is proposing to Parliament today, and we will vote in favour. But I'd like to point out that I'm from Luhansk, and I'd like to point out today the moments that are right at the border in the Syrian zone where the troops took them and where they took them. Who will care for civilians in the zone of separation? Why is there no migration today, as was the case in Abkhazia, Georgia? Why does he not care for these people today? Civilians are dying. Second of all, it's about the military. There's this notion of "contusion," and somehow the Ministry of Defense and the MoH made a decision, and they removed that rule -- "injury," they just did "trauma." The injury isn't when the bank cut itself and injured him with a glass. A contusion is a serious injury that should also be taken care of by every military, our state. First, the Afghans were left behind, aid workers, now soldiers who had gone to defend Ukraine’s borders. The "Trust" group is demanding a return to normal and helping people who have been injured to become disabled today. Thirdly, the Trust Group requires immediate intervention by Kabmin on the issue of children. Listen, a million 700,000 displaced people, well, well, when five children are studying in Kiev, a migrant, they're freed from food payments. In my day when I was a child, children did not pay for food at all. And today, children should. there are parents who are still begging for your tariffs, from what's going on in the state -- hardship, pandemic and so on, there's nothing to pay for feeding a child. Donetsk, Lugansk region every child falls under the law of "child of war." The Kabin must intervene immediately and help communities, new communities that do not have money today, to grant grants to the Donbas, Luhansk and Donetsk regions, children should receive free food. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u13	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Sergey Ivanovich, right? Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, what's been going on in the last few weeks on the line, we'll be open, on the front line, it's certainly a dramatic event. But on the other hand, it is a very good remedy for those who believed very much that it was enough to sign a new truce, namely, another ceasefire and the war would end. No, it won't end, unfortunately, this war has been going on for a long time. This war will take a long time, and to win it, it must be fought, and it must be answered when the situation so requires. Therefore, surely we will uphold the proper decision. But there are things the state must react to immediately. First of all, it's necessary for the counter-sniper component to finally be involved, because the vast majority of the losses, including the loss of the non-reversibles that have recently been on the front, are the loss of the sniper fire. Ukraine must respond adequately. Snipers need to work and not look at the direction. The other one. We have to respond to any shooting of our positions. Answer hard and immediate, no matter how someone looks at it in Kiev, Moscow, Brussels, Paris, or Berlin. Because unfortunately, this is our war, we have to fight, and we have to win. And in order for us to win, we have to answer. And I hope, Ruslan Borisovich, that in this case we will receive your support in this matter. Third moment. We need to finally get the system into the mobilisation component. We're finally supposed to have a normal military bill. Finally, we need to have a conscious reserve. Finally, we have to get the military to work the way they're supposed to work, not just put the twigs in the rice. The next moment. It's very good that we've recently had the National Security and Defence Council stepped up. But it would be a great pleasure for her not only to deal with sanctions and not only with the Fifth Column but rather, as the law and the Constitution require, to take care of matters of war rather than to gather and deal with the situation on the front only when we have a hard time. The National Security Council should do so, including in the first place. And the last. This war has been going on for a long time. But if we do not do what is up to us today, it will last indefinitely. And that's why the issue of defence purchases, reserve issues and mobilization issues are supposed to be issues that are primarily to be dealt with with with by all relevant structures, starting with the National Security Council in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u15	Eugene Nina Petrovna. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues! I want to begin by thanking the Ukrainian soldiers for the courage to resist the aggressor. And for the endurance they demonstrate when sometimes it's hard to understand Greene maneuvers, which, for two years, looks into Putin's eyes. And it's time to look into the eyes of the truth, because the fuse of war, because the keys of peace are in Moscow. And the thesis of peace when it's enough just to stop shooting and the fact that only truce can provide peace is thesis wrong. This should be claimed: Putin is a murderer. And that's what we've been talking about since 2014. Now the whole world is talking about it, from Byden to Trudo. I hope that, Vladimir Alexanderovich, you will be able to extract that definition. Strong action is needed. To implement the joint initiative of Ukraine, Germany and France on the road map "road map" of Minsk, with the principle of "security first", which we, together with the Germans and French, emphasized at the Normandy, Berlin Summit in 2016. The immediate implementation requires the initiative to launch a peacekeeping mission on the occupied Donbassy, in line with the mandate of the United Nations Security Council, for two years have been lost. Our team firmly believes that Kiev's position weakens the absence of a direct dialogue between the President of the United States and the President of Ukraine. The reasons are obvious: the protection of the Cologne's Green interests. And I firmly believe that the absence of a fight against corruption and the collapse of reforms here are hidden, the PIN code for this phone conversation. As for action on the front, my dears. We need to get the units back in position from which they were removed two years ago. Once again, countersniper groups must be brought back onto the front line, for more than 26 soldiers killed by sniper fire. We need to take down the limited Indianity of the intelligence groups, re-establish drone activity, re-establish artillery intelligence and counter-batteries, and break down the Special Operations for the Detention of Military Crimes from the Private Army of Wagner, where you didn't sign under a temporary investigation commission. It's you and the reverend members of the "Serve of the People"! I'm sure the fear Zelensky is blocking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u17	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues. Don't insist. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. So say it, please. Out of place, turn on Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u19	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u20	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u21	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, your honor, the citizens of Ukraine! The Fatherland faction now calls on everyone to calm down, especially those who mourned Putin's hands and thanked him. And they've honored every fighter who's on the front, through a radio where there is, and where there's a TV, watching and hearing the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But what we wanted, Mr. Commander, was not just to hear from you, but to bring this room to all the national MPs, especially those who represent power: what is needed to strengthen the security that we can and should do to make the Ukrainian Armed Forces stronger? I'll tell you what. Question number one is defense, defense orders, defense factories. Tell me, which and when are they finally working for the Ukrainian army? When do we finally get this pad out of the corrupt Ucrobanprom? When finally the security modules, I emphasize, will the armored security modules appear on the front? And protect every Marine, every Marine. By whom? But from the snipers who kill our boys. They'll protect our Armed Forces. There are such opportunities for Ukraine. Why don't you order so far? Why aren't they on the front? I know the answer. I don't blame you. I know the answer, because that's the answer in the Kiev office. And the fact that corruption is killing Ukraine here in Kiev, and the boys are protecting Ukraine on the front, that's what we have to fight. And what needs to be destroyed first is an internal aggressor called corruption and TOP corruption. Let's move on. During this year we have honored the memory, indeed we have lost the 21 best son of Ukraine, during this year, our military. But we also expect you to do what we can to help us develop tactical medicine on the front. This year, 21 soldiers went out of their lives through COVID. It's a rocker, not a COVID. What can we do to make effective, effective, accessible, and quality tactical medicine available at the front? Here's what the Fatherland faction thinks is a priority. Please, after you return from your foreign trip to where you are going now, make specific inquiries to Parliament. Defense orders are like that. Medical military, tactical medicine like that. Military hospital repairs, be sure to put every room in Kiev out there. And we know where to get it. Get out of the officers, out of the favors of all sorts. And direct funding to the army. I'm not talking about the first priority, the conditions of service and the military feeding of every military man on the front line right now. Let us resolve these questions and then say that we support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u23	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u24	Dear friends, dear colleagues, you know, in matters of Russian-Ukrainian war, I think there should be no escalation, no resistance in the session hall, as was not the case since 2014, when we all called and recognized Putin as an enemy in this Parliament, Putina, if you like, dwarf, Putin Mem-killer Putin, not today, Peter Alexiyovich, not today's mam, not today. We have every reason to talk about the serious exacerbation of the military-political situation on the front in the area of combat operations being carried out by the Russian Federation. We have repeatedly wondered: ‘ Do we now have a regime of silence that has been declared long ago, which systematically and cynically has not been carried out since summer by an enemy since the beginning of the so - called truce since the end of summer? We've suffered about 20 combat losses, 15 of them since the beginning of the year alone. All this time, the armistice continues to be fought by a diversified-sniper war, with possible replacements of anti-tank mined fences along the roads, so that they work not only on military but also on civilians. We have seen from the beginning of the truce, as OSCE mission observers often closed their eyes to such divergent steps by the invaders who, in the form of teaching, wanted to move towards the position of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. What truce, my friends, if the same OSCE mission has recorded nearly a thousand cases of its violation in Donetsk? As a result of the constant shelling of Ukrainian military positions, civilians say that urgent action must be taken both at Normandy and at the low - working Minsk site. We know that the situation of the ceasefire, the negotiating situation in the Tripartite Contact Group, and in fact, there is no Truce after the winter of the trenches under the Forest. Four dead fighters and several wounded are a new outturn on the front. And Ukraine has to answer it not only with words of sympathy to the families and families of the dead, but we have to answer to ourselves what the prospect of the Minsk track is, whether it has gone deaf because of Russia’s special positions in it and how effective the Normandy format is today. The military-political escalation of future studies in Belarus in September, called West21, should also be a major warning from the international community. We want to hear concrete steps by the executive power towards increasing international economic pressure on the Russian Federation. We support the closed-circuit session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hear both the Chief of General Staff and the Defence Minister on this issue in a broader, closed-circuit way. And I think we're ready for this meeting. At some point, at any time, we'll get together as quickly as possible and listen to the real state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u25	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u26	Please pass the word Besuguliya Mariana.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u27	Insane Mariana Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u28	The Russian Federation has waged an aggressive war against Ukraine for more than seven years. As a result of direct military intervention, Crimea and parts of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions were occupied. More than 13,000 of our citizens lost their lives in favor of Ukraine’s independence, and millions were forced to leave their homes when the peaceful life of the Russian Federation turned into terror and terror. The occupying state is using shelling and sharpening on the front as a means of pressure on us, on Ukraine to force us to take positions in the negotiations. The latter is the escalation of violence and the shelling by the Russian occupying forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the area of the Shuma neighbourhood, which resulted in the deaths of our military forces. It's nothing but another act of aggression. We see that the Russian Federation has decided to go through an escalation of conflict and is presumptuously ignoring its commitments to its settlement, continuing to undermine the peace process and pursuing its solely political goals. There must be no illusions. The Kremlin continues to deny any involvement in the Donbas war despite the existence of undeniable evidence. The Russian Federation is trying to convince the international community that it is not a party to the conflict, that it is an internal conflict in Ukraine, but it is a distorted reality. The ongoing armed aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine is a threat to international security. We must continue to press on the Russian Federation along with the entire civilized world in order to force it to carry out its obligations. Any war ends. This war will end. We must do everything we can to ensure that this happens as soon as possible in a diplomatic way and with full respect for the interests of Ukraine. We call for a global partnership to continue and intensify international, political and economic pressure on the Russian Federation with the aim of halting aggression, withdrawing foreign troops from Ukraine, foreign troops and weapons, fully restoring Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders. Gentlemen, we all know, and our power, and the President, we don't hold hands, we don't hug, we fight, and we urge you to fight together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u29	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Thank you, Ruslan Borisovich, again. Ruslan Borisovich, you've already moved on to the invitation. Paul Mikolaiovich, take it right on. Good-bye. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict (registration number 5312). First of all, we need to include this issue in the agenda of the session. Second, it's suggested that we cut the lines. consider this question by a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to be included in the agenda of the project's day session. Please support and vote. [[13:43:31]] For 294 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:43:53]] For 263 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on March 29, 2021, addressed the issue of exacerbation of the situation in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk areas, such as the massacres by the Russian occupying forces on March 26, 2020 of the positions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the area of the area inhabited by the Donatské region with the use of firearms, grenade launchers, and Minomets prohibited by the Minsk Accords. Yes, the initiator of the acceptance of this statement was the "Serial of the People" faction. Yes, we have been accused repeatedly of not calling things our names, and we have been accused by the political forces, who for years have somehow not called things their names, who have been hiding the war behind the euphemisms. In this statement, we, or not for the first time in the Supreme Council rostrum, openly claim the existence not only of armed aggression but also of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict and it is a perfectly legal and decisive step on the part of the Supreme Council. The correct legal qualification of war in eastern Ukraine means that it is precisely an international armed conflict, that is, a war that has only two sides: Russia and Ukraine, which is the result of Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine. So, colleagues, please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and take a decision on the basis and the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u31	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u32	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u33	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, this statement is called in other words, if someone hasn't read it, it's called "we're worried." Concerned at the level of our colleagues living far away from this country, from the border, and from events taking place in the east. Because we understand very well that those involved in the events, in the wars in the east and in the south are not easily concerned long ago, and they are doing everything they can at their level. Someone pulls a volunteer to the east, someone does hospital work, someone works at their own level, and Parliament should not be easily concerned, it should give a clear, normal, adequate, quality, deep statement with clear tasks, including internal states. Of course, this is the "Serve of the People" initiative. Because we other parties and factions didn't even have the ability to correct and process the text properly. Although we asked, please give us two or three hours, we will make this statement an effective tool. And so it should be. Because this statement isn't just for the Ukrainians inside who haven't seen it except for a laudable idea that we welcome the President's efforts, even though we don't see them at the moment, about how he's moving towards restoring the dialogue in Normandy Four. We should give the outside messenger that we want to go on, as we see it. Because, God forbid, tomorrow after tomorrow, there will be an escalation on the ground, and today, unfortunately, the Commander - in - Command has not mentioned the maritime area that is being done with the Azova Sea. How our ships are controlled, the presence of our naval forces. But about the presence of the Russian fleet and the foreign fleet of the Russian Federation's FSB in Azow. And you know, if you go to Mariupola, you'll see the flag -- the tricolour by the shores, what we'll do next, what our assessment should be. So, dear fellows, please don't pour this foreign policy committee out of nowhere. Give us the opportunity to work and write out statements that were really meant to be a tool for a functioning parliament. That's how it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u34	Timothychuk Vladimir Jaroslavovich. Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we are gathered here to respond to the death of four of our soldiers. I was surprised to learn that after the speech of the commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko appeared here and began to talk about some relationship between our President and Mr. Putin. We only know one thing that bothers the country, that's a hug. This format was chosen by Peter Alekseiovich. And I don't know where he was looking at that time, in his eyes or something, but he was doing it, not Green. I'll remind you that during the tragedy under Ilowaysk, Zelenski did not trade coal with Panamanian offshore. And on several occasions he did not apologize here to the citizens of Ukraine, whose trust he used. I'll remind you that it's not appropriate to use such an excuse as the death of our soldiers as a means of generating political relations and trying to rematch. I believe that the Supreme Council, each faction, must support this statement. We have to respond. So I'm expecting support from each of you, the green "for" button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u36	Replica is Peter Alexeiovich Poshenko. Replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that such as the previous speaker is the voice of the Supreme Council. It is a pity that we have held the line for five years and have not taken up the army and defended every Ukrainian soldier. And now, after the July 27th truce, this year alone, 26 people were killed, because the troops were taken away because there were no divorce groups, because there was no counter-sniper fight that we created. And I firmly believe that right now we need to unite, hold meetings of the Security Council, strengthen the defense, and better shake hands than look into Putin's eyes, looking for peace there, he's not there. And we owe Putin, not the Ukrainian military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u38	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u39	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! You know, people's deputies, I think that those Ukrainian citizens who are currently living in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk when they see that the issue of the survival of the state instead of uniting the Ukrainian Parliament, you are once again using it for some political battalion. I came back two days ago and I want you all to know that it doesn't really match the reality that we've just started out, we've had sniper groups working for six months, we've got 220, 300. And instead of having an immediate reaction, including Parliament, we're just here. But thanks to Parliament's leadership, we will now take this decision. Will it have any serious legal or political consequences? I think all the factions have read this decree, I've read it myself, I've read it and I've read it just now. Colleagues, let's probably change the definition instead of calling on international colleagues to condemn Russian aggression again, once again to welcome the decision of the Commander-in-Chief, the President of Ukraine, the Normandy format we mention, perhaps eventually Parliament will do its job. We're going to spend extra money on the fighters, we're going to look at really military purchases, and we're going to help the army protect our state. So let's definitely vote yes today, but let's do our job instead of political strife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u40	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Everyone in this room and in our country today needs to know clearly, and say, in eastern Ukraine there's a war, there's Russia, an aggressor, Putin, there's a murderer, there's blood, there's blood from your relatives, there's blood from your neighbors, there's tears of women, mothers and children, and there's our guardians with you, who give away the most expensive lives, there's life so that this country can still exist, and you're all, at least, sitting here in this room. Therefore, any fact of aggression that violates international law must be documented and condemned at the highest level. So today, we, the "Trust" MP, urge all of you colleagues in this room to support this determination and to acknowledge that there is a war in the East, an aggressor and we kill for our defenders, for our warriors, and we thank them for their hard work, for their loyalty and for their struggle to develop our country whose proud name, Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u42	Thank you. It's not a replica, it's a motive. Heratchenko is a motive. The riot is motivated, I see. Two speeches with motives, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u43	Dear Ukrainians! The hybrid war requires strong diplomacy and a strong army. Polites requires a hand to break the aggressor's fingers so that he can break the aggressor's ribs. And that's what our team did when they released two thirds of the occupied Donbas without retreating. Two years ago, we heard a fantastic recipe -- stop shooting and you stopped shooting back, 25 dead soldiers just this year. You promised to meet in the middle and take away the Ukrainian troops. And you promised to stop making money in the war, so who's making money now? The question is rhetorical. Degrades the Normandy format, degrades the Minsk process, and three "ministers" national deputies join the Minsk groups, but the channels are focused by the recast barista, which is carried from all channels, instead of reporting today, what have you done in the Minsk process? Where are the freed hostages? In fact, you've also deviated from the road map, you've deviated from the subject of peacekeepers, you've deviated from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u44	Please, the national MP of the Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u45	Thank you, sir! The Fatherland faction will support this statement. Moreover, according to the insistence of the "Fatherland" faction, the text of the statement was a reminder of the Budapest Memorandum, which, strangely enough, was somehow absent in the first version. But you know, sometimes it seems that the members of the Supreme Council are used as diplomatic furniture, and Parliament is transformed into a source of "parket statements." 17 statements by the Parliament of the past assembly have been accepted, this will be the fourth of this call. What happens if God doesn't give another four or more soldiers to die next week, another statement? "Paternality" thinks it's impossible to replace "parket" claims with real, powerful diplomatic work. That's why Fatherland calls for no "parket" diplomatic statements to replace real diplomatic work. We call for a real connection in the name of a strong Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m0.u46	Please prepare for the vote and invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict (registration number 5312). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:59:20]] For 308. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 219, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherhood" – 18, "The Future Party" – 13, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 13, "the Non-Factional" – 7. Dear colleagues, I declare closed the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And let's get right to the next one.
