ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite Ukrainian national deputies to the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, as the national MPs gather, I would like to welcome today with the birthday of Vladimir Vasilovich Zacharchenka, Ukrainian national deputy. To wish you success, achievements, new victories, and all the best for you personally and from your colleagues. Dear colleagues, ready to register? As always, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green button or the first left button. Please register. [[10:05:17]] There are 237 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, please. Dear colleagues! Today the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, 76 years ago the Auschwitz concentration camp was released. Those who were there have experienced trials that God will not let anyone in this room and all over the world face. It is not one camp, many of them, and many have given their lives for defending their beliefs, for belonging to one religion or another. We must remember the lessons of history and do everything we can to prevent such events from ever happening in the world and in Ukraine. Now, I suggest we mention all the dead by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday to speak with the Ukrainian national deputies with announcements, proposals and messages. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u2	Thank you. The honorable chairman, the honourable colleagues, as if everything was quiet, as if all right, no one came to the Supreme Council, and everyone rejoices, but that doesn't mean that people are blind, they forgive everything. The first call you received yesterday, the reverend "Serves of the People", who have long since served the people, is the ratings that the Commission published. You know, there was also a hope that people treated you about a year and a half ago, even a year ago. Fourth, 11 percent of the support is an estimate of what you've done in a year. Our first priority was our opposition platform for life. Our principle of standing up for the real interests of people, understanding real problems, and proposing ways out of them are appreciated by people. How many times have we not just criticized the decision to make it impossible to raise tariffs at this level of income of our citizens? But when we talked about the impossibility of raising tariffs, we showed ways to solve the problem. The first is the national gas. I emphasize the one that belongs to the people of Ukraine. We are 90 percent capable of providing our citizens with our own resources today. It's not the business, it's the citizens who are the rulers of the country, it's the gas. The cost of production, along with the minimum necessary taxes, is $2,000,200. This is the price of gas for our citizens. And that was when we were responsible for this sector and one of our leaders, Yuri Boyko, he was responsible for ensuring that the price of gas was real, accessible to people, of his own national production. In the summer, gas was purchased for less than $100 per thousand cubes. Why are you now offering three times the cost even at this allegedly reduced price? Today, we demand a just treatment of people, a fair price of life, just for the lives of those whom you call yourselves today. You are robbing people today, not serving them, and people have given you a proper assessment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u3	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Yesterday we listened to the Prime Minister's report on both price policy and tariff policy, which is today, which has actually destroyed society. First. We have to understand with you that we received record gas prices in January in the history of Ukraine, as well as other housing-communal tariffs. We only have 9,000 875 dollars in January -- the base price for gas -- and there's still a shipping tariff. In individual regions, we got prices for gas from 10,000 to 12,000 dollars for a thousand cubes. Another important moment. From February 1st to April 1st for 2 months, prices were temporarily set: 6.99 plus 1st of December 79. That means that the price of gas is still going to be 8,000,800 dollars per thousand cubes, which is more than your predecessors had 8,000, 550 dollars. Another important moment. The National Energy and Utilities Commission has increased the tariff for heat generation to 30 percent on average throughout the country. This means that the heating tariff will increase in all regions of Ukraine. And that means that the tariff that today is, for example, in Kiev -- 38.55 -- is going to be increased to a minimum of 50 bracelets per square meter, which is also unacceptable. I also point out to you that I have repeatedly asked you from this rostrum about the impossibility of eliminating the duty rate on electricity up to 100 kilowatts/hours per 90 copies. Today it's eliminated, and we have 1 bracelet 68 to pay off absolutely everyone: both people with minimal fixed income and others. So from this point of view, it's important that the government and the majority offer not only to make it impossible to increase the price of gas, but also to return the tax categories and the tax category to 100 kilowatts/hours or 150, as before, to electricity. Another important moment. Our faction proposed bills a year ago to lower and appropriate formulas: gas prices up to 2.5 bracelets per thousand cubes, cubes more precisely, and 4.7 bracelets per cube of gas. In the first case, we suggest lowering the cost of using the gas rushes to the needs of the population. If the purchase price of gas is 2,841, we immediately subtract 1,000, 400 dollars, it's already going to be reduced price, or VAT is minus 20 percent. Let me remind you, you've been lowering VAT on agrarians, movies and others, these are real fiscal instruments to lower gas prices and derivatives for heating and hot water supply. And most important. The direct supply of gas is minus 25 percent. Let's move away from the Dunsseldorf formula and Rotterdam, we don't have that kind of wage to increase people's tariffs to these rates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u5	Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Speaker, distinguished colleagues! "To avoid crying, I laughed" -- that's what Lesi Ukrainiana, our great poet, said today, can be used to watch Lifetime prepare for the 150th anniversary of our great poet's birthday, which we have to define on February 25th. For less than a month, we should all meet in Novograd Wallinsky, in that garden where she was born, and celebrate this great memorable date for every Ukrainian. But what did we see when, with colleagues and with the head of the district council of Zitomirsk, Vladimir Fedorenko arrived in Novograd Volinsky? That in the family and the suburbs of the forest of Ukraine, where she was born, where her family was, where she spent her childhood, the officials failed to do anything. But they managed to get almost 2 million dollars. There was to be a reconstruction, a renovation of the garden, so that all of us and our families from all over Ukraine could visit and spend a few hours where Lesa Ukraine was born and formed. But instead -- I'm not in charge of claiming that these funds were stolen -- we've seen that no reconstruction took place there. Moreover, the exposure that was to be made did not even occur. Why? Because officials were unable to agree and share, who would do so and who would adopt it. At a meeting in the district government, we heard that only two of the 24 training sessions were conducted. It's a disgrace to us all today. That's why I'm calling on the head of Mr. Vitali Buneck's Provincial District Authority to release Maxim Obšt, director of the Department of Culture, who failed preparations for the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine. I'm calling on the Žitomir District Council to make a personnel decision on the director of the Regional Museum and Museum in Novograd Wallin Forest of Ukraine, and I want to point out that we're not going to let this date go to a decent level today. So, with the head of the Vladimir Fedorenko District Council, we have addressed the folk artist Anatoly Haydamaka, and today, with our own efforts, without budget, we are correcting this situation, and 150 years from the date of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine will be marked at a worthy level. But the guilty must bear responsibility for this failure and for this disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u7	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u8	Scorch, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the so - called Law on the Peoples of Ukraine was passed in this Hall, which, by its contents, is absolutely not the Law on Nationality. You've decided that in this way, I'm addressing the authorities first, you'll be able to ask the people of Ukraine what they're worried about and how to solve some of the issues that are life-threatening to the country and to our citizens. I think you need to come back for a year, two years ago and mention your election promises. Those elections, presidential elections and parliamentary elections were in fact a referendum with the Ukrainian people, which the Ukrainian people require and what they expect from the new authorities. It was a question of peace, it was a question of tariff cuts, it was a question of revitalizing the economic life of our nation, it was a question of social protection for our citizens. Unfortunately, none of these election promises have been fulfilled. And the question that is now particularly acute is the question of tariffs, you have to understand that people just can't survive. To be honest, you know, I was very embarrassed to hear the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. I don't think it's a speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in any form or context, because I think Mr. Schmigal should mention that he is the head of executive power in the state, and he shouldn't just write a post in Facebook with his own perspective on how to deal with some of the issues in the state, which should be solved. It's just that my colleagues at the Opposition Platform for Life have made clear the ways that tariff issues should be resolved. It's really a return to the price of the cost of Ukrainian gas, and again, I'll mention, in this room, when one of the predecessors of today's Prime Minister, Mr. Groissman, was asked why we couldn't set the price at a cost level, he said, "we're going to invest in new crops." We have to invest in increasing the production of Ukrainian gas. Now you're assigning, you're planning on assigning a person this week to the First Vice Prime Minister, the Energy Minister who was in charge of this area. Not only have we not increased, but we have actually reduced the production of our own gas and there are no new crops in these years. We have to understand that in order to lower the price of gas, we have to recognize to the Ukrainian people that, apart from the gas of our own production, there is Russian gas and no other gas, and no European gas we buy, we overpay the so-called European partners for it, and we actually buy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u9	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You know that the Referendum Act was passed yesterday. Well, according to our expert estimates, under this Referendum Act, ordinary people in the country will not be able to hold any referendum, because there are bureaucratic procedures that will not allow people to do so. But people in this situation are not alone. I want to make a statement right now that our team is practically starting to get side by side with society tomorrow, and we're initiating a five-question referendum with the people. Question number one is Ukrainian gas and nuclear power with 30 percent profitability to give to Ukrainian citizens. The second question is the question of land, "no is the sale of agricultural land." Question three. This is about selling strategic property: our pipelines, our railways, the Crucifixion and so on. We're not going to let you do this, whatever you're trying to do. The fourth question is marijuana. We'll ask people if they're willing to legalize drugs hard enough in Ukraine. And lastly, the fifth question is the game business. I want to call now on all the political forces that do not share this policy with the people, which is currently being pursued. And you realize that if 70 percent of people today are polling all rating agencies, agencies think that the country is moving in the wrong direction, that means that decisions are made against the will of the people. Thus, the bad Referendum Law has been passed, but we will try to hold referendums on five issues as a force of perpetuity with the people. And I want to invite all the political forces that share the need to hold these referendums to join forces. Please tell me, how many political battles, confrontations, scabs, lashes will be the essence of Ukrainian politics? We have to put an end to this. And if we can in the East, in the West, in the Center unite people and ask them these five questions of answers, we will already solve a large part of the problems that rob Ukraine of the future and people of a happy life. That is why we are open to discussions, to unifying our efforts, to working together. And I'm talking to people right now. You're not alone. Without referendums, we're going to be breaking your interests, and referendums can put a dot on the whole of this mess that's been going on in Ukraine for the last seven years. And that's why we're doing it!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u11	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna Lesja Volodymyrna Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u12	Good morning, colleagues and all the Ukrainians who are now watching what is happening in the country. And that's what's going on. Our government continues to play dangerous shifts that have nothing to do with ensuring the interests of citizens and have everything to do with ensuring the unhealthy desire of officials for jobs and money that can be earned in these jobs. And that's the only way to explain the logic of the transfer of management of Ukrainian forests, rivers, ponds and fish resources from already, thank God, the working Ministry of Ecology to just the newly created Ministry of Agrarian Politics, which is going to be doing exactly what it is to do for a year, and whatever it is, but certainly not with its direct functions of shaping state policy. One thing we need to understand is the subordination of the State, the State and the State Department of the Ministry of Environmental Protection -- it's not just another decision to make with the finger in the sky, it's the embodiment of one of the few strategic visions of our nation's development. Today, the primary objective of these three structures is to ensure the protection, sustainable development and reproduction of water, forest and land resources, and to care for biodiversity. What's the point? But so that people in the country can breathe and drink, so that the air and water are not so poisonous. The work of these three agencies is certainly closely linked to the activities of the Ministry of the Environment, just as it is in most countries of the European Union that we are equal to. And what's more, the ecologicalization of water use, forestry and a whole range of processes in the country are the Euro-integration conditions that we have already begun to do today. The return of water, forestry and fishing agencies to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics is a step in the Soviet past that the government somehow wants to do. Because it was in the Soviet Union that forests and water were involved in structures that had nothing to do with their conservation and that had nothing to do with the exploitation of nature as the cheapest commodity. In the sad historical past, we had, for example, the Ministry of Forestry Paper and Woodworking. Where's the forest conservation, where's the restoration? Nowhere. And so it will be now if this transmission and this subordination do happen. And let's talk about the consequences, because they always are. In the sphere of ecology, they manifest themselves, indeed, not immediately, but they affect our lives and our health, the lives and health of our children. The result of the illiterate management of natural resources was last year’s floods that flooded Western Ukraine and caused losses of 4 billion dollars to Ukrainians and the state. And now, colleagues, there's a very obvious situation where officials are just playing with the change of seat belts. And I'm addressing the Prime Minister today, today I'm addressing everything in Kabmin and you: let's stop this crime, let's stop this broadcast that's not going to happen. I thank you for your attention and wish us all a fruitful day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u13	Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich. Artem Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! Yesterday we talked about the terrible events in Harkow. Sadly, a similar tragedy took place in Odessa on the evening of January 17, when a fire broke out in a house on the street of the Shrine, where the hostel was located. As a result, two people died and two others were sent to the hospital. More than ten people who had been evacuated had lost their belongings. After the evacuation, people were sent to another hotel, but that same day at 12 o'clock, people were left on the street with no food, no livelihood. People were unable to contact local authorities. I remind you that during this period in Ukraine, it was extremely cold. And we can imagine how people felt when they just walked out of a burning house a few hours ago and ran out of stuff, food, and money. But thanks to the carefree Odessa, evacuated people now have warmth, shelter, and protection. Not only is it the inaction of the local authorities, but it is also the harsh language of the mayor who claimed that the hostel at the Shrine was a brothel, so the people who were there who were affected would not help him. I remind you that last year, after a fire at Truhanov's Economics College, he was aggressively communicating with volunteers, offering to lose weight. It's probably an innovative approach to solving extraordinary situations in the city -- talking nonsense and insulting people. Victoria Camp, Tokyo Star Hotel, Economics College, posthumous hostel -- 40 dead and hundreds injured. How many more deaths would it take to force the local authorities, led by Hennadi Truhanov, to assume their direct responsibilities instead of robbing and charging their own pockets? Thank you to all the public organizations, the volunteer movements that are helping people in the plight of Odessa. Dear colleagues, I now propose to honor the moment of silence for the victims of the Kharkiv and Odessa fire. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u15	Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. Yesterday we all heard the Prime Minister's report on how well the struggle against COVID-19 is going in our country. And this is another pyar that is now offering power to our people in Ukraine. We know that Ukraine is one of the most backward countries that has not yet begun vaccination in our country. And this is the only country in Europe that has stopped at the last place on this issue. To date, we know that almost 30 percent of the population has been vaccinated in Israel. And worst of all, our Ukrainians have already begun vaccinations free of charge in Poland. Then the question to our government is, where are we today, if there is no vaccine in our country at all. Our government's programme is offered over the next two years, in 2021-2022, to conduct 50 percent of the vaccination of the population of Ukraine. What about others, and when will they receive their vaccine? How can we explain this to retirees who have been waiting perhaps for the last years of this vaccine to come out? What are we going to tell the disabled? What will we say to those who serve in their positions today, doctors, police officers, and others who go out to meet people when we are able to give them the vaccine that may preserve their lives and their health? In general, I think that the question of all of us, the question of the deputies of the Supreme Council, is to push the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve this issue so that we can have almost 50 percent of the vaccination among the population of Ukraine this year. Then the people will hear our indifference to Parliament, and I think we will be able to save the lives of not one hundred Ukrainians and allow people to go out and communicate freely with each other. Thank you for your support. I hope we hear each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u17	Kachura National Deputy, please. Alexander Kachura.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u18	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, I now hold the payments that people send me and that have indignant the entire Ukrainian society. People, when choosing a new parliament, thought that life would be a little better. Many politicians and officials have been able to rest at the resorts, but the children and grandchildren of ordinary people have no bread. Retired men have forgotten how to taste milk and meat; they cannot buy their own basics; they cannot buy their own medicine. At a time when in some countries people’s public services are completely exempt during quarantine, our government raises tariffs. And only after the pressure of the MPs from the People's Service and the intervention of the President himself did they set so-called value as a market value of 6.99. While experts believe that the actual cost of gas per cube of 3 bracelets, the real cost of kilowatts of electricity is not more than 50 copies. The country that used to export electricity came to the point that we shut down the power grids of nuclear power plants last year, which we've already reached. We should not be silent. I'm addressing the political party's "Serve of the People" MPs from various political parties. Along with our colleagues, we registered Decree 4581, signed it from all political factions that envision tariffs being brought into line with reality, to those that can be paid by people, set up and return to tariffs, and fully audited. People need to know how real the price of their own gas is, people need to know how the tariff is formed, how the fare for transporting gas is formed. People can't reach out to officials. So I want to read you some letters from Ukrainian citizens, voters. Sergey Mikolaiovich of Sumu. "1 thousand 800 is a pension, 680 is a pipe, 2,000 500 is a gas. How Can I Live? In the light of the increase in utilities, all foods are also on the market for bread. ” Helen Volodymyrna of Herson. "I'm disabled by Group III. The heat was electric, wintering in the kitchen. Recently, I had a severe history of coronary disease. After buying the medicine, there is nothing left, not even for food. I don't know if I'll live till summer." Colleagues, we have to fight the monopolies, we have to fight the oligarhat. And, you know, Schmigal said he's kind of overcoming the rest of some Soviet tariff. So I'm going to say that if we don't get social justice restored now, people will dismantle both Schmidt and the government, and together with him the entire composition of the Parliament of the Ninth Call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u19	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u20	Vladimir Aresonkov, Deputy Group "Trust", Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In recent days, there has been considerable discussion of the issues and directions of the country’s development that will be taken care of by the Supreme Council, the government in 2021. The Trust MP surely supports the fact that the issue of peace in our country, tariff and price policies, the judicial system and its reform, et cetera, et cetera, i.e. there are a number of important topics that we are absolutely supportive of. But tell me, did you sound like a theme that is really a priority for our country, which is capable of ensuring our citizens' ability to be leaders in the world, I mean the development of the education and science system. Regrettably, today’s government, like the previous one, has given the issue absolutely little attention. Now I'm not going to talk in general about the problems that are, I'm just focusing on one aspect. The question is about the implementation of one of the major reforms of the education system that was proposed at the beginning of the 2000 ’ s, which was initiated by the Ministry under the direction of Vasil Kremen, which was linked to the decentralization of the education system, which was linked to the democratization of the processes that were to be carried out in school, the raising of wages for education and so forth. Today, the last week, among parents, the public, raises concerns about one aspect of this reform, namely the functioning of a senior training school. This is about the activities of specialized educational institutions, such as high schools and colleges. It's about the fate of the seniors, the students of the 10-11 classes, who are going to continue their studies this year in these specialized schools. Are our regions of Ukraine ready today to have real training licenses for students. I take the liberty of saying that, unfortunately, all previous years have not been actively engaged in this work. So today the task for both the Ministry of Profitability and for self-government bodies, the newly created communities, is to focus their attention on all the resources to create such full-fledged educational institutions. A bill is now being introduced that simplifies these types. It's suggested to reduce the number of classes, ask a few more questions. Then let's just give up these types of schools at all, it's wrong. And to provide conditions for teaching students.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. It's time for you to come out. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for a "Trust" speech. Who will report? From Trust and Voice? And "European Solidarity." Maria Mikolayovna Ionova
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u22	Your Honor, the chairman, the honourable Ukrainians, the honourable colleagues! Yesterday the authorities of Zelensky promised the Ukrainians to start vaccinations from February. But February is in four days. And we understand that miracles will not happen. Vaccination reservations, their registration, purchases, preparation of vaccination campaigns, logistics in the regions -- all of these stages have failed. And only we hear consonants, theories, promises. The vaccine is not a fetish, the vaccine is a chance. The chance to return, to a normal life, to a full-time job in small and medium-sized businesses, gardens, schools, hotels, restaurants, is the opening of borders. And the sooner the vaccine, the more lives will be saved. The power changes the display every day. We hear different figures from Zelenski, from the Prime Minister, from the minister, from the Chief Medical Officer. Are they communicating with each other? Can we get a one-digit normal number, and it's confirmed by documents? Show me these documents that you've contracted, how many vaccines. The headquarters of the COVID-19, which leads Zelensky, is there anyone else left besides him? And I would like to hear a report from this headquarters, as it happened, that Ukraine is the only country in Europe that has not started vaccination, bought or started vaccination. Who Are Responsible? Because in other countries both governments and prime ministers and presidents fought to reserve enough vaccines for their citizens. And we've been fighting, maybe for what kind of pad is this going to be? As long as the authorities promise but do nothing, thousands of Ukrainians are sick. And you and I know that official statistics are just as low as mortality. And these are all the victims of the Coronavirus, they're the victims of the power. We require the authorities to have an intelligent strategy to combat COVID, extensive testing, protection of doctors, control of self-insulation, a vaccine available, criminal responsibility for the abuse of vaccines. And in the end, let Zelensky and his government make it clear that neither Russian vaccine nor Russian gas will be purchased from the aggressor country. "European Solidarity" has been proposing for a year a plan to fight COVID so that all health care professionals will receive salaries so that all who work with cadaver patients will receive not one salary, but three. We propose to increase the cost of vaccination in the budget and immediately start an educational program for vaccination, otherwise Ukraine will be long behind a new water wall. You know, for a year, green hallucinations have progressed in power when they boast about achievements that others and people don't see. Think, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u23	Thank you. Another statement was made about a break with a replacement for the performance. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u24	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. In fact, I have a question and a reference to both Mr. President and to you, colleagues of a monopoly: please tell me, is there no problem in our country except for roads, coronavirus, medicine, tariff problems, ecology, agropolitics, referendums and so on, except for the armies and volunteers? How many can you terrorize and deal with veterans and land people who protect your five points sitting here in the Supreme Council? Give me a hint, please. Where am I going? I'd like to see, by the way, very much tomorrow, at the first hour of the day and Friday, my esteemed colleagues from a large majority, in the courts that you took to arms not only Rifmaster, but another girl who volunteered in the 14th year of the Right Sector, and then was in the Ukrainian Volunteer Army, whose husband is a lieutenant of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to come and marry. Because the things that happen when a woman who has been repeatedly suspected of being similar to a terrorist who has indeed been conscripting our military in the so-called republic by three letters have been protected and placed in another position when she is suspected of criminal affairs and is detained and taken to the S.I.O. at night, without being allowed to attend this court hearing, are put away for two weeks per game, and now there's just an appeal. Please tell me if it's normal when you look like it shows zero percent between that woman and our woman who served and fought. I think these things are totally unacceptable. And I invite everyone to the trial tomorrow at the first ten in the Thessaloniki Court of Appeal and still after the Rifmaster on Friday, which, by the way, by the way, you know, has been sitting for more than 400 days in S.I.E. Please protect not only theirs but also yours. Because it seems to me that when the Commander-in-Chief, who should have had his first function of protecting his army, his honour and dignity behind his back, was to turn to society and explain what was going on with our veterans and our officers and those who served. I think it's a huge disgrace not only, and I have this remark as a national MP, but also as a public activist, as a volunteer. Such things are unacceptable. At first we had problems with public activists, and now let's transplant all those who are fighting for our security and our statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act (Registration No. 2415). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? Please support and vote. [[10:46:18]] For 199 Decision taken. Paul Vasilovich, a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited to attend. Give time to both the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u26	Good afternoon, people of Ukraine. Good afternoon, national deputies. For consideration by the Supreme Council, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges is proposed in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act (No. 2415, November 11, 2019). This bill is a satellite bill that the Supreme Council passed last October. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal framework for the conduct of investigations by Ukrainian intelligence agencies on the basis of a court decision. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act is systematically linked to the "Investment Act" of September 17, 2020, which took effect on October 24, 2020. According to the Supreme Council Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, it has decided to support the bill and to propose to the Committee on Legal Policy, which is designated as the chief, to work on it, taking into account the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Anti-Corruption Policy notes that the bill does not reveal corruptive factors, and the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. According to a review by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, it was decided that the bill would have no budgetary impact. Taking into account the above-mentioned and legal regulations, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act (Registration No. 2415, 11 November 2019), submitted by the President of Ukraine, as a basis and as a whole, as a law in the following wording: "To amend the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on individual matters related to the conduct of investigations. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Submit to the Ukrainian Act "On the judiciary and status of judges" (Reports of the Supreme Council, 2016, No. 31, article 545 with the following changes). These changes: First. Part of the sixth article 11 should be supplemented by the words "except for the granting of a permit to conduct a survey." (This question concerns the determination of court proceedings by technical means). And part of the first article 29, add to paragraph 9-1 of this content: "is carrying out, in accordance with the Ukrainian Intelligence Act, the mandate of an authorized judge with regard to judicial control over the observance of the rights, freedoms and interests of persons in the course of the conduct of investigative activities and/or appoints a judge(s) from the number of judges of the Court of Appeal to exercise such powers in the course of the examination of the issue of granting permission to conduct investigative procedures." (This is about authorizing the head of the Court of Appeal to consider matters.) Item two. This law takes effect from the day that the law is published." I emphasize that, as the Intelligence Act has become effective, the previous edition stated that since the entry into force of the article of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act of September 17, 2020. But as we are today. The law of retroactive force does not exist, so the Committee of Legal Policy comes out of the fact that the following day the law is published. Thank you. Please support and accept as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u27	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u28	Oddczuk Andry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u29	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction supported the six-year-old intelligence bill, and we've been speaking out for the development of the legal and organizational principles of intelligence and improving its effectiveness. But this time 2415 we are not ready to support this bill, because we believe that it is primarily creating legal uncertainty in the introduction of the concept of "authorized judge", which is in fact contrary to the rule of law in accordance with article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Once again, we stress that the creation of a progressive and quality intelligence system is a priority for us. At the same time, we would not want to introduce imperfect and controversial procedures and legal mechanisms under proper terms, so for now we will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u31	Princess Mikola Leonidovich. Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u32	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, to be honest, this is not the first time in my memory that I do not fully understand what we are voting for. There's a bill initiated by the President, annunciation, and today's reporter didn't show up in the session hall, he's obviously ashamed of the bill that the president passed, and that's true. Instead, we have the position of a committee that was forced to correct everything that was actually put forward by the President. It's a completely inconvenient bill, less or less. It is true, it is objective and fair. But, my friends, the committee has no such authority in the first reading to edit the bill. The committee had, at best, to turn it back to the committee, offering to re-read and then to make its editorial or, at worst, recommend on the basis and in the second reading, try to correct it, including at the expense of the rights of members of the committee. And so we have an absolutely absurd situation that goes against the direction of the Rules Act, and we have two drafts of the bill: one is presidential, the other is committee. And it's not just editorial regulations, it's something to supplement, it's a new content of the bill. The two standards that are changing are proposed to be presented in a different context in general, a more correct one, and one that is consistent with current legislation. Why we're so married, I'll explain. Because the 16th article of the Intelligence Act, which speaks of the specificities of dealing with the relevant issues, came into force on January 24 – two days ago. And now we want to back-number the gap that we now have in legislation. It's unacceptable stuff. Instead of legally solving the problem, we are creating a new illegal problem. Friends, we need to reject this law and, rather, quickly, on behalf of the committee deputies, we need to work out a committee bill that will be supported by a session hall. Otherwise, we're going to get in worse trouble than we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u33	Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u35	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! We've already adopted a slap in the ass in October about the fact that when we passed the Intelligence and External Intelligence Act, when we allowed an external intelligence officer to work in Ukraine, and now we want to allow her to do operational and technical work. I repeat, external intelligence serves to obtain information where internal organs cannot be reached: the Security Service, the police, and so forth. That's where they have to work. We're creating conditions for her to work here. What, does it lack law enforcement or special or security? When operational and technical measures are carried out, they are carried out with the permission of the court -- what it wants to get external intelligence. Such permission is granted by the court in a criminal case or in an operational investigation case that also bears the mark of a crime. What, external intelligence will be conducting some criminal investigations? What, do we want to turn her into a law enforcement agency? What, are there already experts who have studied the Criminal Code who will carry out investigative actions? What are we doing? They are the ones who have prepared this anti - Ukrainian law that will destroy the actions and tasks of external intelligence. And you have to give it back, and you don't have to look at it. And correcting the slaps is necessary, not setting up the President. I don't know how else to say this, it's just a nightmare. I don't know, I can tell you that Mr. Kosuk's chickens will know that we passed this law, they'll stop laying eggs, you know? Do not disgrace yourself or the state. Don't let the president down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u37	Mandy Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u38	Please pass on the word to Marianne Besogly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u39	Insane Mariana Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u40	Gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Intelligence Act on September 17th, which radically changed the legal basis of the activities of the Ukrainian intelligence authorities and, in particular, carried out intelligence activities from the non-proprietary law enforcement services. The law clearly defined the mechanisms and features of democratic civil control, particularly judicial supervision. However, a special process of consideration makes it impossible to disclose the relevant measures before they are fully completed and then prevents the damage to the forces and the means involved. And draft Law 2415 is systematically linked to the Intelligence Act and makes the changes that it takes to ensure that this procedure of the authorized judge is implemented in general. So I'm asking you to support this bill, which is, in fact, part of the Intelligence Act that we've already adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u41	Now Sobole with motives, Aresonkov and Batenko are three performances. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u42	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, yes, indeed, it is a very important law on intelligence that we have approved. But we can't push this law under the Intelligence Act. The Constitution prohibits the use of hindsight in the introduction of laws. I understand that there's been a rule for three days that's out of the Intelligence Act. But we can't now pass this rule into this law and put it back in force. The other one. I understand that the committee has corrected the disadvantages brought by the President of Ukraine. But they must be corrected in a legal way. The committee has no right, even in such a way, to legislate, and to demand that it be voted on as a whole. Our faction is definitely against voting in general. And the key rule is "authorized judges"? Find me in any code the term "authorized judge." Are we going back to 1933? Or what is "authorized judge," "three" is what it is? We have an investigative judge. How we're authorized to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u43	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, of course, an extremely important bill, the Trust MP Group understands the full responsibility of its adoption. On the one hand, yes, the state of affairs today needs to be reconciled with the Law on Intelligence with the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. And the standards that need to be settled today, they are the ones in this bill, and this is what needs to be decided. But I want to draw attention to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which makes some observations. And especially with regard to the distribution of judges, there is and there is an automated system that does this. And today, giving the head of the Court of Appeal the right to determine the composition or the specific judge for the conduct and consideration of the problems and matters related to the conduct of the inquiry raises certain questions. A number of rules that need to be brought into line with the Criminal Procedure Code. That's why I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u45	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP group voted in favour of this bill a few months ago, the "Investment Act," we supported it. But we don't agree with the positions contained in this bill, which it adds. It expands the question of the judiciary and the status of judges in part of the adopted Intelligence Act, and we pay attention, as well as what colleagues said, to the comments of the GNEU that need to be worked out. We see that the subject of this bill is not consistent with the provisions of the Intelligence Act. The Intelligence Act refers to the inadmissibility of the use of technical means of fixation, and the bill introduces changes that relate not to the way in which the case is fixed, but to the way in which the case is handled, namely the way in which the videoconference is dealt with. Thus, it is obvious that the motive of the bill and the proposed solution to the problem presented by the authors are not appropriate. The bill is raw, and we think it needs work. Our MP group won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges in relation to the adoption of the Law on Intelligence (Registration No. 2415). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:02:52]] For 240 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals to this bill and prepare for the second reading. Please support and vote. [[11:03:33]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited to attend. What? Show the factions, please. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of debtors in the settlement of outstanding debt (registration number 4241). Vassilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhaylovna, head of the Committee on Financial, Tax and Customs Policy. Please give me four minutes. Wait, it's suggested that we consider this with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:04:30]] For 240 Decision taken. Please give me four minutes, both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u48	Your Honor, Mr. Speaker, your Honor, your attention is given to the Ukrainian Debtors' Rights Act's bill on settlement of outstanding debt. In Ukraine, perhaps only a few people have had no collectors, each of us receives dozens of electoral letters daily about collectors terrorizing those who have taken credit. We've found solutions to the problems of millions of Ukrainians. Four months of national MPs, National Bank experts, Secretariat of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, lawyers, associations, financial institutions, collectors' companies have been working together to make sure that we never again witnessed the tragic stories of people who end up killing themselves because they failed to withstand the psychological pressures of collectors. To protect the borrower and his loved ones from threats not only from moral thinking but rather from a regulator armed with appropriate controls and mechanisms that will make the market itself an outcast of someone who decides to act outside the limits of what is permitted. For every Ukrainian's personal data to be protected, to go back to the past history of collecting data about a person without consent and not to turn into hell the personal lives of those who have overdue debts to lose any economic relevance due to very sensitive sanctions. If you have the impression that this project does not have to be paid for the debts, it is not true, but it is worthwhile to do so in a civilized way. What's the project about? It's about rules. The project regulates any entity's borrowing in a non-conformity manner. It also introduces a number of ethical rules for those who collect debt. For example, the ban on the use of aggressive dialing techniques, the imposition of time limits on the carrier’s contact with the borrower, is established by a system of State control over compliance with such ethical rules. The profile regulator, and according to the draft law, this is the National Bank, gets control powers. The project allows it to be admitted to the market and to be excluded from the contracting market, while also investigating business reputations, the qualifications of managers and employees engaged in debt collection. It is important that those who have committed a serious violation of ethical standards lose the right to acquittal, and the State will ensure that no one cooperates with such subjects. For engaging in debt collection for companies excluded from the register for ethical misconduct, financial companies will be fined. As part of building a sovereign debt protection system, the National Bank has the right to deal with citizens' complaints and to maintain any relationship with the debtor. With such a system, we will bring this market into a state where interacting with the borrower will be more courteous than threatening and swearing, and a breach of ethics will potentially cost the possibility of being present in this market. We're going to take everyone out of the market who got stuck in some of the interaction methods in the '90s. I propose that a bill be adopted on the basis and that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs should be amended in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the amendment of the Committee's conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u49	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich. Olga Mikhailovna, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to support this bill. There is real terror against people who have nothing to do with any credit at all. This has to do with threats, calls, sending fake photos, blackmailing your parents, this has no financial market status, nothing to do with it. It's kind of the Middle Ages. And I think we need to fix that. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u51	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u53	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u54	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! This bill is really on time, a good initiative. Because I want to remind you that for over 10 years, the state has been trying to address the issue of collector activity. To date, however, no relevant standards have been provided in legislation, and such a situation has allowed collectors to exceed their powers, to exert illegal pressure on people who are to pay their debts accordingly. For the record, citizens' complaints about collectors are almost a third of all complaints from non-bank finustanas. The bill aims to bring collectors into the legal field and, in particular, proposes to authorize the NBA to stop totally illegal pressure from financial institutions. This will help to protect people from night calls, intimidation, and the spread of information about the debtor. That's why the Voice faction will support this bill and call for everyone to be supported as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u55	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u56	Dmitri Alexanderovich, please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u57	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The calls and messages to the citizens of Ukraine from various unidentified phones at any time of the day, with demands to pay off debt, with threats to life, health, blackmail all the time, are in our society, and you've just talked about it. And that's exactly what it looks like today to have an impact on the debtors of natural persons on the part of certain entities that are engaged in paying off late debt for loans for money. Of course, this situation is a result of the failure to regulate the activities of collectors. But I'd like to remind you a little bit about consumer credit. It's the money that the lender provides, and it can be banks, and it can be a financial institution, it's basically for the physical person to buy goods, it's for the car, it's for the complex furniture engineering, it's for other consumer purposes, it's for the treatment. Who provides such consumer loans? Yes, banks and other financial institutions, but also other economic entities. Economic operators are the ones most likely to provide consumer credit for the purchase of sophisticated household equipment. By empowering the National Bank, some of which you have entered even such a mandate as supervision in the area of consumer credit in the form of inspection and visa-free supervision. Would you please tell me the rules of this law decide? Absolutely only a fraction of the issues, and then the rules of law will apply to agreements made after the adoption of this law. And only in a part of ethical conduct can they apply to previous agreements. So the questions and the problems that people have had for ten years have not been solved. So half the time they're going to be able to produce some kind of result? They won't! We need to work on a complex law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u59	Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u60	Please pass the word to the Shufresche.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u61	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Debts, of course, have to be repaid. But please tell me, what's the blame for the people who kept the money in Ukrainian banks when the dollar was 8? Suddenly, 560 billion dollars of money were blocked. 200 billion of them were not returned at all because they were outside the guaranteed deposit, and the rest were returned at course 24. So instead of 80 billion dollars, think about it! - people got $18 billion back. And then we're surprised that banks' assets sell 99 percent off, real people's assets. What are modern collectors? It's legalized crime today that's robbing people. And we have no right to allow these things to develop, to flourish. What's going on today? Please tell me the cost of utilities has increased by 10 times in the predecessors. Well, you can smile, it's like the predecessors, but there's another truth: the predecessors had 55 billion dollars at 26, and today, 30 at 28. I have a question: why does the state that did not provide GDP, the income of our citizens per capita, demand that the last be paid only for what they survive? Our faction for the people, we really do serve, not say we are "ministers of the people," and we will protect people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u63	I see Shahov, I see Nikolainka. Polakov. Now there's three speeches of motive. Then we go to the vote. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. Well, let's start respecting ourselves. The problem of collectors, which has just been discussed so much, is very acute, and we, Parliament, in December 19th of 1909 voted in favour of a bill by the authorship of "The Fatherland" to stop this disgraceful phenomenon. More than a year has passed. Because Natzbank wanted to put into practice what was only for them, they had developed a separate bill, which in part, I emphasize, partially solves the issue. Old debts don't apply. And this is not about the debts arising from residential services, as Nestor Schufrich has just said. So there's a complex bill 2133, and we have to consider it, and we have to solve all the issues, by prohibiting, inter alia, the debt, which is not confirmed by the court, arising from housing services. You can't raise tariffs and let collectors pick up and say that we're only going to provide what Nazbank wants by regulating the debt that came out of bank loans. So let us respect ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u65	National deputy Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u66	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, there is a war in the state. The people led to poverty. Hunger, cold, unemployment. Today came back in the '90s, but they came back when they demanded a simple man, a job that had nothing to eat, and they didn't give a quarter of a billion dollars to miners on miner's Day or New Year's. Why did people live when they went and took it to the collectors? Took money from financial institutions. Did they go into debt today? The mother comes in, and she gets kicked out of the house when she has three children. That is why we need to support this bill and end the era of robbing an ordinary person today. Finish it! Just in the '90s, gang years are back in Ukraine! Few people today suffer, and today retirees are driven into bed by disabled people. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u67	National MP of Polackov Anton Eduardoovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we all know that there are loan portfolios that can't really be returned. And these people will never even pick up the pipes or connect with the banks. And there are millions of Ukrainians who are trying to get these loans back, they're not hiding, they're communicating with banks, and they're trying to communicate with these so-called collectors. This law is designed to establish these relationships, let us say, in the legal field. It's a very good law. There are some nuances that I think we will be able to correct, for example, by adding individuals who are entrepreneurs who are very, very, very much, up to 2 million in Ukraine, who, too, take very many of these loans for their own benefit, and because of our authority, they can't be returned sometimes because of the economic situation in the country. But there are still some nuances about the organization work of Natzbank, but in general our MP group will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u69	Please invite the national deputies, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of debtors in the settlement of arrears (registration No. 4241). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:42]] For 355 Decision taken. Show by factions. "The Servant of the People" – 224, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 27, "European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherland" – 21, "The Party for the Future" – 16, "The Voice" – 15, "The Trust" – 17, "The Non-Factional" – 13. Thank you again, dear fellows. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (referred to as regards the taxation of goods moving (moved) in international postal and express mail) (registration number 4278). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:22:33]] For 239. Decision taken. The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Owl Alexander Georgievic, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the committee's authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u70	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! As we know, worldwide, including Ukraine, there is an increase in Internet trade, which is one of the operational sectors of the world economy. In this regard, there has been an increase in the number of international shipments. It should be noted that the issue is the accounting of such goods and the lack of the ability to exercise proper control in this area. This leads to shipments, substituting invasions, lowering the customs value of goods and other manipulations by both consignors and recipients. In turn, such abuse leads to significant losses in the state budget. The use of the paper form of declaration of international shipments, handmade, as is now the case, does not allow for objective accounting of goods that move in such departures. In this regard, it is virtually impossible to control the import of these products. The project facilitates the administration and improvement of the taxation system, which will allow for a more convenient tax payment system for imports of international postal and express goods. In order to address the above-mentioned issues, the bill proposes: to identify postal operators and express carriers by postal agents if they are declared by means of temporary and additional registrations; to establish the possibility of deferring VAT payments within 30 days from the date of the temporary registration at the same time as the submission of the additional register; to increase from 100 to 150 euros the aggregate invoiced invoiced value of goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine; to bring into line with the tax and customs code of Ukraine into line with the definition of a VAT tax base and by way of determining that basic VAT taxation is part of their customs value for legal persons or part of their aggregate invoice value for natural persons who exceed the equivalent of 50 euros. Exclusion from the Ukrainian Tax Code and incorporate rules in the Ukrainian Customs Code relating to the issue of the declaration of goods and the order of their customs formalities. In addition, it is proposed that by June 30, 2021, these rules should be extended to apply to the introduction of registers and the identification of postal operators and express carriers by tax agents. Please support and vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please write it down: two for, two for, two for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u72	5th Vassil Vasilovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". This bill, like Bill 4279, is aimed at solving the problems of taxation of these goods and services that you and I are ordering abroad through online stores. Today, experts estimate that only one percent of shipments from abroad are declared to be above 100 euros. But it really isn't, because a lot of Ukrainians buy a lot of goods through online stores, they reduce their costs, and so the sellers earn their prices, but they don't pay taxes on the state budget, and they lose the state budget accordingly. This bill actually proposes to increase this tax-free limit on goods and services from abroad from 100 euros to 150 euros. This means that out of an amount that will exceed 150 euros, for example, your purchase will cost 200 euros, you will have to pay a tax of only 50 euros, which exceeds 150 euros, or about 15 euros. So the Trust MP thinks that this bill will simplify tax administration, it will reduce the tax burden on our citizens, and it will be more transparent for our budget. That's why we vote in the first reading for the bill, and we're going to work on it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u74	Thank you. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u76	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, since 1 January 2019, the exemption from VAT on goods imported in international postal and express consignments has been applied to goods whose total invoice value is not higher than the equivalent of 100 euros in one consignment for the recipients of natural persons before 150 euros. Only Ukrainian citizens have become accustomed to these new, perhaps more stringent, rules. As we now go back instead of settling technical issues and making it transparent, and making it possible to blur goods worth over 100 euros, we're back to the limit of 150 euros. Just now, and the reporter didn't say, and you know how many mail, international mail and express mail are coming in Ukraine right now. In 2020 alone, Ukrainians received over 60 million such shipments. And most of all, what's bothering you is that it's a little bit of expensive goods for small shipments without taxes. And when you're talking about private entrepreneurs and fighting them, you're not really working on those standards that we'd sort out before entrepreneurs and make it impossible for large amounts of goods to be delivered by such fragmented parties. It seems to me that today, when you look at this bill, you're making another mistake. Of course, technical adjustments had to be made. But you have to work honestly and openly in front of the citizens so that people can understand that you're not or populists, that they've allowed one thing as their "investment," and they haven't allowed others at all, they haven't even allowed them to work, so far entrepreneurs are standing in the center of Ukraine. I think it's important to think about the second reading of this draft law, although technical amendments need to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u78	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u79	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. I want to remind my fellow national deputies that by July 19th, all the parcels that Ukrainians had ordered from abroad worth up to 150 euros could have been processed without payment of duty. However, the people's deputies of the past call decided to lower this limit to 100 euros, and in the end it did not have any positive effect, but only activated the "sir" import schemes and reduced the corresponding revenues of international postal and express senders. That is why this initiative to raise the limit to 150 euros is absolutely appropriate and right. In addition, the bill provides for a more convenient tax administration system. Actually, that's why the Voice faction will support this bill because it is considered appropriate, in time and absolutely fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u80	Thank you. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, consider what has just been said in this rostrum for a year 60 million transactions related to these shipments. We have the opportunity to give a huge number of Ukrainians one moment to get any improvement that they've heard from all screens, from all boards, from all possible elections and elections in our country. Is it bad to return or increase the standard by 150 euros, allowing people to save a little in our troubled times? And you could clap your hand and thank the authors of this bill (and among the authors or the only authors of this bill, no, there are the authors of a pile, but the first from the "Serve of the People" for these wonderful, good things for people, if not one "but." If you read carefully what's written in the explanatory note, you'll realize that it's not done for people, it's because, according to the mini-infrastructure, the 19th year of this limit made it ineffective. Moreover, since the recipients refused to receive their shipments, this resulted in additional costs for postal operators and express carriers from storing such goods and returning them to their senders. This is not done for you, dear Ukrainians, because the previous money, which, by the way, was part of the old power, did not give anything. This is an example of how fat decisions work against people, and only a year and a half later do they come to an understanding of Parliament to correct them. We're going to vote yes, and we're all going to work with you carefully to make this law work for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, now with the motive of Coltunovich, Kachura. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to say that "The Opposition Platform for Life" will certainly support the draft law. However, I would like to draw attention to the cumulative untaxed cost of goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for one recipient of a natural person who has increased from 100 to 150 euros. Actually, even the previous calculations, what's the price of this law? 1 thousand 709 dollars 50 bucks. If we even take the course today, we had this limit set at 3 thousand 419, now it's going to be 5,000 128 dollars 50 dollars. That's not the number that should limit or the so-called top plank and ceilings. That's the first one. We think we need to raise that figure again. The second moment is, of course, not the problem that exists today. Any person who orders from a child's diet, ending with clothing, what is the possibility of getting rid of this scheme through other mobile operators, third individuals and so on and actually breaking it down. So the suggestion is to go over this to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u84	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich. Then we vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u85	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Our political faction will certainly support this bill and it is really necessary to increase the amount from which imported goods will not be taxed, because they are entrepreneurs, these are ordinary Ukrainian citizens, who unfortunately are ordering goods abroad, not in Ukraine (because we have been destroyed in recent decades, and there is virtually nothing left), in China, in the United States, in other countries, people are ordering goods. I think there's still a definite increase in the amount from which the goods will not be taxed. And I ask the drafters to do an explanatory work with Ukrainian citizens and to inform them that this will not increase the shipping tariffs, it will be a tax paid and simplified administration. You don't have to make a declaration about it. And in fact, in order to be a rich country, you have to cancel any customs fees and taxes at all. Free movement of goods and money will only make us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u86	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxation of goods moving (moved) in international postal and express shipments) (Registration No. 4278). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:37:30.]] For 346 Decision taken. Let me see. What? No, it's not. From what? [[B in m in s a l in]] The procedure is for the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Head, fellow believers, we are bound by Law 4279 concerning the amendment of the Customs Code. They're steaming. I would ask that we pick it up now and consider it now so that we don't go back to that question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, will there be any objections? We can pick it up, now, one minute. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (for taxation by customs payments of goods moving (moved) in international postal shipments, international express shipments and the order of their declaration) (registration No. 4279). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:39:28]] For 251 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Tax, Financial, and Customs Policy, Owl Alexander Georgievic, is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes from the committee, from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u89	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, is proposing a draft law which is linked to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxes on goods moving (moved) in international postal and express mail) (registration No. 4278). The bill is intended to introduce a transparent procedure for customs control and customs clearance of goods sent in international postal and express mail. The bill proposes: the introduction of an electronic declaration of international postal and express services by postal operators and express carriers of the relevant temporary and additional registers; the identification of the information to be entered into such registers; the establishment of procedures and deadlines for their submission to the customs authority; the establishment of a written form of declaration of goods moving (moved) in international postal and express consignments, which will facilitate the automation of processes, the implementation of customs control and customs clearance, and the maintenance of objective and reliable statistics of such goods; the elimination of contradictions between customs and tax codes in relation to the determination of the tax base for the customs duties of these goods and the consolidation of their customs duties as a summary customs value of such goods; the elimination of conflicts between customs documents by which they are transferred; and the imposition of administrative controls by the administrative authorities; the enforcement of 4 customs duties; and the consolidation of the customs administration of the bill. The bill is aimed at improving, accelerating and improving the efficiency of customs control and customs handling of goods that are being moved (moved) in international shipments, facilitating administration and ensuring proper accounting. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u90	Thank you. Please have a seat. Please sign up: two for, two for factions. Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u92	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u93	Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u94	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, well, it's a passing bill that regulates the same issue. In large numbers, we need to understand what plus this bill. It is indeed, if it is intended to simplify things for people, it is a plus: an expansion of the list of documents that allow a person to present such things; an increase in the possibilities for diversification of such things. But there's a huge minus the same people -- taxing and standardizing the transactions that they had to do before for free, thus compensating the underprivileged state policy against all Ukrainians throughout the time of our independence. We have to make a philosophical decision for ourselves: we are for people to pay more; whether we are for people to pay less, or not at all for people to pay less. Of course, the authorities will always insist on taxing anything. And I won't be surprised if they ask this question about taxation for Ukrainians to breathe fresh air. But given the proper existence of the existing order of things, I believe that this bill is clearly under our control today. We have to listen to it and work on the second reading to minimize all the simplification problems for the people and make the state’s policy in this area less controlling and increasing the opportunity for an ordinary Ukrainian person.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u96	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u98	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u99	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Well, actually, because this bill is interconnected with the previous bill that we just voted on, of course, we will support. In addition, this bill actually regulates and eliminates the contradictions between the Customs Code and the Tax Code. It is definitely positive for people. It improves the process of customs control and processing of goods shipped in international postal and express shipments. We'll vote, we'll support. We urge all national MPs to support this legislative initiative. If there is any comment, we will all be able to make appropriate amendments to the drafts for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u100	Friz Irina Vasilovna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the connection between these bills is that they regulate the activities of postal operators, everything else is different. Because in the current Customs Code, only 150 euros, goods of 150 euros, are still working. But instead, the bill made it much easier to declare goods worth up to 10,000 euros coming in international postal and express shipments, by renouncing declarations of M-16 and by declaring them by filing a register. But what is this register? Such a register is currently used to declare shipments of documents and non-taxable shipments. The register is sufficiently formal, as simplified as possible. For example, this register does not even contain a product code. And when we talk about simplification for people, don't forget that in the past years, when we've been working on this topic in 2018, a lot of business has been on the committee, because it's the expansion of opportunities that eliminates certain areas of small business in Ukraine that we're replacing. When you talk about it, think about creating jobs where these people are going to work further, small entrepreneurs, our Ukrainian medium-sized business. We talked about this in 2018. Of course, we will support this bill. But adopt laws that will work for people and the state, and the state will pay all the social benefits, and don't forget that. So turn your brains on and work to ensure that these laws are not reversed in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, Polyakov. Shahov, I see. Then, with motive, Coltunovich, Nikolainka. There's no one more willing to speak, is there? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. We'll have a vote in four minutes. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u103	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we can thank the authors of this bill for at least making life a little better. From what they're buying and not paying these crazy taxes, which is Parliament today, and Kabin is bringing ten skins off a person. And I'm also going to go to the profile committee: draft a bill, and we're going to be co-authors of this bill, so that we don't take taxes from those gatekeepers, from people who are homeless, who have left their children in the country unemployed, and from more than 8 million people who have gone abroad to work. And a million 700,000 displaced people today are in need, and they also went to Poland, Moscow, to Peter, to Rostov to make a penny of bread, to children, and to feed their parents. They also need to collect taxes today, which is 14 billion dollars that enter our country, which is eating up Kabmin today, which is why we don't know why. We need to check and audit the money that enters the state because of those who work abroad. I also heard from my colleagues that there are jobs to be done. By the way, if the $14 billion that enter the country were to make jobs, build jobs, and not destroy jobs, their families would have parents. I spoke more than once from this rostrum, my parents also left at a time when they were unemployed, when one vice-premier in power flooded all the mines. And my parents were ordinary miners, they went abroad, and then they came in coffins. So I would like all people to return to our country, who are now struggling abroad and working for Ukraine! Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u104	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, this bill is related to the preceding part of the amendment to the Customs Code already concerning the taxation of customs duties on goods imported into Ukraine. But here the two bills go together and they report with such a pump that I can't hold back, not react that you would rather not encourage imports than stimulate their own production within the country -- what the previous speakers said. You actually have a negative trade balance of almost minus 5 billion, based on the 20th year. And the volume of exports is actually less than 50 billion. So that's what it takes to do, not to set time and set aside, actually two bills to be considered in the hall in order to just engage in here or simplify individual import operations. And if you want to make changes to the Customs Code, at least encourage the import of high - tech equipment that will contribute to the modernization of the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u106	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u107	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. We certainly support this bill as one that people need, citizens who are forced to buy a lot of things from abroad today, including online. But it is important to note that it is necessary for the customs office not to abuse its position. And to correct at least one rule, which is obvious, that if a person has a supporting document that they bought, so to speak, for 100 euros, then the customs officer should not give any indication or invent any other virtual property and value, and not require any other or more payment. That's why we're going to do this. And in general, of course, I agree with the previous statement that we need to develop our small and medium-sized business. But let's get out of what we already have. At least it'll make people feel better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for taxation by customs payments of goods moved (moved) in international postal shipments, international express shipments and the order of their declaration) (Registration No. 4279). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:53:08]] For 346 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Show by factions. "The Servant of the People" is 220, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 24, "European Solidarity" is 22, "The Fatherland" is 19, "For the Future" is 14, "The Voice" is 17, "The Trust" is 19, "the Non-Factional" is 11. Dear colleagues, we have four minutes to recess, and we have an offer to start a break early. The only requests, representatives, heads of MPs and groups, are to approach the Presidium for a moment. Leaders of MP factions and groups, please approach the Presidium for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, let's get to work. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. You are invited to consider the draft Law on Self-Government of Medical Professions in Ukraine (registration number 2445, 2445-1, 2445-2, 2445-3, 2445-d). Please prepare for the vote. There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Not all of them, I see. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:37:46]] For 208 Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Dubnov Artem Vasilovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u110	Dear Chief, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on Self-Government of Medical Professions in Ukraine (registration number 2445-d), which was published at the National Health Committee, in accordance with article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, as a compromise for the main and three alternative bills. To draft the bill, the committee established a working group and involved representatives of professional medical and pharmaceutical associations. Self - control medical organizations that function successfully in developed countries are responsible for most professional medical matters. The practice of democratic countries in the world proves that professional medical self-government is an extremely useful and useful model for managing the medical sector. The professional self-governance of medical professions is a special kind of professional self-government that will guarantee and ensure the state and empower every medical professional to manage his profession, carry out his own tasks and exercise his own authority. The bill covers all health professionals, and there is also a division of competence between several self-governing organizations: the Family Medical Chamber, the Hospital Professionals Chamber, the Dentist Chamber, the Medical Specialists Chamber, and the Pharmaceuticals Chamber. The powers of self - government of medical professions are very important, including the issuance of a certificate of the right to practice medically; the creation and introduction of a register; the requirements, standards, and criteria for continuous professional development; the establishment of quality, timeliness and completeness of medical care for health professionals; and the acceptance of health standards. The bill preserves the concept of creating a new institution for professional self-government of medical professions, as well as other key positions. In particular, the project proposes the establishment of professional self - government bodies in the field of health care, with the status of state-of-the-art legal persons of public law, the identification of their system and internal organizational structure, the identification of the conditions of entry of persons into the relevant self - government body, the provision of control and quality of professional medical activities, and the making them equal partners in the health sector. In discussing the bill with all interested parties, the Committee concluded that the creation of a new institution such as the self-government of the medical profession should take place in stages with the implementation of pilot projects. So the committee proposes to make changes to the text of the project, such as predicting that 1 year later, as a pilot project, a dentist's chamber is set up, 2 years later, a pharmacist's room, 3 years later, all the other rooms. Thus, as a result of the bill's consideration, the committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on self-government of medical professions in Ukraine (registration number 2445) on the first reading, taking into account the committee's proposals reflected in the committee's conclusions and the draft decree on adoption on the basis of a bill, and rejecting alternative bills. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u111	Thank you, Artem Vasilovich. Dear co-authors, will anyone insist on reports on their drafts? Please, I give my word in turn. National Deputy of Ukraine Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u112	A bill on self - government of medical professions in Ukraine (2445) has been introduced to Parliament by honorary colleagues. It seemed a fine initiative, but unfortunately, the bill presented had a number of shortcomings and did not provide any advantages for the medical community. First, the bill provides for the establishment of medical chambers, which should be composed of all doctors in the relevant sphere. The bill does not provide professional self - control for pharmacists and supervisors, who are also representatives of the health sector, which has already aroused resentment among them, and we have received many appeals. Secondly, it offers a violent way to drive doctors into professional chambers and include medical professionals instead of giving them the opportunity to unite themselves. Thirdly, the bill foresees that a number of functions will be translated into the chambers of the MoHO, including the right to medical care, while the legislation may be used by persons who have appropriate special education and who meet the only qualifications required by legislation. The creation and introduction of a register of health professionals will be ensured. A number of documents will be developed and approved on the functioning of the relevant medical sectors and so on. So, in summary, what I want to say is that there really is a need in Ukraine for the introduction of a new state-owned social health management model based on the institution of professional self-government. All these things were presented in an alternative bill that I am the author of. So I would like to support my alternative bill 2445-1 and all of these things that are meant to form professional chambers in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u113	Thank you. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u114	My fellow Members, our bill will be in line with the very common practice of the developed nations, but in particular the member states of the European Union. Our goal is to pass on functions to the inequitable public authorities. The purpose of our bill is to transfer individual non-national authorities to the authorities of self-government of medical professions. This is the establishment of framework rules for the creation of appropriate professional self-government bodies for defined medical professions; it is the establishment of a list of these medical professions, whose representatives can create a professional self-government body; it is the establishment and establishment of procedures for the creation and introduction of registers of health professionals; it is the establishment of the principles and tasks of self-governance of these medical professions; it is the establishment of conditions, order of insurance, it is the creation of conditions for overcoming corruption risks through transparent financing of such an organization, and, above all, it is the possibility to provide for the ability to influence the quality of education and practical training of medical students, because there is cooperation with the higher educational institutions that train specialists. It's supposed to be a joint bill. And considering all of the alternatives, it should be 2445-d. But unfortunately, the authors finalised the text of the 2445-d draft behind closed doors, and they didn't take into account the constructive proposals that were just offered by the authors of our bill and the public. I insist that there are very strong corruption risks in Bill 2445-d, it's not a self-government project. It's completely out of state control -- it's just nonsense, because it's making decisions that are required by executive authorities and local self-government. So we figure out how these decisions can be mandatory. He can't have that kind of authority, he doesn't have the Cabinet of Ministers today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u115	Two minutes. Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u116	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I just want to draw your attention to how many people this bill actually applies. There can't be anything self-reliant if it's done under pressure. I understand that in a year, two, three years, someone is preparing a place to work, and I realize they've taken a model that applies to lawyers, arbitrators. But take, my honors, just a calculator, let's see how many doctors we have today in Ukraine: 186,000 just doctors, 400,000 nurses. This does not apply to dentists, military doctors. So I want to tell you that this bill applies to almost a million people, a million people. The bill that the committee representative said is consistent, I want to tell you exactly that it was a closed group that tried to create a view that it was neither a group nor the MPs working with the medical community. Now take the calculator you want? The benefits are 2,800, so on the average, multiply by a million dollars. Please tell me, is this self-government? If regional doctors are not represented at all, the military chamber is not even mentioned in this bill. You two go talk to somebody, see the doctors. What's more, this is also true of higher qualifications, this is also true of education. All of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u117	Time's up. Thank you. Please sign up for two, two, against the MP factions and groups. Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u118	Please give Jana Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u119	I'm sorry, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u120	Zinkewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u121	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u122	Thank you, colleagues. Today, Parliament will consider Bill 2445. Indeed, this bill is not a draft on medical self-government; it is a bill on the theft of doctors who, in the order of their beggarly wages, are required to maintain an organization that will establish industry standards, protocols and standards of treatment, and will therefore determine the medical products that are purchased, including at budget costs; it will issue and stop without a court decision the exercise of the right to carry out medical activities, including the way in which medical or local self-government actions are complained of by a medic, so it will be possible to do so except for the MOH; it will have a judicial body – a qualified disciplinary commission that will decide on the involvement of medics in the field of disciplinary responsibility; it will determine the extent of medical education, by limiting the influence of the Ministry of Education and Science and the higher medical institutions, and will decide on the need to exercise full powers over the medical authorities; it will determine the extent of medical supervision of the legal system; it will determine the extent of medical education and the influence of the Ministry of education and of the medical institutions. Today, neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor the MOH nor the courts are taken together. At the same time, the State is completely deprived of the ability to influence health - care policies by transferring everything to a special self - control body. And you don't have to lie about European practice. It's different. And what works, for example, in Britain, will not necessarily work in Ukraine with today’s level of corruption in medicine. This bill isn't about medical self-government, we won't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u123	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Labunsky Angelica Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u124	I want to inform you, I don't know why the committee representative didn't inform you that this bill was being discussed at an anti-corruption committee meeting yesterday. And the conclusion of the committee is that there are, by 100%, signs of corruption. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you can. Yeah, it's weird to watch. I want to tell you further. Now let's see if military medicine is even represented. Please tell me, in a country in which war has been fought for six years, can we forget about military medicine? We asked that question. And it was in my bill, which was submitted according to the practice of European countries and Poland itself, that my bill was presented. I want to tell you that why do we have to hand over the functions of a self-governing organization today when there's a state-owned enterprise running a full register of doctors at the Ministry today? Why? Why duplicate the functions that are already in the state? I think all these bills have to be rejected, sent for work, joined the community. I think you've seen how many open letters the last few days have come from the medical community so that we don't vote on these bills, but consult with the medics. So I'm going to say no, I'm going to go to work, I'm going to create a normal working group, I'm going to open, I'm going to work, I'm going to really do medical self-government in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u125	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u126	Sussun Aini Romanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u127	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u128	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. My colleagues, I can see that most of you are not listening right now, and I'm sure they're thinking about what I'm doing with medical self-government. I'm going to allow myself to quote a post of one dentist doctor, a good dentist who wrote in Facebook yesterday: "In fact, a good idea is used as a wrap, puffering the rams into a stable, as a great good thing for the same rams. A table where all of us will be wronged and 100 percent controlled, a beautiful place for hairdressing, feeding dentists, and then all the medical professions. Yes, self - government is needed, but not as a regular and final yoke for the medical community, but as a way of getting real weights against the exercise of authority. Self - government needs to be defined and promoted in order to enable the community itself to develop, not to rely on incompetent MPs and government officials. Self-government is needed for a better administrative interaction between the professions within the community and between the medical professions. But -- summed up Oreste Stuka, a Ukrainian dentist -- you can have endless discussion of the details, but the discussion is interesting when those who make decisions hear." Now I have a question for you, dear colleagues. Do you hear any Ukrainian doctors? Do you have the courage to hear Ukrainian dentists? Dentists are now against this law. Do you have enough teeth to pass the law and then go to a doctor? They will, believe me, hear that you are now voting for or against this law. So decide how strong your teeth are. The Voice party will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u129	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u130	You know, honourable colleagues, when we see similar bills, I want to urge everyone to stand up and pray for our deputies that God will send them a conscience, because normal people just don't pass such bills. Please tell me you're building some rooms there, and you're being paid for by room number six on Frünz. Because you want all the doctors to make slaves now, you're all going to fall under the same organization, the private bench that tells them how they're supposed to work, you're going to be all there, you're going to bully them, you're going to tell them who has the right to practice, and who doesn't have the right to practice, who we're going to give jobs to, and who we won't. And you're going to gather them together. Please tell me, do we have so many doctors? How many doctors have left Ukraine in recent years? Do you want us to have no one to treat us? Now it's a problem to contact your family doctor, so you won't call any other doctors. Do you want to destroy our nation completely? If the Ukrainians don't need it, I'm sorry, it's just genocide. And this law is the genocide of the medical field. I call on every deputy not to act or vote in favour of this law. Please be shocked, you can't do this. You can't do that with doctors, they're totally against this law. Please listen to the experts, don't let us lose the medical field!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u131	Thank you. I see. One is motive, two is motive. Anyone else want it for a reason? Dmitri's is a motive. Then we go to the vote, three speeches, then we go to the vote. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, it's the COVID that fought, we're fine, vaccines are full of closets. Now, let's take the dentist for the rest of us, let's organize ourselves. I honestly don't understand. Let's first figure out what the Suprun left us, or let's figure out what it took from us. They say 40,000 doctors have left the country, do you want the rest of them to run away? Absolutely inconvenient, irresponsible, and, as our distinguished committee to fight corruption said, a corrupt initiative. So let's leave the doctors as they are, and we'll keep them and thank them. And to these matters, we need to go back when people are healthy and doctors have received the income they deserve and that you have promised them, by the way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u133	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u134	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Larissa Bilozer, trust MP. In fact, I think it's a law, and I see most of the faction colleagues from different factions. I thought it was a campaign of medical self-government. The Law on the Final Consolidation of Medicine. In fact, doctors say they want to work on them. You know, it's very interesting that the site doesn't even have a reference to the conclusion of the GNEU. You can read that the law forces the medical community to go to the chambers and make them pay the fees as well. Therefore, no one can be forced to join any association of citizens — article 36 of the Constitution. We're here during COVID, when the medics are standing on the front and actually, like the firemen in Chernobyl, putting out this pandemic situation, we want them all in chambers, you know, and in a forced nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u135	Dmitri's Oksana Alexandrovna. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Today we are considering a very important bill for Ukrainian medicine. The 38 General Assembly resolution of the World Health Association states: "By giving doctors the independence and professional freedom to carry out medical activities, society creates conditions for the creation of the best possible health systems for its citizens, which in turn provides a strong contribution to national development and security." There is still no medical self-governance in Ukraine, although the need for its construction is fixed during the 39th World Assembly in the 87th Declaration of Madrid. Colleagues, there are many questions before this bill. Because this is a completely new bill that completely changes what the medical community is used to. But the first step had to be done long ago. I ask you to support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, take your seats, and prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, distinguished national MPs? I'm betting on a proposal for adoption based on the Committee's proposals for a bill on self-government of the medical profession in Ukraine (registration number 2445-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. It's the first reading. [[13:02:50]] For 206 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of Bill 2445-d. Please support and vote. Don't scream, please. [[13:03:24]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to redraft Law 2445-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:03:59]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next one. The law was rejected, of course, 222 -- the law was rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending article 42 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to improve the procedure for the election of higher education directors (registration numbers 4489, 4489-1, 4489-2). It is suggested that we consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:05:07]] For 237 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Špak Love Alexandrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a bill has been submitted to your attention to amend article 42 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to improve the election procedure of the head of the higher education institution. What is the main purpose of the bill? First of all, settle on the legislative level the issue of holding the second round of the election of the head of the higher education institution. So you know, for today, what happened at the Kiev-Magilian Academy as well as at Taras Shevchenk University. What do I mean? First. At the level of Ukraine's Higher Education Act, predict a second round of elections. To date, the bill itself is not in charge of the second round of elections, and that is where only the methodological recommendations on the characteristics of the electoral system are addressed. But it's just a recommendation, and it needs to be settled first and foremost. It's different. I propose that the winner of the second round be the candidate who will receive more than 50 percent of the vote. We do not have to make choices, but we do have the right to do so today. That's why to avoid complications in the electoral process, there's a problem with entering data from them. Why is this important? Because today we are taking 50 percent of the total number of people who vote if we go to this bill, it is those who are present on the day of the vote. Thank you very much to our colleagues who have just paid attention to my idea, Sergey Vitaliyovich, please, I have a lot of ideas for higher school. I'm glad I'm just like the deputy from Cherkachina who came in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u139	Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, is invited to attend. Both from the committee and from the authors give me four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u140	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we are looking at three bills that apply and try to solve one and the same problem. What is the problem? Now the contract is signed with the candidate who won 50 percent of the Rector's election plus one vote from the entire number of people who have the right to vote. This leads to the fact that, as my colleague has already pointed out, both at the Kiev-Mogilian Academy, and at the University of Shevchenka, in our flagmen, the elections have not taken place, and at the Mohilian Academy they have already been held for the third time, and the year of the university without a rector. It's probably the right ideal norm to work in the perfect world. But because the right to choose is a right, not an obligation, not all enjoy it. And then we get into an anecdotic situation where at the University of Shevchenka, one of the candidates got 75 percent of the votes and couldn't become a rector because he didn't have enough one and a half percent of the number of people who had the right to vote. What is actually being suggested? It is proposed to improve the procedures for the selection of rectors, to make them two-track. In the first round, it's going to stay the way it is now, 50 percent plus one vote from all those who have the right to choose, and in the first round, the person becomes the rector. And on the second round, 50 percent plus one vote from those who come to the election, provided that more than half of those who have the right to vote come to the election. This standard is consistent with all steakholders. And even though there are a number of alternative bills, the committee has all considered them at its meeting and concluded on the basis of the expert conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Academy of Law, the University Community and other Steakholders, has decided to reject Bills 4489 and 4489-2, and draft Bill 4489-1 to adopt on the basis of a reduction in the deadlines for preparation for second reading. And I'll also point out from the authors and from the committee that the issue of special inspection will not be distributed to the rectors of private higher education institutions. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, shorten the preparation period and prepare it qualitatively for second reading so that we can finally resolve all of these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u141	Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine Mokchan Aleksei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u142	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Higher Education Act regulates the general principles for the selection, appointment and release of the head of the higher education institution. Article 42 of the Law stipulates that the winner of such elections is a person who has obtained more than 50 percent of the votes from the total number of persons who have the right to vote, that is, the absolute majority. In other words, more than half of all elections should be voted for. As a result, there is a widespread practice where candidates for higher education do not get the required number of votes. Also, the process of selecting higher education executives is exacerbating the epidemiological situation in the country and the introduction of quarantine measures. The absence of a permanent manager leads to higher jobs, poor quality of education, failure to implement the financial plan, lack of respect for the rule of law and order, deterioration of the quality of work of workers, and conditions for effective and open public control of higher activities. Also, this article does not provide for the right and order of postgraduate candidates to take part in the election of a higher education head. However, according to article 61 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, they are the recipients of higher education, so this position is not consistent with the principles of democracy and nullifies the right to vote, the right to participate in the higher education institution of all participants in the educational process. Bill 4489-2 proposes that the contract be made with a person who has obtained more than 50 percent of the votes cast by the voter and that the right to vote by all higher education recipients, including postgraduates, be provided for in the selection of the head of the higher education facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u143	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u144	It's a princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u145	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we are well aware that they have not really been able to choose a rector in Kiev-Mogilian for years, and this is a difficult situation at the University of Kiev, Shevchenka. So when we look at these bills, the most important, the most effective, to solve this issue, from our point of view, is Bill 4489-1 of my colleague Babak. One thing is not clear in this bill. The bill proposes a special examination, including for the rectors of private institutions. You remember the situation. Wait, let me finish. I understand that we support the first reading, we'll apply the second. Remember, for example, the situation at the Ukrainian Catholic University, which was persecuted and could not be directed by Janukovic. We shouldn't let that happen in this project. Who should carry out the special inspection? A minister who is silent when, a week ago, 21 February, the judge of the Arsiri district administration made a shameful decision, which the Minosvets committed to reviewing the Ukrainian history of 2013-2014 and forbidding to talk about the killings of the Celestial 100. A minister who does not respond to what one of the university professors calls all those who voted here in favor of the Ukrainian Language Act, the fascists, and the issue of some frivolous statement about the equality of languages. A minister accused of being accused is based on plagiarism that has been appointed by buttoning. Who will check the knots? Where is our response to this shameful situation that has arisen in the Ministry of Education, which has become the Ministry of Anti - Ukrainian Propaganda? So in the first reading, we support 4489-1 and we're going to demand special inspection standards for private schools for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u147	Thank you. Please give the line to Sergio Babak, and then prepare for that, the national MP, Pipa Natalia Romanovna. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u148	Thank you, colleagues. I will not comment on most of the previous statement. But the only question that concerns the bill is the observation of a special review for potential rectors of institutions of higher education of private ownership, it will be removed, and the amendment will be submitted accordingly by the committee to improve this law to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u149	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please, People's Deputy Pipa Natalia Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u150	Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv, Voice faction. Who is the manager of a higher education facility? A person on whom much depends — from a quality educational process to a positive image of a higher education institution. Therefore, the choices of higher education should be quality and transparent, clear, and understandable to those who want to exercise this right. I will not go into the procedure, for much has been said about it. I'm going to say that the Voice faction will support this bill in the first reading, but it will file a special review of the Rectors, particularly private institutions, such as the Ukrainian Catholic University. But I also want to go to all of the students, because this bill isn't just about the Rector's election, it's about the self-government of the education community. And I would like to remind you that by the Law on complete general secondary education last January and the Higher Education Institutions Act, we have given every student the opportunity and wider rights to make changes in education for the better, not to expect that Sergey Scarlett will do so, which is making changes for the worse as a minister of education, but to work and increase his competence and ability for everyone in the workplace that he has, because the reform of the new Ukrainian school and the reform of higher education in Ukraine will not stop. We're going to have a better education in Ukraine, that's what the committee is working on, that's what I really want to believe, a lot of deputies in this room, and that's what every educator will be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u151	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u152	Dear Society, take the agenda of today's session, or the previous one, or the next one, and see what our legislative initiatives are called: 95 percent start "to make changes." This is about two things: speedy working mode and not very deep penetration into the core, as they say, Earth, essentially, and, on the other hand, life, of course, is richer, more diverse and more difficult, as we would not like it, but in Ukraine. This bill was no exception. Above the basic law, I remember how vast intellectual potential worked on the law, how much social organizations were involved, and professionals working directly in higher education, and the MP’s corps. And it's just as complicated as life has turned out to be. The main thing is to react in time to avoid collapse. What are the leading facilities that are now without steering and without sails? That's not right. So I welcome the legislative initiative and our colleague Shpak (rector with six years of experience), and the deputy corps that worked on the law that will now be adopted (from Section 1), and others, the second reading needs to be amended and voted as soon as possible. Science-experimental -- no notice at all. This is rarely the case when it is almost unattended. The rector community is supportive. The Academy of Pedagogical Sciences is in. The Ministry is in. The law academy is in. "Paternal" is for. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u153	Thank you. Shapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Wait a minute, please. Will someone insist on motive? Whitelighter, no one else. Then it's Constanceevich, Bilozore, and we're going to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u154	Respectable Society! As I continue to speak with my previous colleague, I would like to say that the Future Group will also support a bill that has become compromised. And we understand that this bill saves, in fact, the situation created by the previous legislation, and it needs to be done immediately in order to first solve the situation at the two leading universities of our country: the Kiev-Mogilian Academy, at the University of Shevchenka. But at the same time, we realize that this situation may be in other universities. So we're saving. But at the same time, I would like to draw everyone's attention to another problem: the problem of university autonomy, the autonomy of rectors, the science and university composition. And in order for them to be really autonomous, we need to increase funding for universities. And I'm addressing both the head of the committee, and the profile committee, so that the question of financial autonomy will soon become the epicentre of those problems. The question of pay for higher school teachers; the issue of scholarship insurance for higher school students, for colleges and technicians -- should be at the centre of the examination of the profile committee. So society, if we're talking about the future of our country, we need to understand that without investment materially from the state, there will be nothing in this area. Thank you. We're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u155	Please give the floor to the National MP, Bilozur Larissa Mikolayovni, MP group "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, we really need a law, because the Higher Education Act did not regulate the second round, now the issue will be resolved, and 50 percent in the second round will be counted, not by the total, but by those who voted. But I would like to point out that Mrs. Spak 4479's bill, it is he who solves the problem of the Mohilyanka, where the third round of elections has already taken place, and the Kyiv National University, where the second one, and I don't think this law will solve it entirely, because in the "end" it is clear that the second tour will take place in accordance with this law. So there may be a fourth round of elections in the Mogilian region, and there may be a third in the KIC. And I also want to draw attention to the problem, along with Lugansk State Meduniversity in Rubizny. There, in general, the MOH simply took over and canceled the elections that were to take place on December 3, 2020. And that's our image, and that's where 400 foreign students are being trained, and that's something that's actually in violation of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u157	People's deputy Lukashev. And then we go to the vote, please invite a colleague to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a dutiful bill for the entire area of higher education in Ukraine, because we need to address the issue today not only of the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy and the University of Shevchenka, but we need to establish the fundamental foundations of freedom of universities, we need to get rid of this shameful practice when for years the Ministry of Education and Science has been responsible for cleaning up and preparing the electorate for the "right" elections. That's why I think it's necessary to support this bill and give the right to scientific and pedagogical workers and to all voters who have the right to vote in a Rector's election in order to realize that right. And then we'll see that the election is going to be transparent, independent and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u159	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 42 of the Higher Education Act on the improvement of the election procedure of the head of the higher education institution (registration number 4489-1). Ready? Please support and vote 4489-1. [[13:25:15]] For 335 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I am voting on the proposal to vote on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Reduction of Half of the Deadlines and Proposals and Preparations for the Second Reading of the Bill (Registration No. 4489-1). Please support and vote. [[13:26:00]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification and assessment of the status of the Ukrainian Railway Company, the investigation of possible inactivity, the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of the listed enterprise, which has led to a significant deterioration in the technical condition of the enterprise and the main production indicators (registration number 3432). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:26:55]] For 257 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Grishin, Julius Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the Ukrzaliznica Association is a state-owned monopolistic enterprise in the field of rail transport, which is strategic for both the security of the country and the economy of our country. That we've all been seeing you over the last few years. Profitability of UZ decreases every year. The Derjaudit Service recently conducted a planned audit of the financial and economic activities of UZ and its 24 branches over a year and a half, from 18th to 19th. As a result, there has been a violation of financial discipline, a violation of public procurement, and a defect in various aspects of CCI activity. The sum, imagine, 12 billion dollars. In addition, the conditions for passenger transport are improving very slowly, much slower than the price of tickets. And we have a huge number of complaints from people about that. In spite of this, AT "Urzaliznica" paid nearly 52 million dollars from September 2018 to September 2019 alone to the members of the Supervisory Board. At the same time, Ukraine’s budget lacked more than 206 million dollars. I've just told you the tip of the iceberg, everyone understands that in two minutes you won't be counting everything that's been going on at the Crucifixion in the last few years. We have a huge field of work, representing all the factions in this direction. Therefore, I very much ask all in attendance to support the Ordinance on the establishment of a TSC on the verification and assessment of the state of the AI, on the investigation of the inaction and violations of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of this enterprise. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u161	Thank you, Julia Mikolayevna. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u162	The Honorary Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting discussed the draft Ordinance (registration 3432) on the establishment of an appropriate Temporary Investigative Commission whose purpose, as stated in the Explanatory Note, is to carry out parliamentary control, to ensure an unbiased transparent examination and assessment of the state of the Ukrainian Railway Company, to investigate inaction, to investigate violations of legislation by the administration of this enterprise, which has led to a significant deterioration in the technical state of the enterprise and the main production indicators. According to the proposals of parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups, it is proposed that this temporary investigation commission of the factions of the Party's Servants of the People, the Opposition Platform for Life, the faction of Fathers, the Deputies for the Future and the Trust. The committee noted that the project offered editorial clarification. In paragraph 8, the word "Ukraine" should be deleted from the name of the Attorney General's Office and paragraph 9 should replace the word "term" with "term" in paragraph 9. In summary, the regulatory committee decided to recommend to Parliament that it consider the draft Ordinance, taking into account the Committee's observations, take a decision in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this determination? Please sign up: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u164	Bondarev Constantine Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u165	Give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u166	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u167	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We support the creation of such a TSC and we have offered a colleague from the Bondarev faction of Constantine Anatoliyovich as a member of this temporary commission of inquiry. But, dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to one fact. We are, of course, sometimes creating temporary commissions of inquiry, the different effectiveness of their work. But let's look at the situation with the structures that today, before their audit and verification, can't reach any control body, I mean the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz, which is actually a closed structure. It's a company that doesn't answer the question, and yesterday it's not the Prime Minister on my direct question, either. Vitrenko, the Energy Minister, didn't answer, but how much Naftogaz put gas in the gas depository in the summer. This is a company that, according to the State Audit Service, did not count 75 billion dollars last year to the state budget, but a 250 billion dollar breach. That's three times what we got from the IMF for one second. These are the funds that were being shared. These are tariffs, which today are disproportionate, paid by every citizen of Ukraine and translated on the Ukrainian’s side. Maybe we should create a TSC like that. There are funds for the state budget for both vaccines and pensions, and for addressing the socio-economic issues that every Ukrainian family needs today. So let's, when we create the TSC, we're going to decide what's really important and screaming for Ukraine, because we have to get to the truth. And those who spend their budget at NAC Naftogaza today have to take responsibility, and we as Fatherland are going to go for it. Naftogaz is supposed to be responsible for what he does by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u168	Anna Constantine's speedboat. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u169	Dear friends, on January 19th of this year, one former top-driver or TNC employee, remember, was such a company, gave interviews to the Ukrainian media, where he said that 625,000 bracelets were such a mess, excuse me. This is the salary he received 25 years ago, working at TNC, Kievstar. I'm talking about the acting leader of U.S. Ukraine. "Ukrainian Railway," who didn't understand. He doesn't have time to meet with a national MP when he demands that we don't shorten the employees of the Crucifixion System. And not just from the opposition political forces. He doesn't have time to inspect the problems in the field. He has only one problem in his life: why he gets paid such a small salary as the $625,000 he received 25 years ago. So, colleagues, I could do the numbers right now, and as I prepare for the performance, the railway experts wrote me a package of suggestions that I need to check, and I will definitely prove it to the competent authorities. We support, our parliamentary group, the establishment of this commission. I just really want to go to all my colleagues who are going to work there, and prove the results of your examination to the final and logical conclusion, and let those who have stolen finally sit down. And last, for there is not enough time. We ask our colleagues very much, first of all, to begin with, to dissolve this composition of the Supervisory Board of the Crossroads. It's at least ineffective, and it's at the very least damaging to the interests of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u170	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u171	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u172	Excuse me, again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u173	Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u174	Julia Leonidna Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u175	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, I have such an impression that Parliament is trying to replace all the executive authorities. I want to remind the "ministers of the people" that you are the majority that controls completely all the law enforcement agencies. Please engage in systematic corruption at the Crucify and other state-owned enterprises. Not to be the leader of this corruption, but to fight corruption by the appropriate government authorities, which our taxpayers and our budget support by billions. Every Ukrainian citizen pays billions in budget to support millions of law enforcement agencies, and Parliament should not replace law enforcement. If you have the facts of corruption at the Crucify, go to law enforcement, do not engage in political games because of the temporary commission of inquiry and other parliamentary bodies. It's not our function. With regard to our vote, we will not support this decision because we have not been invited to this temporary commission of inquiry. That's why the Voice faction, unfortunately, won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u176	Thank you. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u177	I'd like a word with Alexander Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u178	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, we support this determination and the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the status and activities of the Crossroads. But we're interested in some parameters that I'd like to focus on. First. It's about the significant losses that we've already mentioned in part today: we've lost rail transit, we've lost separate routes in Asia in terms of passenger and freight transport, these are huge losses to the budget and the national economy, which are estimated, for example, by transit of $1 billion per year, and these are huge costs. First. The other one. We are equally interested in the issue of supervisory advice and checking their effectiveness on the Railroads, because there is no one there, but not railways in this supervisory board. So from this point of view, we're just curious to see the results of their activities, and how effectively they generate and implement the process of modernizing the rolling stock and so on, the railway renewal stations and so on. Then on, and we're looking at 20 today, we've had a pretty substantial reduction in passenger traffic by 63 percent. We understand that the reason for this is the limited measures related to the coronavirus, but it's a large figure, it's a serious drop of 63 percent, and it's a 3.4 percent drop. It's only in one year. If we compare it to 2013 then that's where the numbers go. So we're also interested in having the Temporary Investigation Commission answer these questions, what are the problems that we have, what are the gaps in order for us to solve all these things in the future. Well, it's the most important thing. Of course, we are interested in the issue of upgrading the entire railway in the country. Always. Quite often compared to 2004, 2005 when we were at Kirpa's minister of transportation, and with the time when we had railway stations, moving warehouses, and the whole canvas around the country. So we want the country to have a decent railway and have a modern future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u180	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Ariev. Yes, I'm sorry. Ariev. Two speeches with motives, then we go to the vote. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u181	It's hard to say why most people are now in opposition and registering this commission of inquiry, when the Antimonopoly Committee is in power and largely in power, and the law enforcement agencies, and the investigation is everything. Please do your job, and let these law enforcement authorities conduct appropriate investigations. Do you not trust them anymore? But it's the object of the opposition you're blocking. And in particular, you don't make draft regulations on the commission of inquiry concerning the "vagners" because you're afraid that the betrayal will be revealed in the first offices in the office of the President of Ukraine, you're not putting ready the investigation commission on the Sheremet, because it's going to be exposed to a completely clear falsification of the investigation. But you can't even put a Russian agent on film called Dusty-Bayden's, because you're already scared. Yes, perhaps you should stop being afraid and make appropriate decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u182	Wack Hennaday Anatoliyovich. One minute, for reasons, after that, we're voting. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u183	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Gennady Watzak, 16th District, Trust Group. In my 16th district, the daily trains of Mogilov-Podilski-Kyiv with a passenger-friendly schedule. Today, this train only travels three times. I've put in a request from the MP for the return of a previous convenient train schedule for passengers. Railway response: missing mobile warehouse. I have a question with my constituents: Who and why have changed the timetable of trains, reduced passenger traffic, and bankrupted the railway? The Trust MPs support the draft ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u184	Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance on the establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification and assessment of the status of the Ukrainian Railway Association, the investigation of possible inactivity, the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of the listed enterprise, which has led to a significant deterioration in the technical state of the enterprise and the main production indicators (Registration No. 3432). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:42:50]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. Arahami is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u185	Colleagues, there's a proposal, there's a bill that's long-awaited, there's already an OSB all writing letters, I'm sure, all of you, 4086, that regulates this situation. I suggest we go to him without discussion and vote if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u186	Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. On the basis or on the basis and in general it goes? Based on the base. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and other legislative acts of Ukraine to establish responsibility for violating the deadline for the transfer of documentation to a multi-room building (register No. 4086). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:35]] For 316 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal under article 116, part two, on the reduction of half the time limits for the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 4086. Please support and vote. [[13:45:10]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the renaming of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation on social protection for persons with disabilities (registration number 3964). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:45:49]] For 264 Decision taken. You're welcome. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussing? I can't hear you in the mask. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? Discussed. First Deputy Minister of Social Policy Kotik Eugene Dmitrovich. I'm sorry, but the name to discuss is, well, it's such an important job.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u187	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable People's Deputies! The draft Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine on the renaming of the Social Protection Fund and bringing terminology into line with legislation on the protection of persons with disabilities developed by the Ministry of Social Policy in order to bring the name of the Fund into line with the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. In particular, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Act on Employment of Population in the Rename of the Fund, which proposes to change the name of the Social Protection Fund to the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities. The bill is supported by professional and other parliamentary committees, as well as the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u188	Give me a minute, we'll give Arthur Volodymyrovich two minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, if everyone's talking, then no. Then we went full. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of the Rights of Veterans. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Shahov is your colleague. Trelyakova Galina Mikolayivna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u189	In 2009 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to it were adopted by the honourable chairman, honourable national deputies. At the same time, in 2009, our fund of people with disabilities was not renamed according to the decisions of this Convention and the Optional Protocol. And so the Social Policy Committee, in its decision, without having received any comments from any structure, we have no comments from the Government Commissioner for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, no comments from the ministries and departments, we recommend that this bill be adopted on a basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u190	Anyone who wishes to speak, please sign up for the performance. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u191	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, it is necessary to support this legislative initiative, but first of all, it may be necessary for the disabled to receive assistance from the State, because they are now looking at the disabled and seeing the name renamed as a body that should take care of them. There was a police force, there was a police force, there was a tomato, there was a tomato, and now there's a profile in the direction that corresponds to the government, and it changes the name. So you know how much this cost is going to be, you have to change the seals now, you have to order plates, you have to change the forms all the time, it's the cost of the budget. It would be better for this money to build extra pandas, and there are never too many pandas, and then the disabled would really say "thank you." And for the fact that we are now spending the money that we are being given by taxpayers to work in Parliament and to change the name of one organ to another, as I told you before, this is probably not the time, and the Convention could have waited since 2009. And in fact, the most important thing, probably, is that we don't have to cry about people with disabilities and write letters that they say about what they have to do with these tariffs and with this social security to live in the kitchen, because the other part of the apartment and the house they can't burn, and what they don't know what to live for, the medicine. And the state doesn't care about these people at all. So let's think about it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u192	Friz Irina Vasilovna. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! "European Solidarity", of course, will support this bill. But when you talk about social protection, about the social sphere, you know, let's be honest. Because a few recent events have really rocked Ukraine and our entire society, among them the events in Kharkiv. And I would like to say that Mr. Zelensky and his authorities are also personally responsible for the deaths of these people. Let me explain why. Because as early as January 19th, a progressive and very good Act on Social Services was passed in which all of these norms, which were discussed with the expert community, with the public, were taken into account. And for the next two years, it's been taken for these norms to be implemented, to work on the social services market, to create a register of all institutions in this area, in this field. But both the first and the second governments of Zelensky did nothing, they did absolutely nothing. And that's one of the reasons why things happened in Kharkiv. That's why I'd like to go to my colleagues today with a majority, and have them influence their government and influence their President in order to ensure that as soon as possible the standards laid down in the bill on social services, which has already become law and has been signed by President Prashenko, work in life so that we don't allow situations that have happened in Kharkiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u194	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u195	Please give me the word of Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u196	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I completely agree with you that there is nothing to discuss here. And what I'm trying to say to the drafters of the bill is that nothing is as demeaning to the dignity of people with limited physical capabilities as this "spoon" to the face as 1,000, 769 dollars of the minimum pension. We have to start with this, this is the time. Second, why is it that people with limited physical capacity in utilities, shops, transportation is not resolved? To do this, we need to create. implement international conventions into legislation, including European practices in the country. Another very important moment. We also have subsidies for people with disabilities. And people can't with these limited possibilities, they can't get and claim subsidies. So, in my opinion, such a bill has to be complex and decide a number of urgent, completely opposite things that we're talking about, not those that are saying in the draft law today. We certainly support the change of name. But once again, this will not solve the issue of people with limited capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u198	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u199	Yvchenko, Fatherland. I would like to give the floor to a colleague of Parliament, the representative of the union of Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u200	Who? Rudik? Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u201	That's right, Rudik. Dear colleagues! Well, can we, after a year and a half, when there's a new coalition, and now, thank God, the second government, be against the technical substitution of one word by two? No, of course not. We insult, we call people with special needs the word disabled. And we do it so often, we don't even notice it ourselves. I'd like to draw attention to someone else. We insult people with special needs much more when we propose laws that regulate their lives in a final way. Remember, there was such a terminology, a final principle? Today, let's call things our names, by the laws of the genre we should not have come to the consideration of this bill. Only because we voted three previous ones (or two) without discussion did we reach him. You know when the government introduced this historic bill to Parliament? In August of 2020. Does this mean that we view these people as priorities? When we walk down the streets of our city and see that a person with special needs, without limbs, cannot enter our normal house, we treat this person with a special priority? No, of course not. Of course, changes have taken place in recent times, and nothing can be said to be done. But unfortunately, and last year, we showed this as a parliament, voting to prevent 40,000 people with special needs who suffered from manufacturing injuries from getting medical treatment for 7 months, showing that we did not, in a mild sense, do not do so, but, in particular, sometimes get into a stall. Of course, our parliamentary group will vote in favour. But, colleagues, let's make the lives of these people the priority of the lives of people who don't have these problems, in us, healthy people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u202	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Are there no more speakers? Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, the value changes, we change names, but there are no social guarantees in the state. When a person’s feet were torn off in war, would he grow up to be named? Why is the state not helping today with prosthetics when the Afghans came, and they also fought for our state? There's no hand today, no eye -- no one's helping today either. We've been released completely, we've removed all the benefits to the people. The Chernobyls "pulled out" their lungs completely. Will the lungs be returned with a name today? We're not going back. And let's return to them today, 108 thousand people left on all the disabled, let's return the benefits to the black people. Is it today that the person who has received the lesion and rots the body to the bone, or is it that someone today does not bring the body back to man? No, it's not. So let us take care of people, not for names. Let's add the benefits to people with disabilities, not just speak or change the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u204	Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich – for reasons, after that, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, it is very good that we are paying attention to such a problem as names, changing names in accordance with European legislation and so on, as my colleague Shahov said, that really this life of people is not getting better. And I want to point out that we need to do an audit of the Social Protection Fund, whether it fits the Fund's activities because of what's going on. I want to say that people with disabilities have probably the last hope right now is the Supreme Council, we're now fighting for children's rights, for people with disabilities' rights. And I want to emphasize that my fellow deputies from the "Serial of the People" faction will register a temporary commission of inquiry and deal with the activities of this fund, and we will stand up for special schools, defend children's rights with disabilities to education. Thank you, colleagues. We'll uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-27-m0.u206	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm going to continue this session for 15 minutes before we vote on this bill because there's 30 seconds left. [[B in m in s a l in]] That is the basis, and in general. I don't think there's any objection. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the renaming of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation in the field of social protection for persons with disabilities (registration number 3964). Please support and vote. [[14:00:30]] For the 320. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the renaming of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and bringing terminology into line with legislation in the field of social protection for persons with disabilities (registration No. 3964). Please support and vote. [[2:01:07]] For 321 Decision taken. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you.
