ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for electronic voting. I would like to remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it until the registration is complete. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:04:55]] There are 231 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues. Arthur Volodymyrovich, where's your application? Wait a second. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions to announce a recess in the plenary session, a real break. A break of 30 minutes is announced. The European Solidarity faction is calling for a reunion. Until 10:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we've taken three breaks. We had a long meeting. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. My dear colleagues, as a result of our meeting, I would like to address all the subjects on which Decree 1006, which regulates the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is taking place. I ask all subjects concerned to abide by this decision, which is made at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If anyone wants to make changes to him, the procedure is familiar to everyone. The other one. We agreed we'd finish. Well, we have at 12:30 a.m., we're going to give three minutes to each faction's representative and group to be able to take the results of the meeting, right now, and then we're going to take a break from 12:00 to 12:30. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions and groups to sign up for a three-minute performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Soboljevo Sergey Vladislavovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Association of Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that Parliament remains an inaccessible fortress for the people of Ukraine. Now, today, if yesterday, the day before yesterday, there were natural persons entrepreneurs around Parliament, now around the Parliament miners. And after our faction met with them, they said that the coal sector is being destroyed, the miners are being destroyed, their families are essentially being thrown out on the street, and they're asking the Supreme Council to take their delegation at the level of the Supreme Council and the faction leaders, the profile committees immediately. You're warm, you're fine, you're paid, you're official, and you're unofficial, okay, and they're on the street right now, frozen, with megaphones, and they're asking you, in power, three minutes to take in miners and listen to their advice and demands. Just in case, I want to remind you that today's extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council is to accept budget changes and allow miners to pay $1 billion 800 million in wages. And, in principle, it would be good for you to know what a poor salary you pay miners for hard work that protects Ukraine's energy independence. And the second. I want to remind you that the FOPs, small entrepreneurs, and they also asked you to meet for a few minutes, didn't give them two days. Since January 1, you have taken from them the system of work that they are accustomed to and that gives them the right to receive some money to support their families. To date, there has also been an emergency meeting of the Supreme Council to resume the FOPs, the individuals who are entrepreneurs, their system of work. More than 160 signatures have been collected, that's enough. But mysteriously, the MPs began to withdraw their signatures. 11 signatures have been revoked, and there are now no votes available for the extraordinary meeting. Now, there was a break, and we agreed that the Chief of the Supreme Council had the command to hand over the signed letters for further work. In just half an hour, we will collect these 11 signatures, which have been revoked under pressure, and we will insist that today there be an emergency session and return them to small entrepreneurs, as you, the authorities, have promised in your pre-election programs, the system of their work. Do not destroy Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u4	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Koltunovich. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Head. If anyone thinks something happened in this Supreme Council by accident, no. It is absolutely not a coincidence that the Order on Enunciating the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is adopted on the first day of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we did the same thing on December 29, 2019, sorry, August 2019. And what happened yesterday on the "Council" channel is certainly not beautifying all of us with you. And according to the confession and representatives of the "Serial of the People" faction, yesterday was at least a nice one, but as a maximum. Let me not mention the epithets that have been told to everyone. I want to make it clear to you that yesterday this issue was under consideration by the Committee on Freedom of Speech. And unanimously, I would stress, along with the votes of the national deputies of the People's Party Committee, the next decision has been taken. To encourage the management of the "Council" channel to further ensure compliance with the Ukrainian state-run television company's legislation, particularly attention! - Orders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Order of Enlightenment of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call", as well as the Statute of the State, I stress, the State Broadcasting Company "Parliamentary Channel "The Council" and respect the principles of impartiality, proportionality and parity of representatives of parliamentary factions, groups and non-fractional national MPs. There can't be anything else on this channel. What I'm saying is that our faction fully agrees with this principle and is in solidarity with this very vision and non-usurpation of any television channel that should inform the people of Ukraine of what is happening now and at this moment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And our faction supported and gave its signatures to convene an off-the-shelf session and to the miners, and to support the FOPs. And we hope that this will happen today. We have to work for people, and they need to know how we do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u6	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u7	Please pass the word to David of Arahama. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u8	David Georgiyovich Arahami, please, at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u9	Comrades, good afternoon. I'll be very brief. We had a meeting on a new, modernized one. The work of a new, modern TV channel called "The Council." We found out at this meeting that there were some violations of the decision we had taken in the hall during the first two days of our work. And together, we made a consensus decision to return immediately to the implementation of these decrees. I'm asking all political parties, not just the "Serve of the people," but everyone else, to move on to the agenda now. Pension reform awaits us today, and we have a great deal to offer today. We have industrial parks, we have a localization today that all industrialists are waiting for throughout the year. I remind everyone, we have a half day today and then tomorrow, and then there's no more, the Supreme Council will not be working this year. Let's spend as much time as we can with the benefit of our voters and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u10	The word is given to People's Deputy Pipi Natalia Romanovni, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u11	Good afternoon. Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv, Justice. Obviously, the "Council" channel should have the same time and the same objective policy for each MP and faction, and, yes, yesterday there were questions, and I ask them to change. But as an example of the Pleasure Channel, we see how much there was a picture that each of us would like to see better, and we wanted to see this channel. The same is true today with Ukrainian education: we all want to see this education differently. And I'm going to remind you of a new Ukrainian school that also needs to be upgraded and a better education environment, so these are classes, parties, materials, and definitely better filling. As we have a question about the content of the "Council" channel, there are even more questions about the content of education, that is, the content, the modern word, the education that we have today. First, a subsidy for NUSH. The other one. There are five. To a new Ukrainian school. There were a lot of questions and a list of the formulas for teachers ’ salaries. You know, this authority went with it: raise wages for teachers. Now they've admitted that there's 5 billion missing to supplement wages and regulate the formula to the regions. And that doesn't even raise questions about 822 of the Education Act or the Education Act. So I'm asking you very much to find, first of all, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, to find the funds, and so that we don't even have a question about teachers' salaries at last, and we were able to improve the education environment, that is, the way our schools look, and, above all, the content of the education of the New Ukrainian School.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u12	The word is given to Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u13	Dear Ukrainians! European Solidarity, along with other opposition factions, initiated an extraordinary meeting to address the issue of miners and FOPs. Because that's what the state needs to do. But the state is not up to this today, it is in the process of creating a state medium, even though there is a commitment by Ukraine to the Council of Europe on the dissipation of Ukrainian media, and our political team has done just that. And actually, as a journalist, it seems to me that there should never have been a repeat in the country on January 16. But today, December 16, we're not just talking to you about a gross violation of the Supreme Council's decree to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and about the mess and propaganda that the television channel has turned into, which is just supposed to inform society honestly about what's going on in the Council Channel, and yesterday there was no word about committee work. Yesterday, the briefings were blocked on live air, although this is the 13th paragraph of the Decree on Enlightenment of the Work of the Supreme Council, the opposition, in particular the MEPs "European Solidarity", "Paternal Solidarity", OPCW. No, it's much more serious. Did you know that last night, the Cabinet of Ministers transferred 13 million dollars from the legislative activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is our main job, to the Council Channel? I want to ask the deputies: did you vote for this? Did you know that at a time when our army doesn't have gas money, diesel fuel, when they didn't pay the doctors and the military, you voted to put 404 million dollars on the second floor of the halabud, which is now called the studio, in order to broadcast the lowest kind, not the information, but the propaganda. I want to tell all the voters: the honourable colleagues, the honourable Ukrainians, we will bring to each and every one of you the position that has voted in this session room. At a time when we have to deal with low-income families, FOPs, miners, this Council is voting for such instructions from the Bank, the creation of propaganda. She came into propaganda and lies and wanted to continue her life - style. And the last. It's a pity that there is no Mr. Lubinz here, but yesterday he betrayed millions of Ukrainian military personnel and displaced persons when he dared on the committee to order the Bank to draft a bill on the movers' status, the special status of the television channel "Dom", which Greensky promised us would work on occupied exclusive territory to fight for minds, and is trying to violate today's Law on Language, the Law on the Status of Migrants and Innovation, the foreign language of television to lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u14	The word is given to Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, the MP's Party for the Future. And then Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, after a half-hour meeting of the meeting of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have come out with such a mixed feeling, and yet we want to work in this room as the only working group that adopts laws for the benefit of the community and for the benefit of the people. Regarding the fact that the Supreme Council will not work for a month. The Supreme Council has to work, it will work with the electorate as the deputy of the Supreme Council, it will work on the committees. And in case of necessity, threats to national security or other threats, the Supreme Council, the entire MP Corps must meet immediately for the next session or for the next session in this session hall. Next. Parliament is not a face and Parliament is not a cartoon, and we are not cartoonists with you, we are legislators. And Parliament is the face of society. And it's obvious that the "Council" channel should be, not a cartoon or a cartoon, but a society's face. And as we believe, the "Council" channel should not pursue ratings, the mission of the "Council" is to reflect our work with you in a seamless manner, as we work in plenary mode, or in committee mode. That's why I think that after this tumultuous biannual discussion of all the heads of factions and groups and separate factions, we should bring the work of the Council to that decision that the Supreme Council has adopted. The Council Tele channel should work within the boundaries of morality and ethics and compliance with the decision adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to remind citizens and parliamentarians that our parliamentary group "For the Future" has gathered signatures, 160 signatures of the National Deputies on the convening, the immediate convening of an emergency session to discuss issues that concern our FOPs, our entrepreneurs, microenterprises. Because it's hard for them to survive right now under the conditions that are, nothing better and a relief to micro-enterprise globally has been or has not been decided. That's why we collected these signatures. But unfortunately, during the last day or half an hour, about 10 to 11 members of the Supreme Council withdrew their signatures. That's why we're asking the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to make another form of discussion there, but to translate it into a parliamentary room, this discussion, to give us signed letters to clarify so that we can pick up signatures that are not enough, and today, in a peaceful way, along with another non-challenging session, where we're going to help miners solve their debt issues, resolve the issue of the extension of the RRO, and in this way also help and remember our entrepreneurs, our ordinary citizens. Thank you. Let's work, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u16	Taras Ivanovich, if you please, a replica. It's already been released, it's back, so please, you can work. The word is given to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, a group called "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u17	Volodymyr Aresonkov, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it is certainly good that consensus, or common vision, solves some of the issues of conflict. The only thing we would ask very much is that this is not happening during the plenary session. All the issues that arise are to be resolved before, and we now have to work actively on the adoption of laws, because there are so many. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the individual speakers who have said that humanitarian, information policy is not a priority, it is not a priority, but an economic issue. No, today's situation in the country, social tension, disagreement between political parties and groups is the result of a low-level information campaign. That's why we're paying attention to the fact that the council channel, which is obviously supposed to work in modern format, because we were not in any way set up, let's say, with respect to our colleagues working on the TV channel, it wasn't attractive enough and interesting for most of the citizens of the country. So we need to make it modern, we need to bring to the population the issue of the work of the higher legislature, the Cabinet of Ministers, other central executive bodies in such a format that is accessible, understood. And that's the right thing to do is to reorganize. At the same time, we insist that there should be absolute concept and priority in highlighting the activities of all political parties and groups, whether it's the majority, it's the ruling group or it's the opposition. So that's the only way we're getting out of this position. What is involved in holding out-of-order meetings. The Trust MPs have signed their signatures, and we're going to demand that today the issue of payment of debts to Ukrainian miners be resolved. The question of the carbon economy is actually a separate topic. And we're asking the government to finally figure out the program in this direction. And finally, they're individuals who are entrepreneurs. Let us listen to people and make them comfortable and comfortable. This is our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we will then announce a recess. But before we announce the recess, I ask that the Rules Committee be instructed to meet tomorrow to consider a decree signed by all faction leaders and Parliament's leadership on the transfer of individual property that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the balance sheet of the Centre for the Services of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Signed, I repeat, by the leadership of Parliament and the leaders of all factions and groups. Dear colleagues, thank you. And on this, I announce a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. Let us go to their consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. So, honourable colleagues, the first Bill 5831 is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation governing the transplantation of anatomical materials to humans (5831). I invite you to serve as deputy chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance for Dmitri Oksana Alexandrovna. Please, Oksana Alexandrovna. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on repairs? Can I read it for you? All right, now. Will someone insist on repairs, dear colleagues? Dear colleagues, we're going after this bill. Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluk insists on his amendments. 5 revisions. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u20	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact, the bill is very important, and it is needed, not only by doctors, but by a large number of patients who are in line today. In the state, there are many experiences, and this is one of the Levian hospitals where professional doctors work. But we think that taking into account the changes that we have made with our team, the bill will become more effective. 5 revisions. In the second reading, it is suggested that the principle of keeping the order and keeping the order be replaced. Replacing is very significant because the authors destroy the unbreakable principle on which the entire civilised society is based where the transplant is carried out. We ask that this amendment be taken into account then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u21	Committee position, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u22	The edit is rejected because there is a queue position, it is clearly prescribed in the 22nd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u23	Are you insisting, Mikhail Mikhailovich? You insist, don't you? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the 5th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Cimbaluk. The committee's offering to reject it. You've heard the argument of the parties. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:02]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 14. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u24	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is about state information systems for transplantation. It's okay. It's The text that is proposed to be adopted is strangely out of the title of article 11 the word "states" disappears. With our permission, we offer to return the state to participate and control the information systems of transplantation and not to give this very important and sensitive field of medicine to the private or international corporations. The state is to ensure that one of the basic principles of transplantation is respected. The principle of decommercialization of organ transplants and other anatomical materials that are closely linked to the principle of succession. The state has to regulate this process and thus assume responsibility, including financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u25	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u26	The committee's amendment is rejected, because as far as organic transplantation is concerned, we have only a state registry, and as far as bone marrow transplantation is concerned, it's a world practice. And we have, like all over the world, non-state records of bone marrow donors. By the way, I'd like to invite you to join them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u27	Thank you. There's a need to bet, Mikhail Mikhailovich, isn't there? I'm betting on the vote of 14th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Tsimbaluk and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:59]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 28. Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u28	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, consider the content of this amendment. We add this right to the donor requirement of up to 18 years of age for parental consent and exclude the proposed standards for second reading that will contribute to abuse. We protect children’s rights, which can be abused by unrepentant doctors and other interested ones. In order not to turn our nation into a conveyor from the supply of anatomical materials for the world, as is already the case with donor blood, we stress that consent for removals for persons under the age of 18 should be given by parents or other legal representatives. By the way, the form of such consent has been approved by the Cabinet Order since December 27, 2018, at number 1211. And you don't have to create.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the 28th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Cimballuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:33]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next amendment is 30. Mikhail Mikhailovich, also yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u30	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, once again, I stress that the law itself is necessary, but think about what we are proposing only to protect Ukrainian citizens. It's about editing. The authors propose in this bill that consent to posthumous donation should be made electronically and not require a notary certificate. Can it be in any state? So anyone can say without your knowledge your consent to remove your organs. This is unacceptable, since under all international standards there is no possibility that both organ or tissue will be removed and transplanted without voluntary consent. This requires notary testimony of such voluntary consent or of close relatives, or individuals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the 30th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Cimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:10]] For-58 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of the people's deputy of Cymbaluk 50. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u32	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. What 50 revisions offer is the chapter "The End and Transitional Positions." It is suggested that we exclude the point where the authors say that the implementation of state health care guarantees from the provision of operational treatment for organ transplants and other anatomical materials is foreseen from April 1, 2023. Until then, go out and tell them that people will have to pay huge sums to carry out such operations. Then go out and tell me why. We demand that this law be, if it becomes valid after the day of approval, that these standards work out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, 50 amendments, it will be final, the national MP of the Cimbaluk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:53]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I still give the floor to Oksani Alexandrovny Dmitri because she still wants to announce the committee's decision. Please. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, which regulate the transplantation of anatomical materials to humans (registration number 5831). The bill, as defined in article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, received 62 amendments from 23 national deputies. Count -18, subtract -31, count -8 in part, and count -5 in editorial terms. In accordance with part one, paragraph 3, of article 123 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine governing transplantation, to adopt, in the second reading and as a whole, as a law in the proposed Committee of Editorials and to entrust the committee, when preparing the text of the law, with the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out joint work with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As the author of Amendment 17 to the Bill, I ask you to take into account some technical remedies. In paragraph 5 of paragraph 6, section I, paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transplantation of anatomical materials to man (project registration number 5831). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Ready? Please vote. [[12:46:56]] For 305 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Next piece of legislation, 5110, right? This is a bill amending article 161 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Anti-Semitism Prevention and Anti-Semitism Act in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? Yes, yes. Let us then vote on the simplified procedure for the consideration of this bill. I would like to take a vote on draft Bill 5110. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:47:49]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let's move on to the bill. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bujansky Maksim Arkadyovich. Please, Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the honourable presidency, thanks to you, thanks to our Parliament, the Bill 5109 that we have adopted has received tremendous international support. The Israeli Knesset, President of Israel, President of Germany, Secretary of State of the United States, expressed great gratitude to our country for doing so. Now we're looking at a technical satellite bill, which we're adding only two words to 161 of the Penal Code: anti-Semitism. I ask you all to support this bill. I also ask all of you, all the factions to support it as suggested by our committee: to accept as a foundation and as a whole. Sorry, there's nothing to change or add. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many disgraceful cases in our country are classified as mere hooliganism. I'm sorry, I don't want to see our country as a country of hoodlums. I want every crime, if any, to be named by name and to have consequences. I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the co-rapporteur, the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Danuz Alexandr Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u38	Colleagues, I won't delay your time. The Committee on Law Protection approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 161 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Anti-Semitism in Ukraine (registration number 5110) as a result of the first reading review to be adopted on a basis and as a whole. And I personally ask you to support this important bill, which is of a technical nature, but very important from a moral point of view, and this is a very important signal to the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u41	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, this bill is not really very technical, as our colleagues have presented it. Moreover, I would like to remind you that there are about 20 per cent of national minorities living in Ukraine, more than 10 million according to the 2001 census. I would also like to remind you that, for example, in the Odessa region there are about 150 representatives of different national minorities, to whom discrimination, in principle, or violation and accusation of honour and dignity leads us to 161 articles of the Criminal Code. This means that if you insult the Hague, you must be criminally responsible; if you insult a Moldovan citizen, you too must be responsible; if you insult a Romanian but a Ukrainian, you have responsibility. I'm very surprised and sorry that in this way, by trying to protect some representatives, we're actually rejecting others without paying attention to them. Since the article itself is complete and sounds, it says this: That deliberate actions aimed at fueling national, racial, or religious hostility and hatred will lead to the humiliation of national honor and dignity under article 161 of the Criminal Code. Question: Why do we isolate only one national minority who in Ukraine feels exactly at peace, with respect, and with love for them? You know, it seems to me that Ukraine was originally a state where power was in diversity, and I wouldn't want the Supreme Council to bring us things that are breaking the state into pieces. Moreover, I would very much like the Supreme Council to finally pay attention and we would call on the Bundestag of Germany and, in addition, the Duke of Israel to recognize the Holocaust as genocide. Because our partners, unfortunately, do not see it, and they stubbornly do not acknowledge that Holodomor was the genocide of the Ukrainians. Thank you. We'll be against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u43	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jakimenko Paul Vitaliovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u44	I'm asking you to give the word to Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u45	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we are considering this law in the first reading with discussion. I don't really know what to talk about here. Why are we discussing things that are widely known, publicized, and popular throughout the world? Anti-Semitism is evil. An evil that had the most terrible manifestations in the 20th century. This is Babin Yar, who we had in Kiev, in my hometown. Recently, the Jews of Ukraine celebrated Hanukkah. During the first six days, six traditional candles were destroyed, which they installed as a sign of honor, to mark the celebration of this festival. We have no anti-Semitism, we are tolerant of any nation. But it's not hooliganism, it's anti-Semitism that we have to evaluate both publicly and legally. We cannot tolerate such expressions in any way with you. So I ask you to support this bill with a green button as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u47	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Tchaikovsky Ivan Adamovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u49	Dmitri Lubinets. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u50	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of this bill and support it on the basis. I would like to take this opportunity to comment on what happened on the committee yesterday, and some national deputies today mentioned my name. So I want to tell everyone that our "For the Future" MP group and I have always advocated the development of Ukrainian national language. Last night at our committee meeting, there was really a piece of paperwork that would allow the House to become an all-Ukrainian channel, a channel like the Russian-speaking one. Those people right now who are yelling "disgusting" want only one so there's no competition in the information plan. Dear colleagues, the Home Channel is currently making a product for the occupied territory, and it's really doing it in Russian. As soon as it becomes an all - Ukrainian channel, it will fall under the Television Act and include quotas: 75 percent of the products on this channel will be in Ukrainian according to the applicable legislation, according to the ruling and clarification of the Constitutional Court. What you're doing is manipulation. It's only done for one reason: you don't want to compete in information. And when you come to Donbas, everyone will tell you that Lubinian has always spoken in English. Both the MPs and this Parliament are speaking for our national interests. So I urge everyone not to engage in such provocations, to support this bill and to vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u51	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u52	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u53	Vladimir Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u54	Thank you for your welcome! First of all, I want to continue with one of the previous speakers. And really anti-Semitism is a terrible evil to fight. And Ukraine is fighting anti-Semitism, fighting effectively. In fact, sociological surveys show that in Ukraine the lowest level of anti-Semitism among European countries is because Ukraine has all the necessary legislative tools. 166. Article 166 of the Criminal Code allows us to fight any manifestation of national hostility on national soil. So any attempt to talk more about additional anti-Semitism tools is unfortunately an update of Russian mosques on fascists in Ukraine, anti-Semitism in Ukraine. Now let me answer that. The previous speaker. Trying to turn the House into a national television channel, putting it into a universal programming service -- it's an attempt to ruse Ukraine, it's an attempt to create a state-owned Russian channel. We're not going to let that happen because your home is Russia, our homeland is Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u55	Vladimir Yuriovich Aris, oh, my God, Aresonkov, I'm sorry. Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. Dear colleagues, after that, who else will be? Nestor Ivanovich, right, I see? Yes, Nestor Ivanovich. And then we go to the vote. I can't give two from one faction. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u56	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. I read literally, "There can be no privileges or restrictions based on the signs of race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin, property status, place of residence, language or other characteristics." It's for those of you who ask what this bill is about. This is about the implementation of article 24 of our Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine. Is anti - Semitism a phenomenon in Ukraine today? Yes. We have to talk about it too. Do we have to do everything as legislators to make these manifestations impossible? You too. So the trust MP thinks that the bill is absolutely faithful, along with 5,109 need to be considered, it complements and completes it, and we will vote for it and we call on everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, me. Schofrich or Skork — Who? Spark, please. People's MP Skork. Then there's National Deputy Krulko. And then we go to the vote. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, you know, I've heard all the speeches carefully. Of course, our faction will support the bill. Anti - Semitism is unacceptable in the Ukrainian State. But it seems to me that manifestations of hatred against other nationalities, and I think that in previous speeches there have been manifestations of hatred against other nationalities, I think that Russians are nothing different from other nationalities, and to make such statements, absolutely humane, with regard to other nationalities, is the inflamation of international hostility. I'm asking you to take this seriously. We also need to understand that when this is done, it is done to the detriment of the Ukrainian State. We have all nations equal before the law, making such statements is absolutely unacceptable. Of course, our faction will support the bill. I also believe that we should honor the memory of the Holocaust victims by a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u59	Yes, let's pay homage. And then I'll give Ivan Ivanovich that. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. The word is given to Ivan Ivanovich Krulk, the "Fatherland" faction, please. Then we go to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u60	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. Our team has always stood up and acted against the manifestations of any kind of hatred towards each other. We oppose the manifestations of anti - Semitism because we believe that every evil, not only must it be punished, but evil and must not be forgotten, especially if crimes committed against mankind are committed, when genocide is committed according to the signs of a particular nationality. But at the same time, I think that we, as the Ukrainian Parliament, must fight against all manifestations of Ukrainianophobia, hatred of Ukrainians and demand the recognition of the Holocaust by genocide of the Ukrainian people at all levels. And those who deny it should remember that no genocide that was committed against any nationality, and that the Holocaust was committed against the Ukrainians to destroy them, cannot be forgotten, must be honored, and we have against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the committee's proposal to the vote first as a basis, then, if there's potential, in general. I'll bet you an offer first. I would like to propose a draft Act amending article 161 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Anti-Semitism Prevention and Anti-Semitism Act in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:03:53]] For-300 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can I put it all together? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the "ES" faction against it, so I'm sorry, I can't, my friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the point of narrowing it down? We'll have the next meeting in a month. Do you want to cut it? Come on, dear friends. Well, there's an offer, I have to put it to a vote. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 5110, is the draft Act amending article 161 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Anti-Semitism in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:05:05]] For 279 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Please, Motovlover from the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies! I propose to change the way laws are considered, to put to the vote the following laws: 6055, 6429, 6302, 5688, 5689, 3739, 4358, 5719, 5223, 2064, 6273. Please put this question to the vote. Please consider these laws in accordance with the cited numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u63	Thank you. Andrew Viktorovich, I have one question. Not 5223 - 5323, probably. Yeah. Well, then, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 1 minute. Please, on this proposal. Please, OPCW – 1 minute, then Soboljev – 1 minute. Who? Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u64	I'm sorry, the honourable national deputies, every day the leaders, the deputies form the agenda, the Conciliation Council passes, and we change things all the time. Is it possible to increase the quality of day - to - day arrangements? It is impossible to prepare for the first and last bills at the same time. Let's say that if any of the People's Servants get preferences, let's give all the opposition factions and parties a chance to meet and take them into account. It is impossible to accept and make constant changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. After that, Bobrovsky. And then Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. And let's go to the vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction is definitely against any transfer, especially when it's done by dozens of bills where names are confused, numbers. Please, every bill that is passed: the title of the bill, which is the number, and then vote separately. We don't need this farm, we've been going through the cologne, what's done, everybody remembers. So the request for each bill to go separately, but we understand why we're now gathering a session: to reduce the tax on the gaming business. You're not. So we have a big request: each bill individually, and let each faction be determined. To whom little of what they collect in the game business, we consider it a crime against the Ukrainian people, so we ask to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, Bobrovska Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, you know, what I'm going to ask in this room is not about any skin issue, none. It's not about economics and budget sharing, it's about our historical memory, which, unfortunately, we didn't even get to talk, accept, and appeal to the German Bundestag about the genocide of the Holocaust of Ukraine because it doesn't matter to us. In the past 10 years, unfortunately, only two countries have made progress because Parliament has done so. Let's do Parliamentary Diplomacy, please, and 5032 of the Bill of Appeal to the German Bundestag, which are our great partners, will finally acknowledge that not only are we being asked to admit something, but we have also been recognized as genocide by our Holocaust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u69	Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Then Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov. And then we go to voting for proposals. First there will be the offer of Motovilovtsa, then the proposal by Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u70	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! I fully support the offer of colleagues from Voice to begin our consideration after this transfer and to consider the First Law of the Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Bundestag of the Federal Republic of Germany regarding the recognition of the Holocaust by genocide. This is huge: 5032 the first question. And also, Ruslan Alexiyovich, please add the second question, I would like to emphasize -- secondly, to consider Bill 6104, 6104-1 on the social and legal protection of persons who are found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their families. Let's finally consider the hostage bill, we'll take it at least on the first reading. Thank you. Start with these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u71	I understand your offer. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u72	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, a suggestion was made regarding a change in the consideration of matters of the order of the day. But along with the right laws that the state really needs, they're also now trying to raise laws that pose high corruption risks, let's call things our names. And the balances they want to break today, including in the taxation system. So it was good to have Soboljev's proposal, if I'm not mistaken, that Sergey Vladislavovich look at the question of how to change the order of affairs at this plenary session. Each individual shall vote and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but I'll bet as they came. The first proposal that came from the national deputy Motovilovtsa Andrija Viktorovich now comes to this consideration: 6055, 6429, 6302, 5688, 5689, 3739, 4358, 5719, 5323, 2064, 6273. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this motion to a vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:11:57]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, all the other proposals are still being taken, but we can do some later. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to add to the request for recognition of the Holocaust. Let's take it step by step, first of all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, one moment, please, I will now specify what you're asking. Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, there's still an offer that I understand is also supported, and it's been announced. After all, before we go to 6055, look at 5032 (this Address to Bundestag) and 6,104 (this is the hostage president). Dear colleagues, this proposal is made to begin with and then to move on to those who have been bugged. Ready to vote? Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:13:53]] For 329 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Bill 5032. Now, one second, I'll find him. It's a decree. Dear colleagues, can we vote without discussion? Come on. Dear colleagues, let me immediately propose to adopt the entire draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Bundestag of the Federal Republic of Germany on the recognition of the Holocaust in 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian people (No. 5032). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:14:53]] For 331 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill, 6104, is the Presidential Bill. This is a draft of the Law on Social and Legal Protection for Persons Who have been found to be deprived of personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their families. This is the first reading, this is 6104, 6104-1. Is there a need to discuss, or can we accept? Discuss. Then let's think about the simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please support. [[13:15:42]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Korinevich Anton Alexandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u74	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I have the honour to present today a bill on social and legal protection for persons who have been found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their families (No. 6104), submitted by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council and defined as urgent. A bill that had been pending for almost eight years for thousands of civilians and prisoners of war, their families, who had been victims of illegal acts by the Russian Federation and its occupying authorities. Among our citizens who are illegally detained by the Russian Federation are activist Galina Dougopola, volunteer of Ludmila Huseynov, lawyer of the Mustaphaev server, journalist Radio Liberty Vladislav Sipenko, military officer Yuri Djachenko, first deputy of the Head of Majlis Crimean Tatar people Nariman Jjellalov, who was arrested by the occupying forces in Crimea for actually participating in the establishment of the Crimean Platform on 23 August of this year in Kiev. The issue of the protection of our citizens affected by the Russian Federation's armed aggression is one of the priorities of Ukraine's state policy and, in particular, its policies on the occupation and reintegration of Crimea. This is clearly stated in Crimea's Depopulation and Reintegration Strategy, which was adopted in March of this year in the form of a presidential decree. The release of our citizens from captivity, unfortunately, is not always up to us, but the decision to support the captives and their families can be made now. The bill provides for, inter alia, the identification of the categories of persons who are subject to the law: prisoners of war and civilians, as well as members of their families; the establishment and authorization of commissions for the establishment of personal freedom and the procedure for making decisions on these issues; the creation of a register of persons, the provision of financial assistance to such persons and members of their families and other forms of assistance, and much more. The bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Professional Integration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and many public organizations. Most importantly, it's a bill about people. We ask the national deputies to support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u75	Thank you. I invite Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, this is a special subject for me. Working in the humanitarian subgroup, along with my colleagues, I released hundreds of Ukrainian hostages illegally held in the prisons of the occupied Donbas, Crimea, and Russian Federation. And in fact, today, the release of hostages is blocked. Even though we are in opposition, we are responsible for this, both for the Russian Federation and for the murder of Putin. But we're taking responsibility for Zelensky's handing over to the Russian Federation of Cemacha, the Berkutites, all those who were interested in Russia, and he never kept his promise to exchange them all. And it's up to you, colleagues, that we have a responsibility that you're only considering the issue of guarantees to families right now, because the previous Parliament has passed a bill on the status of hostages and their assistance to families in the first reading, and you've blocked the question for two years. What is the difference between the Greens Bill, which essentially took all our work, and our alternative? What we're proposing is that all the hostage lists and social security guarantees should be run by the Ministry of Reintegration, which receives funding, has the right state to do so. Green proposes to create another body of executives to take care of this. And then what does the Minister and her ministry do: go through the channels to criticize the opposition and take care of the House TV channel? Because strangely enough, the House, which is supposed to be fighting for minds in occupied areas, is today doing the government's budget along with the profile committee that's doing it, and it doesn't care at all about the hostages' issues of their families. Well, there's a person in this room who comes into the humanitarian subgroup after me, and I'd like to hear from this person publicly at least a report: so what does the humanitarian subgroup that you've released, who you're releasing, who you're working on, who you're working on, who you're releasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, there is a need. Oh, I'm sorry. I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the City of Sevastopol, the National Minorities and the International Relations of Lubinci Dmitr Valeriovich. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u78	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 20 October this year considered two bills: 6104, submitted by the President, and 6,104, an alternative. And I've decided to support the basic bill of 6104. I would also like to comment on the conclusion of the GNEU. There's a general conclusion to both bills, but there's a reference to both proposed initiatives, but to the core, we think that in preparing for the second reading, they can be taken into account. The main bill is also supported by the Human Rights Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Defence, the Office of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Ukrainian Security Service. So we recommended in our conclusion that we support 6,104, the basic bill. And I would like to take this opportunity as the chairman of the committee to state that this initiative is not new. Thank you, however, for the time has finally come for our Parliament to vote and show that we support the families of people imprisoned by the Russian Federation, both in temporarily occupied territories and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We should show that we do not forget our own and support our own. Thank you. I'd like everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue, or should we vote on it and save time? Dear colleagues, let's vote. Dear colleagues, I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] You want to talk, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Okay. Let's write it down: two in, two in, two in. Arthur Volodymyrovich, we just have so many important bills. We'll log in, we'll write it down, you'll skip it. Of course, Irina Volodymyr is just like that. The word is given to the national deputy to Danuci Alexander Anatolyevich, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u80	Please give the floor to your colleague Tarasenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u81	Taras Tarasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u82	Your Honor, fellow MPs! Taras Tarasenko, "Slut of the People" party. Unfortunately, the occupation of our territories is ongoing. Our citizens are now continuing to retain occupation power in Donetsk, Lugansk, and the Crimea. And we, as a nation, as authorities, should take care of their families in Ukraine. I'm asking everyone not to waste time, but to immediately adopt this bill, shorten deadlines so that in eight years of war we can finally help our citizens and protect them from occupation and disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy Ustinsky Alexandri Yuriyevna, the Voice faction. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Samantha Bobrowski, Justice Union. It's a long time ago and a long-needed bill. And, you know, I've had a lot of experience being with freed hostages who spent a lot of time in the basements and in places of captivity in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. And I want to tell you about those emotions of people who were and lived in communal state camps outside Kiev, who had no clothes to change into, who had situational food brought by volunteers, and so on, and to which Kabmin had a very long business, because there was no money allocated, and people didn't know where to go. What is more, if they were younger people, they didn't know how to do how to stay in Kiev or in areas, there was no program of action, there was no map of what to do, what to do next, especially if they were a kind of or living in occupied territory temporarily occupied. And I'd really like to have the money to finally find them not six months after they've gone out, and God will give them out, and they'll come out, and they'll come out of captivity, and they'll be the people who have this money and they'll understand how to move on and live. So, of course, it's definitely for that. And I would ask the Kabmin, especially the government departments that care about it, not to draw money and compensation, but immediately, to the extent that these people are free, to give them social and state support, and the law in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The word is given to the National Deputy Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of Fatherland. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u86	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honorable Colleagues! In fact, a bill is essential, although late, it has been approved in two and a half years and has become valid. If you analyze the basic bill and the alternative bill, the alternative is more balanced. Moreover, he has a clear estimate of how many people were in the shades of the Russian Federation. But there's another way to think about it: if we support the main one, it needs to be worked out by taking into account those points and specific proposals that are still contained in the alternative. Moreover, the President's bill has been written illiterately, and I refer to those who, on behalf of the President, submit such bills. There the basic mechanism for providing social assistance to those who have been released or released is entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers can develop order, not the basic one that should contain the law. Next thing. There are many inaccuracies that relate to the inclusion of internships as social internships, the social protection of those persons, and the period in which they were held in the shadows of the Russian Federation. And in conclusion, the honourable authorities, finally begin the process of freeing those people from the shadows -- that's the most important thing today. Because 130 is not really what they are, and that's what everybody's doing. The "Paternity" team will vote in the first reading, and the second will be amended to make the law more perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u87	The word is given to the people's deputy Bakuntz, I understand that, right? Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec. Then there's the National Deputy Ionov, and we're going to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Bacon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u88	Dear national deputies, Mr. Head! My name is Paul the Bakunets; I represent the Lvivshite, namely the Gibeonite, the Jaborite. This is the land from which nearly eight years ago, when the war began in the east, volunteers traveled to protect our land. This is the land from which the legendary 24 brigades came. This is the land, like many other countries, other areas of our country, of which thousands of our relatives, acquaintances, and friends first went to the first moment of mobilization and traveled to protect our home land. For eight years now, there's a war going on, and they're still protecting us with you and our communities in eastern Ukraine in a war with an aggressor. Sadly, there were those who had been captured. Someone was released from captivity, someone still hundreds, and thousands are in captivity. For example, the inhabitants of Yavorov Volodymyr Lakomsky were captured, the whole family and the city prayed for him, and he was released from captivity. It has been years since then, but unfortunately, the state has forgotten about him: he has not received any benefits, he cannot even obtain a certificate of rehabilitation, a certificate of disability that he has received as a result of the injuries inflicted upon him by our enemy. So I urge you today to adopt this bill, to allow our prisoners of war, our heroes, their families to receive proper assistance from the state, to receive adequate benefits and proper recognition. Praise our heroes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u89	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, please, Jonah. And then we move on. And then there's the Lubinian, and then we're going to the vote. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, we warmly welcome the fact that, after all, at the equator of our calling, we have finally reached the question of the Kremlin’s supporters. Indeed, there are over 450 citizens in the occupied territories and in the Crimea. And unfortunately, our alternative bill has been rejected, which has a more effective and adequate approach, which means that the larger one has a function that will be implemented, because we don't need this bill for a branch. And the key value in our country is also rights and freedoms. And we have to provide a complete set of legal mechanisms that will allow for the election and protection of the rights of our citizens. Our team has released more than three thousand of our citizens from captivity, and I would very much like the authorities to continue and report. And this is a question that unites us, and we are ready to work together. In the eighth call, there was a good initiative -- the Minsk Platform, where all the leaders of the subgroups, they came and informed what was going on, and we worked together on legislative decisions. I'd like to go back to this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u91	Please, the final word is lube. And then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I'll check it out. Wait a minute, I'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Ruslan Alexiyovich, I also inform you that at our committee meeting we have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to vote and shorten the deadlines for submitting amendments and proposals to the bill during its preparation for the second reading. Please note this and put this proposal to the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The MP's Party for the Future will also vote in favour of this bill. And we want to show that we support Ukrainian citizens, their families, while one of our citizens is behind bars, the so - called Kremlin rivets. Therefore, I thank all the national deputies who have joined in the discussion. I ask the entire Parliament to vote in favour of this legislative initiative: 6,104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u93	Thank you. Also, I'm sorry, from the C.I.C.C. Coltunovich. And then we go to the vote. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! In fact, no one would mind financially supporting the supported ones and others who have suffered as a result of conflict in the areas of the areas of Donetské and Luhanské. However, the president, who initiates such things, has to say frankly that he is blocking the release, personally, of the detained persons that we have had the opportunity to exchange as soon as possible. Why doesn't he ever say that he blocked the exchange of four women who could have been traded by Victor Medvedchuk another year ago? Why does he not mention that it was Victor Medvedchuk who freed nearly a thousand detainees in previous years as a special representative of Ukraine in the Tripartite Contact Group from settling the situation in Donbas? That's what we have to do. Above all, paragraph 6 of the Minsk Treaty Implementation Package states: To ensure the release and exchange of all detainees according to the principle of everyone. That's what's most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. We've concluded this discussion, we're moving on to a decision. I propose to the committee to adopt the draft Law on Social and Legal Protection of Persons Who have been found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their families. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:35:18]] For 328 Decision taken. I mean, there's still an offer to cut the line, right? The committee made a proposal in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. I am voting for a proposal to cut down half the deadlines for proposals and amendments and prepare for the second reading of Bill 6104 is the draft Law on Social and Legal Protection for Persons who have been found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their families. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:36:08]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the plan. 6055, Honorable Colleagues, Bill. It is a draft of the National Commission Act, which regulates national electronic communications, radio spectrum, and postal services, which is a second reading. I invite the deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee, Federenko Alexander Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, who will insist on the amendments? Ariev, right? There was an agreement, I think, one minute and everyone's making corrections. Oh, two minutes. Please, Vladimir Ariev. And then we go to the vote. Thank you. Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, first of all, about the regulator. I've always said one thing: if we want apples to disappear, let's do an apple regulator. As long as it works, it works well. Nevertheless, these are our obligations under the Association Agreement, so it must be done. But let's not try to regulate what works and work properly. I mean, there's an attempt to put a full postal connection under the control of this regulator. That is, not universal postal connections, that is, those to which all citizens should have access, but all of them. Citizens’ access to postal services and other operators are regulated by the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. But it's this regulator that we have to vote for today that has to make sure that a country-specific postal operator has to provide quality services regardless of where the consumer is. That's why I understand that maybe there's something in the regulator that's trying to get completely out of the way right now after the discussions, but soon there's going to be a second reading of the Post Service Bill in the Supreme Council. And if we regulate this, we're going to lose our postal services, because today Ukraine is clearly not reaching, and private postal services are actually providing the entire circulation of postal services for Ukrainian citizens. Let us not leave the citizens of Ukraine without quality postal services in the future bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, one more minute Klimpush-Cincadze. And let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u98	My colleagues, I am sorry that, unfortunately, the profiling committee did not take into account the amendment proposed in accordance with the directive of the European Union by our committee, precisely the implementation of the directive in the form that this regulator would have to regulate truly exclusively universal services. All these amendments were not taken into account. I would really like to express under the transcript the expectation that this insistence will be reflected in the Postal Liaison Bill, and we will, in effect, solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of this bill, so please take your seats. I propose that the committee adopt a draft National Commission Law on Electronic Communications, Radio Spectrums and Postal Services (project registration number 6055) on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:40:31]] For 296 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Next bill, 6429. Can we not discuss this, dear colleagues? It's a decree, yes. Therefore, Your Honor, with your permission, 6429 Order. I propose to adopt the entire draft Order amending the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 6429). Dear colleagues, ready. I've already set it up. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 6429). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:42:07]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, welcome! Let's see the factions. Next, Bill 6302. This is a draft of the Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the tasks and bases of preparation and conduct of national opposition. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then let us vote on the issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:42:58]] For 256 Decision taken. I invite a member of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of Fedor Vladimirovich Venislavski. Four minutes, from the committee and from the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to remind you that on July 16, this year, on the last day of our previous session of our Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have adopted a very signistic, and we can say, the historic Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition, which established the legislative basis for the functioning of the Territorial Defence Force and the Resistance Force. That bill, which is now being proposed for your consideration, 6302, aims to clarify some of the tasks of the resistance movement in the temporarily occupied territories. Given that the resistance movement is a very sensitive area, which is directly related to the safety and health of Ukraine's citizens who will be involved in resistance movement, it is necessary to make changes to certain legislative acts of Ukraine and to clarify the position of purchasing goods for resistance and national resistance in general, with a view to making them a public secret. There is also a need to clarify some of the powers of the Force of Special Operations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to prepare for the movement of resistance in the temporarily occupied territory. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on 17 November this year supported the bill, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and reduce it by half. recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine shorten the deadline for the submission of legislative proposals and amendments to this bill. Please be supportive. This is a very important bill that establishes a instrumental aspect of resistance to Russian aggression and provides security and information for our national security of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Zinkevich Jan, please. She's Zinkiewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u103	Mikhail Zabrodsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, of course, the implementation of our National Resistance Act and, in particular, the formation of the Territorial Defence Force, and it is also proposed for your consideration, 6302, aims to clarify some of the tasks of resisting the temporary occupation. Given that the resistance movement is a very sensitive area, which is directly related to the safety and health of Ukraine's citizens, who will be involved in the movement of resistance, it is necessary to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine and to clarify the position of purchasing goods for resistance and national resistance in general with a view to making them public secret. There is also a need to clarify some of the powers of the Force of Special Operations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to prepare for the movement of resistance in the temporarily occupied territory. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on 17 November this year supported the bill, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and reduce it by half. recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine shorten the deadline for the submission of legislative proposals and amendments to this bill. Please be supportive. This is a very important bill that establishes a instrumental aspect of resistance to Russian aggression and provides security and information for our national security of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Zinkevich Jan, please. She's Zinkiewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u107	Mikhail Zabrodsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, of course, the implementation of our National Resistance Act and, in particular, the formation of the Territorial Defence Force, as well as other structures, are very important steps in the development of our security and national security system. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the minister’s professional deputy and to wish him as soon as possible to contribute to the allocation of adequate funds for the deployment of the relevant authorities, such as the Territorial Defence Force. It's also a wish. Transfer to the State Property Fund. It's about the law itself. Undoubtedly, we are removing a number of points that we were missing during the drafting of the basic bill. But one of the most important, in my view, is the proposal proposed in article 3 of this law. In particular, this is a definition of resistance tasks that will be developed and validated by the Cabinet. This situation is very controversial because in the same law we clearly determine that the leading role in the organization of preparation and support and the conduct of the resistance movement belongs only to the Forces of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. On the one hand, we all know that the resistance movement is a higher pilot of this war. It's more complicated than any rocket bomb or famous 24 mechanized brigade. And any collegiality can only harm the case. On the other hand, politically speaking, we're talking about a structure that's going to be expanded and shaped and functioning in peacetime, and giving more control over it to someone outside the Ukrainian Armed Forces is very and very dangerous. It is our desire to keep this in mind, to consider the law for the second reading, and, of course, to support it in the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, welcome to the words of Rostislav Jaroslavovich Tistik, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u110	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please give the word to Alexander Zawidnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u111	Please, Vicar Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, as my committee colleagues have said, the law is very important, though small, not only in technical terms, but actually in powers and for the Cabinet of Ministers, and for the military authorities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and they were talking about special operations forces. Please support me, because we're all investigating what's going on outside our borders, along our borders, so these initiatives are huge. And really, to the second reading, those little comments that are, of course, the committee we're going to work on and approach the second reading in the best, balanced version. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. And then Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. And then we're going to vote. Please, Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, indeed, the Law on the Fundamentals of National Opposition is a very important law that has been passed by us and, in particular, has been defined as a law that increases our defenses. And really at the moment when we accepted it, we paid a lot of attention there to the territorial defense, but we immediately agreed that we would then introduce more authority and regulate the actions of the resistance, because it's these actions, they're key after, don't give God, there might be an invasion of our territory. What Is a Resistance Movement? This, by explaining to our citizens, is the guerrilla forces that will work in the occupied territory if the enemy dares to take over our territory. And this is a very important law to which we give the right and, in particular, to the Special Operations Force. But taking the opportunity of standing here, I would like to say that the law goes into effect on January 1st, and to urge all concerned citizens to join the formation of territorial defense, to join the formation of a resistance movement, and only by such unification and by showing that we don't care about our country will we be able to show the enemy that any of their plans to attack our country can break down as soon as they want them. that they may enter into force. That's why the Voice faction supports this bill and we're going to be working on improving these institutions. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u115	Heroic glory! The word is given to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, a group called "Trust". And then there's Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich and Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u116	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, of course, the bill is extremely important, coming from the fact that we are today as a state and as a society in such a state, that it is not simply necessary to recognize the threat that exists not only in the first year, which concerns the preservation of our state as such, its territory and its integrity, but the awareness that the issue of national resistance is a matter of ensuring that all our military personnel, those who carry out special tasks, those who help defend our borders in particular areas, are a common task. And I want to point out in this regard the active actions today and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, and the workers, and the units of local self-government and territorial defence in areas and places. In recent times, this work has been extremely active, fruitful, so the bill highlights and refines certain positions that will allow for effective and interacting, and act as a force for national defence and resistance. As a member of the Trust Group, it is extremely important that the issues of financing and ensuring the movement of resistance, including payments and payments to military personnel, are clarified. Finally, they are to receive an appropriate and worthy salary for that important mission, for the important function they are performing today in defending our home country. The Trust MP group is urging everyone to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, Party for the Future. After that, Krulko Ivanovich. Then Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u118	Dear Ukrainians, this is an extremely important Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition, adopted by the Supreme Council in July. But this is just the first step. 6302 is step number two. And it must be followed by a number three step that unites the national resistance system with the national stability system. This is a set of measures that will allow the entire population of Ukraine in the territory of our nation to create territorial defence in all areas and areas, and in an area beyond our control, the resistance movement, the guerrilla movement. We've got to take the enemy's back, and that's how we're going to defend our territory. Our MP group is asking to vote on the basis as a whole. And as a representative of the SSO in Parliament, I call on a colleague: sign an SSO contract for the first round and for the New Year, visit our boys on the front line, find out what you need and what you didn't know before.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u119	Please welcome Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Next, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. And let's go to the vote. People's deputies, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u120	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, which refers to increasing resistance and its support. Because in fact, if we're talking about liberating the territories occupied by the Russian Federation at the Donbassa and the Crimea, the basis for this liberation should be exactly the resistance movement so that for the invader -- the Russian Federation -- is intolerable, absolutely intolerable to keep these territories where a strong resistance movement will take place. Just as when Soviet troops occupied Ukraine, by the mid-50s, the resistance movement in Western Ukraine was so strong that the fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army that it was absolutely intolerable for the encavedists to do anything there. We must fight any occupation and liberate our territories, because Ukraine must be the only one and be restored in its territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u121	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u122	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the sense of resistance, believe me, is determined not by law, but by the state of the spirit and the power of the will. And as Minister for Emergency Situations, I want to tell you that since the adoption of this law in January and February, nothing will change from what is today to December 16. But the fact that the adoption of this law is now premature or premature or late, but it will provoke an appropriate response, believe me. Today everyone is guilty of Ukrainian authority: both Putin and Biden and Mr. Merkel, as they ceased to be in power. Well, you can't bend the skin of a bear at the same time and put a white-headed eagle on a feather, so let's be alone. And today we need to be careful and eliminate the cause of the threat, not the consequences of the cause. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the tasks and bases of preparation and conduct of national opposition (project registration number 6302). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, once again. I would like to vote on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the tasks and bases of preparation and conduct of national resistance (project registration number 6302). Please vote. [[13:57:43]] For 308. Thank you, Your Honor. What, a shortcut? Come on, all right. Because I spoke to the head of the committee, he said you couldn't cut it. However, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of Bill No. 6302. This is a draft of the Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the tasks and bases of preparation and conduct of national opposition. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:58:29]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now, just a second. First Jupanin, he picked up because there's a letter. Out of procedure, please, Heroshenko. And then the Dwarves. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u125	God, come on, the Mayor's already started. The parishioner's first of the procedure, then Heroschenka. Please turn on the parishioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u126	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Asking you to change the order of the day and to go to the 3790 bill, this law should have been passed last year. We have six faction leaders on changing the order of the day, and this bill is under review. The law was to be passed last year, we delayed its adoption for a year, and it is critical that we do so by January 1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, there is a letter from the faction leaders. Will there be a denial to vote now 3790? Dear colleagues, there won't be. So let's vote first to see 3,790 and then immediately vote it. I would like to make a suggestion to consider Bill 3790. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:00:02]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, as we have agreed, I immediately propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on transparency in extractive industries (registration number 3790). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:00:46]] For 344 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. It's a beautiful unity. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the day. Act 5688. Oh, Hero, my God, I'm sorry. Irina Volodymyrna, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to inform you, and I've sent you a text now, a message from the Council, and your photo and cloak are going, "The Supreme Council of Ukraine has declared the Holocaust a genocide of the Ukrainian people." Can we remind the Supreme Council and the Council Channel that we recognized as genocide in 2007? And you can, by making arrangements for our morning meeting with you, not the people on the street, but the team that works there to avoid outsourcing when people who don't work on the council channel don't carry that threshold? Yesterday, these people called Mrs. Contratenko, Vice-Spyer of the Ukrainian Parliament. I mean, right now, we've got the Council on the TV, not people who are mostly on a regular schedule, but who's outsourcing, who doesn't know the specifics, who's overstepping the laws that we've adopted. And this is all a gross violation of what's going on here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we go to Bill 5688, 5688-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create favourable conditions for large-scale investment in industrial production. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please. [[2:02:42]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Come on. Then I invite you to the words of the Ukrainian national deputy Nataluh Dmitr Andriyovich as a reporter, author of the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u130	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker, dear colleagues! My name is Dmitry Nataluha, and I'm a lobbyist of industrial parks, as I'm called here, which I'm not ashamed of. You know, in this room, we keep hearing that we're very often cornered in business, and nothing does this room except how it screws up. I want to tell you, it's time to get these groves started, and it's time to make those concessions for the business that we're always talking about here, that everyone here supports. But today we have the opportunity to even vote for it. I have the key to spreading these groves -- these are two draft localization laws. about industrial parks 5688 and 5689. What are industrial parks, friends, and what is the special advantage of these bills? We already passed a framework law with you three months ago. I want to tell you that in three months, the process of creating 24 new industrial parks has started in 13 areas. These 24 new industrial parks, which began their creation, account for a total of 884 million dollars. Colleagues, that's three months from now. This is because by the time we introduce the basic incentives, we still have a little less than half a year. This bill, 5688, is what is lacking in business today to make more money. We're going to take away ten years of tax revenue from all the residents of industrial parks. This is a completely unheard-of story throughout our history. And I'm asking very much for business, both Parliament and the government to support this initiative in the first reading and then in the second reading and in general. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u131	Thank you. I'm also very glad that this bill came because I was already sorry how much you're carrying with this key. So thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national MP Ruššišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, the author of the alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, thanks for the initiative, I am also a supporter of industrial parks. I'm not building illusions about adopting my bill, but, nevertheless, I'd like to use this time to pay attention to some things. First of all, who is the recipient of this bill? It's an investor. The investor is foreign, but not least, but perhaps the first one is the Ukrainian investor. For a long time, I asked myself: ‘ Am I going to an industrial park like this? Unfortunately, the answer was very clear and quick: no. Why? No matter how much we ask our entrepreneurs for social responsibility, the main goal is profit. Gaining profit means having full ownership in all of its manifestations. And in this case, we're delegating the Cabinet of Ministers with our determination. And if I don't want to invest more of my profits in this park, do I want to go somewhere else? So this is one constraint. I'm told that in 10 years you can fix it, then you can keep that profit and get it out. And that's the second thing I'm not going to sleep for at night: I'm going to have to keep my business in this industrial park for 10 years, otherwise I'm going to pay fines for all the previous periods with a penny for not paying income tax and all that. So a good bill, which I think we need to make much more radical. There are other adjustments to the understanding. We're changing the term "goods" to "arms." And all those who share my concerns about industrial parks are invited to sign an alternative bill, which is mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u133	Thank you. I invite the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Alexander Volodymyrovich Kowalczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u134	Honorable members of the Presidium, colleagues, respected Ukrainians! In addition to what was said by the author of the bill and the author of the alternative bill, I can only add that this is not some new tool that we have come up with together. It's a tool that many countries in the world use, and they're only different from each other by how deep and widely the benefits are used to create conditions for those companies that are doing an extremely important job in our country and in any other country. This law on prospects and on creating new jobs. This law that we are creating opportunities for our Ukrainians who have gone abroad and have been working there for many years, to return to Ukraine, to get a decent salary and good working conditions. It's a bill on budgeting. This law on local self - government can also affect the filling of local budgets by creating conditions or by adopting limits for land taxes. This law on infrastructure development and on the promotion of our country as a country that can produce quality products, like countries that can compete with any country in this world, on any land, it can be an agrosector, and a forest sector. As an example of my district in the city of Reveny, I can say that these bills have given us a furniture cluster, and today it is about 10 billion dollars of investment in the industrial park. This law only improves the conditions under which more of these examples will appear. I ask you all very much for your support, fellow believers, in both the first and the second readings. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council support the first reading of 5688. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Please two in, two in, two in. Sign up. Please, Bardina Marina Olegovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u136	Gettman's Daniel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u137	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, everyone in this room knows my attitude towards tax benefits, my negative attitude towards tax benefits. But in this case, I stand firm for the tax benefits that we give to industrial parks. There is no successful country in the world that has a raw economy. Unfortunately, since 2013, we have seen a significant increase in the share of raw materials in our economy and a decrease in the corresponding industry. Industry is what creates jobs; industry is what gives taxes; industry is what gives the future of the country and what guarantees the welfare of the country and its citizens. We've already voted "investigators" in this room. It's a big and cool project for big business, and already over 100 projects are under consideration today to start within this project. You and I voted in 5,600 this year for mining towns. The 18 cities in Ukraine, which die as a result of the closure of mines, have received benefits for the development of the medium industry. And today we're looking at industrial parks in the hall. Industrial parks are a tool that is widely used around the world. These industrial parks are developing both in Poland and in Turkey over 100, and in China over 300, and in South Korea over 1200 (see, 1200 industrial parks). I'm convinced that the proper use of this tool is an investment of the state, and this is also necessary, especially if it is to be successful, if it is to be successful, if it is to be successful industrial parks, it will guarantee our economic growth. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u140	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Honorable colleagues, industrial parks today have united both east and west. Now, just talking to Paul Bakunz, really, it's necessary and today we need to help small and medium-sized businesses, big business. But I would also like to pay attention to Donbas, where the war is going. We registered with colleagues Bill 2070 for the free economic zone of Donbas. If Parliament has already voted and removed the free economic zone from Crimea, we still demand that we do and give a guarantee, and that we put forth a bill of 2070 on the free economic zone of Luhanskina and Donetskina, where the war is going. There should be investment in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, but they should still give jobs. And also a guarantee to both the President and the Parliament and the Cabinet that people would like to invest in those countries today, and that they would be able to pay today's credit for small, medium-sized businesses, for the agro-business. Two thirds of the earth is left, and there are no people. Today, the miners are leaving for Poland. What was he saying, our colleague of the Gethmans, about mining towns? So let's take a look at the Lugani pool today with coal, black gold, which is not enough at the warehouses today. There's an energy crisis in the country where electricity is now being bought in Belarus for 5 dollars and sold to OTG for 9 dollars. So we need to take care of Donbas today and still allow business to develop where the war is going. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u141	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to the most competent in the Supreme Council on the development of industry and economy, Coltunovich Alexander, our colleague of honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u143	Alexander Sergiyovich, while you're going to the rostrum, I think there are so many more compliments on your part. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! For this convening of the Supreme Council, there must be five basic such key economic laws that are actually very correct in theory. But they don't work under separate conditions. I will also, like my colleague Shahov, appeal to the head of the financial and tax committee, who said fundamental things that need to be restored to industrial production, to high-tech industrial production. But you need to know very well the structure of the Ukrainian economy, its economic history, in order to understand that the individual standards that are set here, instead of stimulating investment in the industrial sector, will reduce them, instead of restoring industry, they will make it worse. What is the main basis for modern industrial politics in Ukraine? These are cooperative links in the high - tech industries with the countries of the SND, the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union. We have a common infrastructure: energy, transportation, communication, a number of other competitive advantages, the only cooperative base that was yet to be created in Soviet times. Is that what you're doing when you're setting standards here? You break separate chains when you make restrictions with individual countries in the eastern direction. This will, on the contrary, reduce the volume and implementation of industrial production, and reduce the share of innovation in industrial structure, and reduce what colleagues said, the share of machine building in exports. Here's what we're doing. And then, instead of doing the good, we make it worse, we direct, we cultivate the raw direction of the economy. In our view, therefore, between the first and the second readings, remove discriminatory standards that worsen and further disrupt cooperation with SND countries. Without that, there will be no future in the economy of Ukraine and industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich After that, Juliana Nina Petrovna and Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Yeah, I can see that. And since Fatherland, there's no one else? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, it is symbolic that I am speaking, then speaking to Mrs. Nina Petrovna, because I remember, as a matter of principle, that we were protecting ourselves in the past, so that these tax benefits would not be accepted in that way. And it's very strange that we don't have a finance minister present to tell us all how much it's going to cost. How much? Some are retired, some are paid medically, and some are not getting higher wages because of tax benefits. But if there's money in the monocoal, and you want to spend it, spend it. The only thing I would very much like our Ukrainian Parliament to point out is that, despite our vote, our positions have declared "investment", for the first time in many years, the investment climate index in Ukraine has been reduced this year. And the problem is not the availability or lack of tax benefits for industrial parks, but weak judicial reform, high levels of corruption, shadow economy and low rates of vaccination. I would very much like to see the words that we're restoring industry here really come true in reality. But unfortunately, or fortunately, you don't have to do tax benefits for the same oligarchs who first use them. Because ordinary citizens will not build factories. And exactly what you're doing right now is you're creating an internal Ukrainian offshore, which then also, heroically creating, you're going to be heroically closing. Because there's just no money in the budget. I will not vote in favour of this law, and I also call for restraint. But first of all, I'm talking to the government again. I really wanted them to sometimes, at least sometimes to tell the truth, what they wrote in Minfin's conclusion on this bill, that they didn't support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u147	Thank you. B Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction. Then Ruddick. And then Yatzenka. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u148	Dear Ukrainians, do you have cognitive dissonance? The same people who say that a simplified system of taxation, that FOPs is erosion in tax legislation, that because of them there is no decent pay for teachers and doctors, are now talking about benefits for an unlimited number of legal persons. We have been working to create industrial parks and a special tax system, studying the experience that enables countries to develop. But this bill, it's totally done without thinking about the manufacturing industry that you're talking about, without thinking about the limitations and the responsibility. Because by providing tax benefits, it's a two-way process, and the state gives tax benefits, and the business, at least, does a social component. And that includes all the laws in all the countries where industrial parks work, but not in us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich. Then there's the national MP, Yatzenko. And let's go to the vote. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we will support this bill, but only on the first reading. Because both small entrepreneurs and middle - class workers are entitled to benefits. And it's an axiom. But let's not turn it into a farce. Today’s version of both laws does not contain any restrictions on the activities of those entrepreneurs who will do business there in the parks. There's no innovation, there's no energy saving, there's no requirement that distinguishes this kind of business from the other. Example: Golden bearer. City authorities have allocated 10 hectares of land for processing in an industrial park -- what? - oil and think of a cannabis we haven't even voted on yet. Give the word to the former mayor of Goldilocks, let him appeal to me and say it's not true. Is that innovation? It's not innovation, it's preferences for individual types of business. And we need to make it right for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u151	Please, National Deputy Yatzenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, indeed, industrial parks will enable communities to develop first. Because today we are seeing, especially in small towns and towns, when the factory is closed, nothing to do, and people are just leaving, or there is nothing to survive. So I think it's very good that this is the law. And, in principle, if there are any questions, you can go over them to the second reading. I'm sure the committee will work. But this is certainly such a progressive way to create jobs in Ukraine that will not only be jobs, but will also allow for the additional payment of the same income tax for individuals, the PFO so-called, and other revenue for the budget. That's why I think it's good. Let's support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create favourable conditions for large-scale investment in industrial production (draft No. 5688). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:23:11]] For 256 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Show the factions, please. Let's move on, dear fellows. The following Bill 5689. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to create favourable conditions for large-scale investment in industrial production. Dear colleagues, there is an offer without discussion, but I know Nina Petrovna is asking for two minutes. Anyone else ask for two minutes? Huh? Let's do it then. Dear colleagues. Well, what are you waving at me? Please. Let us vote on this issue in summary. [[14:24:12]] For 247 Decision taken. They're coming to you now. You're having trouble with the remote, right? The representatives of the Apparat, Nestor Ivanovich, are on their way. Give Nestor Ivanovich a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u154	Mr. Chairman, for the transcript. In our sector in the last two rows during the previous vote, when a total of 5688 voted, unfortunately, the cards did not work. As the national MPs voted, either they didn't vote at all, or the MPs did change their position during the vote, but it wasn't fixed. I can see by the board that I've held back, and I've got a "yes" vote. First of all, please consider my voice "retained." And secondly, check how the cells work in the last two rows of our sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u155	Please see how the vote goes. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, two minutes of Nina Yuzanin. And then we go to the vote. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u157	Unfortunately, such important systemic things are quick to vote. Dear colleagues, the basic law has already provided State support to those who will be located right in the industrial parks and who will export, and these are significant costs from the state budget. And when we talk about tax benefits, you have to take into account the experience of our 25-year-old country. We really can't compare or implement the standards that work somewhere today because we already have special economic zones and high-priority areas and technology parks and benefits for individual areas of economics, engineering, shipbuilding, light industry, IT. Please tell me who analyzed how each of these special regimes worked, what tax benefits did they use, and how did they benefit the state to develop the economy? Unfortunately, each of these special regimes, with the same goal at the beginning of implementation -- a positive effect -- was later transformed exclusively into a way of tax evasion, and as a result, such tax benefits were abolished. For what you have just accepted, it is imperative that you set up safety and security arrangements for investors who will work in the area. Please understand, you're saying that it's creating jobs. Yes, if a company is created and there is one working person. (I'm 2 minutes away), so it's going to meet the criteria and be exempt from income tax. Ten years when new equipment is imported, do not pay any taxes at all, do not pay taxes on land without limiting the duration of the benefits! Please tell me we're talking about the benefits of local budgets right now. But it's only in a smart way when there's really a criterion about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. Two minutes. You've just heard so much of yourself, Nina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. There were two minutes. Honorary colleagues, 5689, draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to create favourable conditions for large-scale investment in industrial production. I propose to adopt a bill (project registration number 5689) – a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to create favourable conditions for large-scale investment in industrial production. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:28:41]] For 237 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! Victoria Kinsburg, I take it, is also an agreed proposal between all factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u159	Good afternoon. Thank you. Please put Bill 6273 to the vote, this is a second-reading bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, we voted him out, he's the last one we've got going straight. Come on, if you don't mind. We can vote. Therefore, respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you want an amendment to this same bill? For confirmation? Please. Dear colleagues, then let's make a decision. There's no consensus, you see. Here we go, we've spoken without amendment - one amendment, one amendment. Let's go in the order that's voted, and finish these things. Dear colleagues, I'm going to Bill 3739. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're not through, we'll be in 3739 now. Dear colleagues, we're going in order, we're not changing, we're going in 3739 now, we've voted that order, we're going in. 3739 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act to create preconditions for the continuous development and modernization of the domestic industry. I invite Natalhu Dmitry Andriyovich. This is the second reading we have. Dmitry Andriyovich, come in. Where are you? Dear colleagues, I understand, no one will insist on amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] They insist. Who insists? I understand you said for confirmation, for confirmation at the end. Now I'm asking who wants to make their adjustments. I see I've got a gun. Let's go. 23rd. Who's got the 23rd? [[B in m in s a l in]] I said number 3739, location. Please, Engine 23, correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Thank you for your word. I would like to address all the parliamentarians in this regard. Our organizations keep competition in the world economy and sometimes win it. And now on them and on our taxpayers, as well as on consumers in Ukraine, we are responsible for the uncompetitive and weak but cunning. In our history it was already, we can even say that this is reflected in our folklore as a battle of an impeccable relationship, just a story about "The Fox Sister and the Wolf of the Panibrates" that tells us very clearly. In this case, we're opening Pandora's box. You can't imagine how much auditory work there is to verify this whole location. Also, we can imagine how many mediators will appear in the process of obtaining a localization document. We are voting against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u162	I'm putting 23 amendments to the People's Deputy Rušišin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:35]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The next 111 is an amendment. Engine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, here, at this door, is a photograph by Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, who received a sign of "Trustworthy," and he, when speaking in our parliament, said what was the first problem in Ukraine today. This is a systematic failure to implement international agreements. I'm not going to talk about the association right now, because it's probably been removed, but, nevertheless, in accordance with article 3 of the State Procurement Agreement, which Ukraine joined on 16 March 2016, each party should be able to ensure that the regime is no less favourable than that provided to national goods, services and suppliers. Bill 3739’s proposals are also considered to be a violation of the trade - related requirements of the Agreement (Appendix 1A to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization). Purely for Lipinsky: Betrayal has become the most characteristic of our history.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, 111 amendment, National Deputy Ruššina. The committee suggests that this amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[2:34:07]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next 146th. 146th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, all the bills that are being tabled in the hall must be in line with our strategy. The Cabinet Strategy, which is approved, clearly states that competition should be objective and independent of where the manufacturer or commercial firm is located, and in this case we are already violating this rule. But thank you for giving us the bill, kindly giving it to Friedrich Liste, an ideologist of economic nationalism. And he has this quote: "The absolute freedom of international trade today is a cosmopolitan idea that can only be implemented in a few centuries." Ladies and gentlemen, it's been several centuries. There's been globalization on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u166	I'm putting 146 amendments to the people's deputy Rušišin. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:26]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next 205. Engine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the economy of Ukraine is export-oriented, and in this case, people or companies who export successfully Ukrainian products will lose these markets in exchange for a small and small Ukrainian market. Is this justified? The question is rhetorical. If corporate zombies can't offer the lowest price on a transparent tender, they'll demand that Ukrainian customers pay them more by wearing a national flag. But in the end, the higher price will be an additional burden on the average Ukrainian consumer or taxpayer. And when he overpays for the goods or services of the zombie corporation, the citizen doesn't use that money to buy another product, probably Ukrainian. You can't vote for this bill, you can't fight a big deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the 205 amendment of the people's deputy Rušišin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:49]] For-46 The decision is not taken. The next 270 is an amendment. National MP Ruššin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, a mile and a half from here, there's a place where the murder of an economist has been committed that is perhaps an authority for many. A mile and a half from here to the other side, in Lavre, he was buried, called Stolipe. Thus, even Stolipin in 1905 said that the law should serve for the competitive and the strong, not for the drunk and the weak. I also want to say that protective policy is a losing, victorious, offensive strategy. It's not a forward strategist, we're hiding from the world in our shell in Ukraine. And I would like to say that there are much better other tools that we talked about earlier. For example, industrial parks that we can use to support our exporter. You can't vote for this bill, you can't fight a big deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, 270 amendments to the People’s Deputy Rušišin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:14]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 320. 320, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u171	Respectful colleagues have shown that empirical research shows that the costs of large interior countries have led to a decline in economic development. There is a correlation between the Ukrainian’s welfare and his statistical relationship. the well-being of any human being and the duration of his life. And so by protecting our underprivileged businesses from the horrors of the so-called world competition, we are actually in an indirect way cutting short on Ukrainian lives. But it's very hard to understand because, on the other hand, the company is working, the pipes are smoking, the director is sitting in nice offices, the production is unloading, and we're paying for it from the taxpayer's pocket and from the pockets of every Ukrainian. You can't accept this bill, you can't beat a connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, 320 amendments to the National MP Ruššin and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:36]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Neither did the ranks, respected colleagues. Apparatus, please. I'm tired of the equipment. There's the people's deputies. Come on in, please. And your final amendment is 2117. National MP Ruššin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the economy of Germany is an example. And I actually dug into science and found a quote that I'd like to read to you. In Germany, the economic reform of 1948 led by economic minister Ludwig Ergard took a sharp turn in politics. He stated that neoliberal principles, contrary to the principles of the corporate model, should be embodied in the economy of the federal republic. Ergaard attributed almost a doubling of West Germany’s national product between 1949 and 1956 to a resurgence of competition and believed that the nation had won by rejecting the corporate tendency to refuse individual incentives, also rejecting the socialist trend and considering the distribution of wealth more than its productivity. You can't accept this bill, you can't beat a connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 2117 People’s Deputy Rušišin. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:16]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else will insist? People's deputy Cabal. May I see you? We've seen a list of your amendments. Can we, can we give some time and have the opportunity to vote today because tomorrow we have mega-legislatures that deal with so many issues? If that were possible, we would be grateful. Tomorrow, too, we have to vote, including to have the distinguished representatives of the Bethlehem Fire and other colleagues come to our door. Please, National Deputy Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u175	The number of the right to dictate or.? Now 77, then three minutes instead of 84, 91.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u176	Let's start with 77.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u177	Let's do 77. Yeah, 77 revisions sound like this. "To complete paragraph 1 of section I of the draft law with a new paragraph of this content: "The degree of localization is defined by the participant itself by the formula: the degree of localization is equal to the unit divided by the currency value of the cost, divided by the cost, multiplied by 100 per cent." Why is this being done? In order for the participant to be able to determine and declare the degree of localization on his own. So that it is not done by a government authority that will, in an incomprehensible way, issue advice to every bidder that he is a Ukrainian, which in turn removes the corruption risks that may arise if such an organ is present. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u178	I'm betting on the 77th amendment of the Cabal People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:23]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Three minutes later, Cabal instead of eight of his amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I will not insist on rulings 84 - 91, but instead I want to express my position. What's this law about anyway? The essence of the law is to give preference in public procurement to those manufacturers who have a higher percentage of localized production in Ukraine. The authors of the law claim that this will support the development of the Ukrainian industry, but that is not really the case. The bill at best is ordinary populism, and the worst part is outright harmful. This bill is such an easy version of Bill 7206, 2017, "Buy Ukrainian", which was often called "buy in oligarchs". Yes, and I am grateful that they have greatly softened this law before reading it again, and that is why most of my rights will be removed. However, this law, even at present, does not serve the purpose of supporting production, Ukrainian production. First of all, I want to say that I'm for healthy protectionism and for stimulating the Ukrainian manufacturer, but this protectionism has to be based on three principles that are not being implemented in this law. Principle number one: To encourage Ukrainian producers themselves, not to restrict foreign producers. So the stimulus should be one that makes the Ukrainian manufacturer more competitive, not less competitive. Let me remind you that any preference, especially in public procurement, reduces the competitive capacity of the Ukrainian producer in the long term. Why is it shrinking? Because you are not competitive and have no incentive to invest, improve your product, and improve your service. And in the long run, these preferences will lead to the fact that the same Ukrainian producers will be less competitive and produce more expensive and poorer quality products. Second, protectionism should not harm the economy as a whole at the expense of individual sectors. And I would like to remind you that if we help individual industries, our commitments in the World Trade Organization can result in other industries, like exporters, being affected because they will be re-sanctioned. And accordingly, some industries will win, and others may suffer, especially the exporters, at the expense of those sanctions. Third, protectionism must not conflict with international obligations. Unfortunately, this bill does not support any of these three principles. That's why I can't support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u180	Thank you. The next amendment is 138. Please, Tzabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, 138 revisions apply to the following. 138 revision suggests section 3, and the draft law should be deleted. Why is this important? Any localization, it will lead to the fact that public purchases will not always buy goods that are better quality and better price. So when the manufacturer participates in the tender, he can win the tender without having the cheaper product. This, in turn, means that public budget purchases will be made at the expense of taxpayers at higher prices, and this will accordingly result in public budget spending either increasing or decreasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u182	Do you insist on voting? I bet 138 the amendment of the Cabal People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[2:48:09]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next 146, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u183	144th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u184	144th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the 144th Amendment of this bill is a key and important amendment. I want to tell you one more moment that maybe not all colleagues know. How does the World Trade Organization work? The World Trade Organization is an agreement of many countries that make certain commitments that relate to both external trade and, in fact, some domestic economic activity. Why do they make these commitments? Because it is important for each member of this organization that different legislative acts do not create preferences for local producers within the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the 144th Amendment of the Cabal People’s Deputy The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:49:42]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 146, Cabal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u187	146. Thank you for your attention. It's about the same subject, so I'll keep going. And why it's important in the world. Why are these principles important that prevent certain preferences from being given without the consent of other participants? Because every country can start introducing these preferences -- and the world trade won't work. And world trade is good for the whole economy. And these principles exist so that there are not, of course, subtle states that, in turn, do what others do not do. And by violating these principles, the following situation occurs: Other members of the World Trade Organization have the right to impose sanctions. What is reverse sanctions? The reverse sanctions, they work like this: any organization that trades with Ukraine will be able to choose that exporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u188	I'm sorry, we've already voted 146. Let's vote the 204th that you're talking about because you're using the minute. We've already voted 46th. Dear colleagues, the 206 amendment of the honorable deputy of the Cabal. No, 206 is Zarisky. 204th, I'm sorry. Let's vote 204, will it be okay then? I'll bet you 204 votes. The committee turned her down. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's "no"? 146th? Look, 146 amendments have already been voted on. We will not be able to vote on her again because she was reported by Ruššin. Then let's do 204. I'll bet 204. Please vote. She's been rejected by the committee. [[14:51:59]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 209.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u189	No, no, wait. Give me three minutes, and I'll take my changes off.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u190	All right, all right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u191	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u192	Please give the Cabal three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u193	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I see that, let's say, knowledge of economic theory is not always a strong part of this Supreme Council, well, like other Supreme Councils. And that's normal, because there are professionals in the Supreme Council working in different fields: there are lawyers in the Supreme Council, there are economists, there are journalists, there are military, there are doctors, there are educators. And that's normal when everyone's doing their job and everyone's thinking about the people who are dealing with it. Unfortunately, with regard to many economic bills, the opinion of economists is not always heard and is not always oriented. I would like to remind you that after the adoption of this bill, in the first reading, the Kyiv School of Economics calculated the potential impact of this bill on Ukraine's economy. And according to their calculations, this bill is not going to give a positive to GDP, it's going to give a negative half percent. Why is that? Because some industries will win at the expense of increasing the production and sales of government tenders, but others may potentially lose at the expense of the potential sanctions of our international partners, who will not be satisfied that their products cannot compete on an equal footing with Ukrainians. And another reason for this negative impact is that the long-term negative effect on the economy is that, although in the short term, really 2-3 years, our producers will benefit from localization, they will not be encouraged to invest in production, invest in product improvement, and in the long term they will become less competitive. So if I'm thinking about leading economists, I call the Kyiv School of Economics, and also a lot of European organizations that know about this law, we don't see support here. The only thing I wanted to thank the committee for was that, between the first and second readings, the law had been thoroughly worked out, and from the list of countries that would not be subject to it. suppliers who are in countries that are not subject to localisation requirements have excluded all, most or all of our international partners: these are EU countries, these are the United States and other countries that are our international partners. And that's good, that's significant progress. Although the law itself is still not optimal. But what's been done is progress, thanks to the committee. That's why I don't support the law, but...
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u194	Thank you very much for your understanding of your design. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'll give you one more minute of iron, and he'll take off all his adjustments. Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. After that, I think we can go to the vote. But I know that another amendment will be made by the representatives of OPCW, Volosin, and one amendment will be made for confirmation. He won't set it up, he'll take a minute of Alona Igoryn's scrum. And then we go to the vote. But in order for us to be sure to vote, I will continue for 15 minutes. Please, I give you my word. 1 minute - Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, I have 1,500 rights to this law, and of course I won't raise any of them, I don't think I have to spend any time on it. I'm against this law, I don't think it will help, and I think ProZorro is the best system if it's won the highest prizes in the world several times. This law will not change our economy, I'm sure of it. But I am also grateful to the committee, and to Dmitri Natalusi, and to Dmitri Kisilevski, and to others, who, although in the long, in the hot but nevertheless, have listened to our advice and excluded the most important strategic partners from this law. I will not vote in favour of this law because I do not believe in it, but I will allow the Ukrainian Parliament to make this mistake today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u196	Thank you. So, respectable colleagues, the adjustments we've been taking into account, we've been through. There's one amendment they want to make for confirmation. Please, National Deputy Volosin, and after that, I'm giving you a minute for Shkrum, and we're going to the vote. National deputies, please take your seats. Please, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u197	My dear colleagues, I understand exactly why global corporate lobbyists are now taking off their amendments so quickly, because they've reached together with embassies that have been exerting tremendous pressure on the Supreme Council and on the committee. And I am very grateful to the head of the committee that he has been very brave and professionally reflecting on this pressure for a long time. Because they've removed the countries that are the ones that are the ones that are the most uncompetitive for the Ukrainian producer. Who buy only 60,000 tons of Ukrainian chicken themselves, such as the European Union, and we try to instill even parties. So I'm asking for confirmation of the number 317 amendment, which distorts the very logic of this bill. If the European Union, the United States, Canada, Australia can avoid doing so, what is an equal approach to international trading partners? We have our first trading partner, the People's Republic of China, by the way, not the United States of America at all. So I demand that the Supreme Council be professionally and responsibly. If we're protecting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 317 amendments to the People's Deputy of Kisilevski. It's considered editorially by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy of Volosyn asks that this consideration be confirmed in an editorial way in the walls of the upper room. I'm putting 317 people's deputy Kisilevski's amendment to the committee, as it's edited, to confirm. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:59:13]] For 299 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Shkrum, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u199	Thank you. Colleagues, amendment 2046, but I don't insist on voting. You know this is probably the first attempt in this Parliament in two years to really go to the right protection of Ukrainian national interests and industry. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is co-author of this bill, as are many other members of our faction. And we think that it should have been, maybe from the beginning, two years ago, but right now, the country needs such a new economic course to protect our national interests, our jobs, our workers, our engineers, our industrial enterprises. I think this first attempt should definitely work. Fatherland will support this bill. And then, hopefully, the location can be expanded and spread in the future and will show us some serious results. We should have done it a long time ago, colleagues, and now we're voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha as of the committee for another two minutes. And let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u201	Thank you, colleagues. Of course, the committee decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u202	I went on, I went on, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u203	Of course, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill in second reading and in general with technical legal proceedings. But I wanted to tell you today that, colleagues, this date can become a date on the calendar as a day of Ukraine's economic independence, without exaggeration. For 30 years we went to this day. For 30 years we've been told that it's a shame even to think that we have the right to care for our own Ukrainian producer. For 30 years, we have been told that we must take into account the interests of our regional, European, Western, Eastern and other partners, anyone other than the interests of Ukrainians, Ukrainian producers and Ukrainian workers. For 30 years, we should have been ashamed of the thought of putting national producers and Ukrainian workers first. Friends, for 30 years, we've been convinced that industry is yesterday, and our destiny is agricultural and raw exports. Things are going to change today, my friends. Today, without exaggeration, we will make a historic decision with you, which, of course, I owe to all the factions that supported this bill, to all the heads of factions and MPs who signed this bill. I owe it, of course, to our presidency. I owe it to my committee, Dmitri Kisilevski, without which this bill would be impossible. I owe it to our manufacturers who are standing above you. I owe it to the President of Ukraine, with whom we have agreed on a perfectly optimal way of adopting this bill. And I owe the opposition to a constructive approach in the hall today, so that we can implement this historic, without exaggeration, bill. Colleagues, please support on the basis of the localization bill as a whole (No. 3739). Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Five more seconds, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u205	My colleagues, I'm sorry, I forgot to say all you've just seen is 150,000 signatures of Ukrainian workers to support this bill. Thank you to all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's prepare for the vote. It's just a holiday, it's not enough confetti, but instead of confetti, let's vote nicely for this bill. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I am proposing to the committee, to adopt, on second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on Public Procurement on the creation of preconditions for the continuous development and modernization of the domestic industry (project registration number 3739). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:03:38]] For 323 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Hello, colleague! [[Applause]] One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u207	Dear Mr. Head, you have repeatedly called attention to compliance with the Rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We didn't get it very well on the gallery, and what it was when a faction came out of almost complete stock during the consideration of the bill. This, we understand, is that the amendments have now been considered, the amendments are presented from the place. Second, there was a video, a picture on the screens in the session room. I want to point out that you didn't give our faction the opportunity to show a video that was filmed by an updated network called "The Council," where you just humiliated the opposition, and you wouldn't let us show this video there, commenting that it's impossible. We condemn that you are demonstrating double standards to the faction of the majority and to the opposition. We condemn what you've allowed in violation of the Rules to go to the rostrum right now and instead of presenting amendments here to express some absolutely real speed such an advertising, propaganda, confetti. Don't violate the Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u208	Next bill, 4358. Draft Act amending certain laws on public health protection against the harmful effects of tobacco (second reading). I invite the head of the Committee on National Health, Health Care, and Health Insurance of Bulah Lado Valentinovna. Dear colleagues! Please, Lady Valentine's Day. I understand that no one will insist on the amendments. People's deputies please take their seats. I'll put it to a vote. Or is it the committee's decision yet, is it? Please, Lady Valentinovna, read the committee's decision again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u209	Your view is on the proposal of a bill amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the protection of the health of the population against the harmful effects of tobacco. I remind you that the aim of the bill is to protect people's health from the harmful effects of tobacco and to implement the 40 EU directives on the harmful effects of tobacco. And this is a requirement for Ukraine for an association.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u210	I'm sorry, Lady Valentine's Day, the decision is read only when it's specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u211	I'll read the decision. In accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the second reading of the draft Law, 4358, as a second reading and as a whole. to adopt as a law in the proposed editorial committee. At the same time, in connection with the renumbering of sections of Section I of the bill in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique that took place during the Rules, experts as well as the necessity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u212	Let me finish. I'm just asking you to talk more briefly next time. Let me finish because it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u213	The harmonization of the bill's rules regarding the taking into account the validity of its individual provisions, please also take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u214	Turn it off, please. Thank you. The committee's decision is given, everyone's familiar with it. I ask you to prepare more carefully for the committee next time. And you're given some time to, if there's a specificity in the committee's decision, report it, not start with the purpose of the law. There's one amendment to the confirmation, right? Who's it gonna be? One amendment, who? Can't I see, fellows of honor? Stefanine, I don't think I recognize you in my mask. Please, Stefanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u215	I'd like to place three amendments on confirmation, and I need just one minute of your attention. Colleagues, see, on our first reading, we voted a bill prohibiting flavored cigarettes and electronic products. But between the first and the second, some deputies returned the aroma. Eighty percent of teenagers start smoking flavored cigarettes. I very much ask you to fail these amendments, number 101, 104 and 106, not vote for them or support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u217	I'm betting on confirmation, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m0.u218	You're betting on confirmation. They're accounted for. Dear colleagues, Amendment 101 of the Zamlocsky People’s Deputies applies to confirmation. She's a committee member. Begging for confirmation, Your Honor, if you'd like to vote. [[15:08:27]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 104 of the Shahov People's Deputy. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy Stefanisin puts it on the stand. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[15:08:57]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And the final line is 106, Galajchuk. It's counted by the committee. She's a committee member. Dear colleagues, I'm putting her on the stand. Please vote. [[15:09:33]] For 219 The decision is not taken. All right, dear fellows, let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee that has been bugged: to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the protection of the health of the population against the harmful effects of tobacco (registration number 4358). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:10:17]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, at this plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. We'll meet right away because we're about to begin the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, just a second, I'll change the papers.
