ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Please prepare to register, take your seats. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left, or the pro button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:01:59]] There are 280 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the first issue of the agenda: the resignation of Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Avakov Arsen Borisovich. The head of the law enforcement committee Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend, please. Wait, Alexander Sergiyovich. No, no, come to the rostrum. You don't have to leave yet, you're early. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On July 13, 2021, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Arsen Borisovich Avakov filed with the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request to accept his resignation as Minister of Interior of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u2	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, 13.07.2021, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a statement from the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Arsen Awakov, stating: "In accordance with part of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine," I ask that you accept my resignation from the post of Minister of Interior of Ukraine. I have the honor!" At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting on July 14, 2021 (Protocol 81), reviewed the statement by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Avakov Arsen Borisovich, on his resignation. The Committee notes that the submission of such a statement corresponds to the provision of part one of the first article of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has to consider the application and may decide to release a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from office. According to the outcome of the discussion, based on section 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be decided by a vote on the statement by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Avakov Arsen Borisovich, on resignation from office. Thank the Minister for his work and his state position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u3	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Kunicky Alexander Olegovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, good morning! I think we should support Mr. Habakkuk's resignation. It's his personal position to write a statement. Yesterday, on the committee, we discussed this issue. Regrettably, the committee recommended that the Supreme Council decide on its own. But I would recommend to you, my colleagues, that you satisfy Mr. Habakkuk's wishes and finally let him out of that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u5	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, this day, without exaggeration, the Ukrainians have been waiting since the election of the new Supreme Council of the last nine, because there was never going to be a man like Arsen Borisovich Avakov in the new Cabinet of Ministers. Unfortunately, there has been a mistake that we all need to correct now. Because when I hear about the state's position, I mention raped girls, murdered children, whose investigations are still pending. I remember volunteers who spent 500 days in prison just because they could not be called law-enforcement officers by the Avatar, forgive me, by the men who faked the case. This person must be held accountable. I think that this responsibility should be not only about being released, but about all the floors, about what was happening in the National Police, which is now associated with "breathing," killings, rapes, this person has to bear criminal responsibility. But the most we can do right now is free Arsen Borisovich Habakkuk. I've already written, and I've approached each and every one of you, saying that the last sanctions imposed by the President were the floor, it was a forgery, when the Ministry of Internal Affairs established the President and innocent Ukrainians were sanctioned, while the "wrecks in the law" were redeemed. Such things should be criminally responsible, not just for dismissal. Today, every one of you will be watching the whole of Ukraine. Because we need a new police force, not a patrol, behind which are covered all those bandits, most of whom are now sitting on the Bogleman in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm asking you very much to support this decision and let Arsen Borisovich go as he pleases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u7	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u8	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u9	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" did not participate in the appointment of Arsen Borisovich, who served for more than seven years as Minister of Interior. I believe that in a situation that has arisen today in Ukraine in all sectors: both security and information, in the judiciary, in economic particular, - I believe that posts such as the Minister of Internal Affairs, those structures that will shape the judicial branch of power, influence the information space, I think that there should be representatives involved or lead them primarily from the opposition forces in order to resolve the impact of the chaos that is happening in Ukraine today. And that's why we, "The Opposition Platform for Life," won't take part in these games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u11	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Is there any other motive? Aresonkov, I see. Dmitri Valeriyovich, I see you too. Heratchenka, Aresonkov, Lubinetsk, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians, Arsen Habakkuk and I passed the Orange Course, the Dignity Revolution. Together we fought the Yanukovich gang and the Putin call, which would be held in The Hague. But it's not about the person, it's not about the personnel, it's about the politics, it's about the Green government. As an opposition faction, "European Solidarity" is the only faction in this room that did not vote in favour of any minister of the Green government: neither in the days of Potter or in the days of Schmidt. We want to remind everyone in the room who doesn't belong to the majority that "European Solidarity" is collecting signatures for the resignation of the entire government of Green Smeaguel for their non-professionality, for their sexism, for their racism, for all the non-necessity that this government is demonstrating to the country today. What's happening in this room right now is a violent violation of the Green Constitution. Because Zelenski, who, according to the Constitution in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, has the right to claim the halls of only defence ministers and ministers of foreign affairs, has already named the successor of Habakkuk, and the "ministers" who multiply this Constitution to zero every day, have swallowed it in the first place because they have no right to vote, no influence on the government, no control of the government, and we are living in the "official-presidential republic" today. As an opposition we were in all the courts on the Sheremet case, as an opposition we protested against the politicization of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the construction of a totalitarian police state. And it will be political today that we vote, that we demand the resignation of the entire government of Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u13	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, then Lubinets, is voted after.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u14	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, today we are looking at more than just a formal administrative act -- a review of the Minister's resignation statement, today we need to look very deeply at the role of the IMF structures in our country and society and the role played by Minister Avakov. So, the position of the trust MP group: Avakov is the real patriot of his country. I would like to remind you that it is thanks to him that he has been able to maintain peace, peace, and territorial integrity in the country. Yes, many questions in the process of reforming, the quality of the structural and operational units of the IMF system in advance, other directions, but Habakkuk did his historic role, so with honor and dignity he wrote a statement, asked the MPs personally to support it. And we'll do it. We wish him a fine life course.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u16	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Do you know when Arsen Borisovich Avakov was appointed to serve as minister of the interior? This was February 22, 2014. For those of you who don't remember, I'll remind you that at the time, the level of trust in the police was zero. The time has passed -- and now the level of trust in the new National Police is 50 percent. The IMF is the State Border Service, it's the National Guard, it's the State Migration Service, it's 360,000 people working and working for Ukraine. I want to tell you how a Donbas man is: sometimes I'm ashamed that someone like Avakov wasn't in the Donetsk region, that he protected his Harks and showed how to protect this state. So let us have the privilege of thanking this person for what he has done and is doing for our nation. Thank you, Arsen Borisovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u17	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. It's an extreme performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u18	The Fatherland faction did not vote in favour of the Government of Shmigal or the Government of Pottery. And that's why we're very surprised to see those who have been so actively supporting the government and the Pottery, and the Smigal, who are now simply betraying the members of the team of Pottery and Schmidt. But this is your characteristic, this characterizes all of you, who are moral all of you, who are all honest and what principles you live by. Arsen Borisovich Avakov is a person who was among those who actually saved this country in February 14th, but you decided to "deal". Questions to you. You don't even listen to him, the question to you. We are not taking part in this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law, "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" puts to the vote a motion for exemption, by adopting the resignation of Avakov Arsen Borisovich from the post of Minister of Interior of Ukraine on his application for resignation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:15:48]] For 291 Decision taken. I'd like the profile committee, along with the apparatus, to form. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait! Form a decision based on the outcome of our decision. Please show by factions. Dear colleagues, I think we should thank Arsena Borisovich Avakov for all the years he worked for our state. Thank you. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving corporate governance of legal persons, shareholders (founding member) of which are States (registrations 5593, 5593-1, 5593-2 and 5593-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:17:10]] For 255 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, David Georgiyovich, is invited to attend. The vice president of the Committee on Economic Development, Podlas Rocksolán Andriyev, from the Committee, is invited to attend. Podlasa, please, from the committee, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, all four Bills 5593 are bills for the work of the Supervisory Boards. You know, this is one of the most resonant and well-known topics in government. Today we have a large number of problems with the management of state enterprises. Of the three thousand enterprises that are under the administration of ministries and departments, only 947 are profitable, the rest are bankrupt, bankrupt, or not working at all. Obviously, it is necessary to change the approach to government management. As a guide, we have chosen the guiding principles of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development regarding corporate governance in state-owned enterprises. Bill 5593-d, prepared by the Committee on Economic Development, fully complies with these principles. The Economic Development Committee therefore approved the decision to submit Bill 5593-d to the Supreme Council for consideration and to recommend it on the first reading to be adopted on the basis of Bills 5593, 5593-1, 5593-2 to be rejected. The Committee also approved the decision to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a proposal to declare, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, the need for proposals and amendments to amend, clarify, remove errors and/or contradictions in the text of the amended bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading, but correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u22	Please hand over Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u23	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, my colleague! What I'm saying is that we've been looking at this bill at the committee meeting, three bills have been critically evaluated, and many proposals for changes that have actually been made to the second reading. At the same time, we realize that making changes to corporate governance is important in connection with changes in the market and generally after COVID. We're talking about financial plans, we're talking about authorization of supervisory boards, we're talking about annual forward-looking investment plans. At the same time, I want to say that there is no provision in the new edition that is presented and in articles 92 and 75 of the Code of Lords for the order in which state-owned commercial enterprises make public purchases, public disclosures, transparency. The project's approach to disposing of core funds could lead to the alienation of state-owned business funds. Third. This project is proposed to give political and state ownership, but the content of this term is not at all exposed. We will vote in favour of this bill in the second reading if the proposals of our faction are counted between the first and the second readings. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to what NAZC is saying about the existing corrupting factors, the imperfect mechanism for the appointment of heads of state companies. And this whole arrangement can be done between the first and the second reading. If this is taken into account, we will support the bill in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u25	Silent Alexei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, in the last 30 years of Ukrainian independence, government assets have often been a corrupt tool for politicians. The regulatory gaps create negative incentives to intervene in the operations of individual enterprises. The state has to sell surplus assets in a transparent and competitive way. But what remains of state ownership must be managed effectively and only by professionals, performing key KPIs and providing income with the best practices of corporate governance. The Committee on Economic Development recommended the adoption of Bill No. 5593-d, which was formed on the basis of OECD guiding principles. The key were the bill. It provides for fiduciary responsibilities for the management of the enterprise, and the authorization to approve strategic documents, such as strategies, financial plans, investment plans, are passed on to the Supervisory Board. The appointment and acceptance of the terms of the contracts with him are also delegated to the Supervisory Board. The bill provides an exclusive list of clear grounds for the early termination of the powers of the Supervisory Board in order to avoid future political-motivated layoffs. The bill proposes a clear division of the powers of the Supervisory Board as a professional strategic body and the governing body and the Cabinet of Ministers as an authority that shapes and implements politics. With the adoption of the bill, Ukraine will be able to forget about the phenomenon of state-owned enterprises as a food business for politicians forever. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u27	Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u28	Please pass the word to the Shufresche.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u29	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I wonder why this law? Do you think Americans and Joe Biden are so stupid? They clearly see that this law actually continues what is now. But we have submitted to make life easier for you and to please the people you supposedly serve, Law 4399, in which we ask that members of the Supervisory Board receive no more than 10 minimum wages. If it's a year-by-year loss, zero, if it's a pay-per-year debt, it's zero. And so that these are exclusively Ukrainian citizens, and that the internship and education will allow them to do in the field that they oversee. And we already have some journalists here -- they're the best in the field of railway development and the defense of our country. And I have a question: can those of us who are in control of the railway right now be medically different from the railway church? That's why we're not going to vote in favour of this law, because it's absolutely absurd. Members of today’s oversight boards are now sitting in London for 30, 40, 50,000 dollars a month and smoking bamboo. And the cannabis wanted to smoke, but thank God we stopped you here. Therefore, we demand that this law not be upheld as an unjust one. And I want to make a statement on behalf of our faction. We've looked at the order of the day of the extracurricular session -- it's disrespect for people. You have no right to waste your time serving the people, not bullying them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u31	I don't care. Taruta? Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction has consistently advocated the protection of national interests, the development of Ukraine's economy and industry. This bill is worthless and does not suit national interests. First of all, it is dealt with with with with a gross violation of the Rules. There are nine draft laws on supervisory councils in Parliament, including the leader of the Fatherland faction, Timoshenko, who solves the problems that concern society today. The situation in the supervisory boards today angered society about the efficiency of their work and the stormy wages. Unfortunately, this bill does not solve this major problem: there is no criterion regarding the profession of those who take part. There is a big problem regarding independent representatives from foreign countries. Today, we see from Naftogazu that the heads of state enterprises manipulate the board of directors, give them a barter, a large salary, and the board of directors does not fully work to protect national interests. The Fatherland faction won't support this bill because it doesn't correspond to the main one is the protection of national interests, independence. We're taking it now, I think a lot of people in this room understand it's a barter because our Western partners said there would be no macrophin without this draft law. And what I'm saying is that it's that draft law that was being considered that it wasn't even registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u33	Thank you. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. After that, Shahov, then we move on to. Rudik, and then before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we will uphold this law. We have a lot of complaints about corporate governance that we can't have when we had 73 billion losses last year. But if it's very easy to explain what we have with corporate governance reform, it's like doing good repairs in the apartment, but being afraid that it's cold because there's no glass in the balcony. The same thing, we're not finished reforming corporate governance. And this bill, which we worked together in the working group, sets out exactly when a member of the Supervisory Board gets paid and when not when he fulfils his obligations and when he is to be released, when it is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board, and when it is the prerogative of the shareholder, that is, the state. And these are the questions that are raised in this bill. That's why the Voice faction will support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u35	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u36	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, let's see how the councils are watching and killing and raping Ukraine. As lawmakers, we sit in this room and we don't go out to the military pensioners, to the forces that protected each of us and our families, with which they cut their pensions twice and picked up those coins, but the supervisory boards get billions of rewards. What are the rewards for? For destroying the Crucifixion? For what is being destroyed today by the defense of the star enterprise, which is in private hands? As the Crucifixion is being destroyed today, everything in our sight is being destroyed, and the Ukrainian land is being burned. And we're sitting here -- and we don't see any support for these bills. We can't give billions of dollars to someone there today, to foreigners, and to our Ukrainians we can't pay 1.5 thousand dollars. Shame on those who are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u37	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u38	Dear Ukrainians, as all well with these bills, have told us about the monogamy. I'll allow myself within one minute to say I'm wrong. First, and most importantly, where there is no supervisory board at a state-owned enterprise of 50 percent or more, we entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to set wages for managers, members of executive bodies, and to reward members of supervisory boards. As the Cabinet of Ministers has been able to deal with this issue, we realized in October of last year, when the marginal amount of 1 million 250,000 dollars that they've already limited in March of this year is considered too small, and they took it off. When each person receives a thousand or two dollars of wages, 1 million 250,000 dollars for members of the boards of directors and heads of state-owned enterprises are scarce! So we call for abstention from voting on this bill. Enough to put Ukrainians in class four compared to some creepy foreigners who are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve corporate governance of legal persons, shareholders (founder, participant) of whom is the State (registration number 5593-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:32:58]] For 251 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Puppy. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u40	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I understand that the mood is at rest. But what I'm trying to say is that you and I voted on Bill 3508-D yesterday. And I want to prepare you for what is expected first of all by the distinguished "ministers of the people," by the other factions that did not support our position in yesterday's vote. We really helped the Ukrainian City Association, city heads, city council deputies, especially the heat utility companies, when they restructured their debts to NAC Naftogaz. But we didn't help you, first of all, because you probably didn't get to the bottom of what you were voting for, and we didn't help our voters with you. We didn't foresee any precautionary measures against an unwarranted increase in gas prices, which, while you're resting, yours and our city councils will now place heat tariffs on hot water. I tried to tell you yesterday about Timoshenko, Kucherenko and other MPs about limiting NAK's appetites for Naftogazu and applying an economically sound price for gas. Instead, you did not support our revision. And this will inevitably lead to an increase in tariffs for heat at 40-50 percent, which is already happening in dozens of Ukrainian cities. I hope those Ukrainians who listen to me know what questions to ask their deputies about non-compliance. Dear friends, you just voted in favour of some corporate reform, yesterday you voted in favour of the Antimonopoly Committee for some reform that would cost them 500,000 dollars. Please tell me, what other institutions do you need to deal with this monopoly? The misunderstanding NAC Naftogazu's financial plan is nowhere to be found on the websites. It's doubled to 6 billion maintaining this worthless structure. 2.6 billion to support 1,200 employees; 1 billion 200 to foreign lawyers; 2 billion to others. That's what this monopolist put his price on gas, and that's what you're going to offer yesterday's vote to pay the Ukrainian people right now. Friends, you saw yesterday what a claim the military veterans came to you with. Get ready, very soon with the same tariff claim, the average Ukrainians will come at the price of gas. I hope that after our vacation we will return to this question. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u41	Thank you. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Dmitruk Artem Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head of Ukraine, there was a very unpleasant and resonant event in Odessa yesterday. During the wedding, the guests decided to drive around the city, block the street, race and drift on cars, and what was scary was the opening of a machine gun. The people who were there were in the hostages. And all of this happened in broad daylight in front of hundreds of people. As a national MP and a member of the Committee of Law, I immediately addressed my colleagues and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I received full support and understanding. The reaction of Odessa law enforcement agencies we saw immediately6 criminals were found and severely detained. At the same time, the detention took place at a high professional level. For this, I would like to thank the special task battalion, the special assignment of Cord, the criminal and patrol police, the investigative department, the migration police, the general, the head of the National Police Department of Beh Oleg Volodymirovich and all the participants in this operation. I have this situation under my own control. And until all of the participants in this OPG are identified, not only those who have been detained, but also those who have created conditions for such cynical attitudes toward our traditions, laws, and moral standards by their actions or omissions, I will not allow anyone to behave in this way toward Odessa and the inhabitants of our city. There won't be a Bandit saviour in Odessa. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. According to article 152 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code of the Cabinet of Ministers submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 June the Budget Declaration for 2022-2024. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues reviewed the Budget Declaration, the proposals that came from the National Deputies of Ukraine and the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and submitted a draft Decision of the Supreme Council on the Budget Declaration for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have been given a corresponding draft decision. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of the Budget Declaration is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. According to part five of article 152 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. In accordance with the Rules and proposals of the Committee on Budget Affairs, this is the order for consideration: a report by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine – within 10 minutes, a reply from the Ukrainian National Deputies – up to 9 minutes, a report from the Committee on Budget Affairs – up to 5 minutes, statements from the MPs and groups – up to 21 minutes, statements from the National Deputies – up to 6 minutes, then we go to the vote. Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u44	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! To meet the requirements of the Budget Code and the Rules of the Supreme Council, I present your opinion on the Budget Declaration for 2022-2024. I want to tell you that this is really a historical event, we're looking at a declaration for the first time for three years. Until the introduction of medium-term budgetary planning, our country has consistently gone on for the last 10 years. I've been doing this myself since 2011. Ukraine has joined the progressive countries of the world, which are implementing modern government finance management practices based on openness and predictability and efficiency. The introduction of the medium-term budgeting model is based on the positive experiences of countries such as Sweden, France, Germany, and the Netherlands. Why is this important? The business is oriented and planning processes for 3-5 years, the same situation has to be with government, we have to plan for the medium term. I want to tell you that despite the outbreak of the 2020 pandemic last year and the first half of this year, the government has laid a solid foundation for the practical implementation of this reform. In particular, in the second half of 2020 and the first half of 2021, macroeconomic stability was ensured. We have a stability course and a controlled inflation rate, we have a reliable macroeconomic forecast, it's confirmed by domestic and foreign economists and experts. We've created conditions for the effective functioning of fiscal organs. In 2020, government budget revenues increased by 77 billion dollars compared to 2019. During the first half of this year, the budget reached 64 billion dollars more than last year. Priority expenditure is financed in time and in full, and we carry out our own debt obligations. The government budget deficit last year was much lower than planned, we got 5.2 percent of GDP versus 7.5 percent originally planned. In the first half of the year, the government budget deficit accounts for less than 1 percent of gross domestic product. The budgetary declaration currently under consideration is not just a technical change in the budgetary process by adding 2 years to the State Budget project, it is the vision and effectiveness of the State that gives each of us a sense of security. We have honestly and openly set social and economic development priorities for the next three years. They take into account the tasks defined by the President of Ukraine, the Parliament and the Government's strategic documents. Public policy objectives are consistent with financial resources, established indicators that will contribute to the efficient use of budgetary resources, established basic budgetary rules, defined general income and government budget funding, set spending limits as the main cost manager of the public budget. There's a fiscal space that will allow the preparation of the State Budget project for the 22nd year to channel additional funding into priority tasks. The budget declaration was based on a macro-prognosis approved by the government for 2022-2024. In particular, GDP is projected to increase by 5 percent of GDP by 2024. This increase is called for by effective action to overcome the consequences of the pandemic and restore investment activity. The proceeds are based on current tax legislation and macroindicators. The budget is projected to increase in 2024 to 1 trillion 452 billion dollars, or 32 percent more than it is in the current year. At the same time, despite the increase in government budget revenues, the medium-term perspective will ensure that GDP distribution is reduced through budget revenues. This is a testimony to a balanced government policy of supporting citizens and businesses. In 2024 it is planned to reach an income distribution rate of 19.4 percent of the general budget. In terms of financing and debt policy. I would like to point out that with a view to bringing the deficit of the budget to the level set by the Budget Code, a gradual decline in the deficit of the budget from 3.5 percent of GDP in 2022 to 2.7 percent of GDP in 2024 is planned. The financing of the budget deficit is intended to be made mainly through the involvement of internal financial resources. The effective implementation of the government and the Ministry of Finance measures should ensure a reduction of government debt to 51.2 per cent of GDP in 2021, 13 per cent lower than in 2021. Taking into account the medium-term economic development parameters, financial resources will be provided over the next three years by the President, Parliament and Government, such as health care and health care, Health Ukraine; teacher support and quality education; a warning rise in social standards, such as the rise in minimum wage, the introduction of a mandatory compulsory pension insurance system, the creation of a barrier-free space, the Big Building, the "tourist magnets" and the restoration, the availability of mortgages and affordable loans, the digital transformation and other measures that you have identified as priorities. The general resource that is expected to be directed towards government policy is presented on the slide. In addition, additional proposals were made by the government under the Budget Declaration to amend tax legislation, which would allow more than 50 billion dollars to be added to the budget and to put a dot on multi-year schemes to minimize tax liabilities. We appreciate Parliament’s approval of Bill 5600 in the first reading and look forward to its consideration in the second reading and approval in general. We are ready for discussion. All economic accounts are ready to be made, those who have not submitted, and are ready for further discussion with the National Deputies. In summary, I would like to say that the Budget Declaration is the basis for the drafting of the State budget and the projections of the local budgets. It is very important that you and I have been able to reach compromise, and Parliament has supported this medium-term budgeting document, made its recommendations on budgetary policy for the next three years. The government is processing proposals within the limits of resources and is already preparing a 2022 State Budget project based on your recommendations and this budget policy document that we are currently considering. The main goal with you is to create a high-quality basis for improving the efficiency of government spending and the predictability of budgetary policy. This is a guarantee of macroeconomic development, macroeconomic stability and sustained economic development. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u45	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u46	The Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u47	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, not everyone really understands what is happening now is a historic event for fiscal policy in Ukraine: for the first time, we have the opportunity to adopt a three-year budget statement on three-year budget planning. This is very important because it helps because the budget cycle is getting more predictable, and the indicators that I see that are related to the deficit (this reduction) that are related to the decline in the role of the state in the economy to 24 percent is a big positive. Yes, indeed, there's a negative, some things aren't fully predicted, not completely calculated, but this is the first time, so I hope that the government and the Ministry of Finance will take this into account next time. And my question is very simple: what's going to be on the way to improving this process, so that in the future these shortcomings, which are including.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, for your support. Indeed, this is a historic event, without exaggeration, for the first time an independent country's parliament is considering, has the opportunity not to actually look at the budget on its knees, not under the tree. We're actually planning a three-year perspective. And all the comments that have been made, including you, will be fully taken into account in the further development of these documents. This document will be improved if it is adopted in the next year’s consideration. We're going to add one year, we're going to specify some parameters, we're going to adjust them. But this is a normal practice when we really take responsibility for our budgetary indicators, budget parameters, business and Ukrainian citizens. So thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u50	Puzan's Alexander Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u51	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u52	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Head. See, we carefully analyzed the document. Unfortunately, there are very scary numbers for the national economy and for Ukrainian citizens. A few digits. First. For example, the minimum pension for January 2024 is $77 in dollars, whereas in 2013 the pension was $119. You're at least predicting 2 thousand 778 dollars, or 95 dollars. So it was $147 in 2013. Do you understand the inadmissibility of such figures for Ukrainian citizens? First. Second, regarding the macroeconomic situation. The country's GDP, which may be there in 2024, is 228 billion. It's a treeborg that's growing at a crazy rate. If you put 47 percent of GDP from 228 billion, that means that the debt will go up to 107 billion dollars, plus 16 billion to today's figure. These are very large numbers, and I'm not talking about budget deficits anymore. Don't you think we should just rewrite it from scratch? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. As for the minimum wage and other social parameters, we're ready to hear your suggestions -- this is a common document -- how, according to which sources you predict a substantial increase in the minimum parameters. At the same time, together with Parliament, the government will be ready to work and when preparing the draft budget to invent additional sources, because, in principle, we've given fiscal space, and this together is up to us to decide how to distribute this fiscal space. If it's a priority -- minimum social standards -- we're willing to support it. So these parameters don't mean that it has to be this way. They can be enlarged, this has to be the subject of discussion. That's why we're ready to discuss this with you in Parliament right now. In terms of government debt, I want to say that we are consistently and objectively carrying out fiscal consolidation and reduction of government debt. As I pointed out in my statement, the level of government debt is consistently approaching fairly normal parameters: 50 percent to GDP. So in 2024 it's going to be 51.7 percent, then it's going to go down. The government has consistently pursued policies to reduce the debt burden on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u55	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u56	Please pass Alexia to the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u57	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u58	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I would certainly like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite the requirements, including the codex, there are absolutely no calculations. So these numbers, we don't know where you got them from, how you calculated them. I'd like to ask you to fill it in with proper calculations. And when this declaration appears on the government site, Minfin, and, by the way, there needs to be a separate chapter on this so that everyone can get to know it, make calculations. Because it turns out that we have a government working without a program, we accept a declaration without a reckoning. You and I are filling everything with good wishes, but we've all heard of 500,000 jobs that no one has ever seen. And so this Budget Declaration, which actually has a lot of questions and questions to it, but so it doesn't even positively become just a piece of paper that no one's going to pay any attention to and make it for a twig, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, we, the government, act according to the law. In accordance with the law, we were to give the nationals all the necessary calculations, and we gave them to them. So I am responsibly saying that the Budget Declaration is backed up by serious, I am stressing once again, serious calculations. This was done mathematically, we evaluated the parameters of the macroeconomic forecast. And if we need any extra calculations, we're ready to do them. But we thank you for supporting this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u60	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u61	Please pass the word to the Fedin of Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u62	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u63	Well, actually, the Budget Declaration, which foresees planning for three years, seems kind of strange in the context that we're a warring state, we're a state that has to resist Moscow aggression, but even in this declaration, we don't have enough funding for the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we don't have enough funds to increase the cost of providing the army with modern weapons, including advanced Ukrainian development. But even in recent years, we haven't been able to issue a million dollars of money to plug into existing NATO standards dormitories. That's the first one. And the second question. I think it would be better than planning the University of Greens, on which 7.2 billion dollars is invested, to transfer to an updated material and technical base of existing national universities, and thereby support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u64	I would like to point out that the security and defence sector is a priority. And the budget declaration for 2022-2024 provides sufficient funds to ensure that the tasks provided by the authorities are carried out. In particular, a resource of at least 900 billion dollars is available for three years. It can be effectively distributed and provided for all programs, including those listed by you. This resource accounts for at least 5 percent of GDP, as provided by law. So now the question for the profile department: the Defense Departments, other law enforcement agencies and security agencies -- effectively allocate this resource for 2022, 2023 and 2024 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u65	Thank you. Question time's up. Please sit down, Minister. Cubbitt Yuri Mikhailovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u66	Dear Dmitri Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! In accordance with article 152 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budgetary Questions considered the 2022 - 2024 Budget Declaration, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Committee's letter provides detailed information on the basis for the development of the Budget Declaration and its basic parameters, as well as individual observations to such a document. In particular, since the legislative introduction of the medium-term budgeting, the government has for the first time approved and submitted a declaration to the Supreme Council of Budgets, which, in substance and form, is fundamentally different from the basic thrusts of budgetary policy previously submitted to Parliament. The Budget Declaration provides financial and economic justifications that do not contain adequate calculations, so it is not possible to analyse the reality and soundness of the budgetary declaration, as well as to assess the consistency and implementation of budgetary policy in the absence of a relevant policy document for the previous medium term. The budget declaration was approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, but it did not become an official instrument and was not accordingly incorporated into legislation, despite the requirement of article 33 of the Code of Budget for Ukraine. In general, the Budget Declaration contains most of the provisions defined in part nine of article 33 of the Budget Code, but there are no separate mandatory components. That is: the main types of government budget income, the amount of the State road fund in the right directions, the marginal rates of expenditure under the main security and defence arrangements, the projected inter-budget transfers by their types. Moreover, the budget declaration should be in line with the government debt management strategy, but the Cabinet of Ministers did not approve it. Then there is the question of the reality of the budgetary declaration's intentions to reduce the state budget deficit and the government's debt for not seeing the government strategically in terms of debt management. The Budget Declaration proposes changes to tax legislation that will allow for an increase of 34 billion dollars in the government budget. So depending on the drafting and adoption of the bill, the government will be able to have a substantial increase in income in the budget for 2022 compared to the budget declaration. In addition, an additional increase in income is seen to be possible if positive dynamics of overcoming arrivals are continued in the second half of this year, further improvements in tax administration efficiency, and the use of measures to detoxify the economy. Proposals for the Budget Declaration were made to the committee by individual national deputies and committees, as well as by some authorities and organizations. In doing so, most of the proposals are designed to complement the direction of budgetary policy and increase the cost thresholds without providing adequate calculations and sources of coverage. At the same time, the proposals have addressed a number of relevant issues that need to be carefully worked out and addressed in the context of the implementation of structural reform of medium-term budgeting and the preparation of the 2022 budget. On the basis of the Committee’s consideration of the matter, a draft Supreme Council Regulation No. 5765 on the Budget Declaration for 2022-2024 was prepared. The project proposes to take note of this declaration and to endorse the Supreme Council's recommendations on budgetary policy, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers should process and take action on specific issues in the preparation of the 2022 State Budget Bill and the 2023-2025 Budget Declaration. The recommendations, among other things, provide for the task of: increasing the income of the export budget, involving investments; increasing the living minimum and minimum wage; identifying the necessary expenditure for the implementation of the health insurance programme; increasing public investment; preserving stable sources of local budgets; limiting the responsibility of the authorities in relation to decentralization; and changing the administration with further refinement of the distribution of income and expenditure between local self-government budgets and district budgets. Thus, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends that the Supreme Council take note of the budget declaration for 2022-2024 and approve the recommendations of the Supreme Council on budgetary policy through the adoption of draft Decree No. 5765. In addition, the Committee decided to send the Cabinet of Ministers proposals to the National Deputies and Committees for processing and accounting in the preparation of the State Budget Project for 2022 and to recommend that Minfin ensure the implementation of organizational and methodological measures related to the need to comply with legislation and improve the quality of medium-term budgetary planning. Please support the committee's decision, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u67	Thank you, Yuri Mikhailovich. Honorable National Deputies — Is There a Need to Be Discussed? Yeah? Of course. Then I'd like you to sign up for a statement from the MP factions and groups. I'd like to remind you that it takes up to 21 minutes for a three-minute performance, please. The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u68	Dear Chairman, I ask you to pass on the word of Natalia to the Jury of the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u69	Please, Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u70	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! We have an interesting day with you today. If a declaration had been made earlier on how to rob Ukrainians for just a year, this time it had been decided to move on: They had already decided to accept a plan to rob Ukrainians for three years. You and I are all very well aware that this declaration has nothing to do with the Ukrainian budgetary declaration and does not correspond at all to the Constitution of Ukraine. This is more like the IMF's plan to destroy the entire social protection of Ukrainians. And this is a government plan to rob our Ukrainians. I listened very carefully to the minister who reported on this budget declaration. And I loved it, as he said, that we created conditions for the effective functioning of fiscal organs. Dearly beloved, but perhaps it is time to create conditions in our country for the normal lives of people? Perhaps it is time to create conditions for our industry and our economy to develop? But he went on, he says, but we're good, we have plus 64 billion extra revenue to the budget, we've had a deficit reduction in six months, almost 1 percent deficit. Your Honor, there's only one question: "Where's the money, Zin?" Where's the money you just locked in the budget today? Why are these 64 billion dollars unrepentant, subsidized, social assistance? Why did the military pensioners storm parliament yesterday? Because they are not given their legitimate deserved money for protecting our country. What's the pensioner getting today, 2,000 dollars of pension, and you canceled the promised raise, saying there's no money? So it turns out that in your words, there is money, but you don't give it to people. I really liked what you said, what a sense of security gives to all of us. Do we have a sense of security? Yes, almost every "green" MP in this House has one, and there is one in the government. But there is no sense of security today in any of our country’s average citizens. So we strongly deny this declaration, and we think it's a declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u71	Krulko Ivanovich, please, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u72	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, what I'd like to say is, I really want to welcome today's finance minister, because for the first time in Parliament, there's a budget declaration that defines medium-term budget planning. That's right. And Fatherland has consistently advocated that we have medium-term budgetary planning. But to our belief, medium-term budgetary planning should be primarily designed to allow us to go back to the parameters that are provided for in Ukraine's legislation. And we certainly have a number of observations about this budget declaration that I would like to pay particular attention to. We have real questions about whether gross domestic product growth will be ensured, which is foreseen in the Budget Declaration, taking into account that in the current 2021, in the first quarter of the country, the real GDP declined by 2.2 percent. From what will it really grow? Moreover, negative trade balance dynamics are planned. So what's the economic growth going to be like? According to the macro-prediction, public utility tariffs will increase by 6 percent in 2022, 2203 in 5, 2024 in 5. These are very, you know, optimistic indicators set out in the Budget Declaration, considering that this year, in 2021, population tariffs for hot water and heating will increase by 33 percent in the fall, taking into account the growth that took place in the spring. Of course, the matter of pension insurance was raised in the hall today. And we, as Fatherland, cannot agree that the actual subsistence minimum proposed in the Budget Declaration is proposed for 2022-2024 years at 2,000 393 bracelets in January 22nd, and 2,000 972 bracelets in December 24th. This does not cover even half the actual size of the subsistence minimum, which at this point is going to be 4,000 340 dollars, but at least at 24, 5,000 695 dollars. We certainly do not have the support of agricultural producers. During the special agrarian tax regime under the government of Yulia Timoshenko, aid to agriculture amounted to 27 billion dollars, 27 billion dollars. So now it's set up in the budget declaration of just about 4.5 billion dollars, which doesn't meet any conditions that relate to the real support that agriculture needs today. Taking into account the completely unthinkable sale of land that was launched today since July 1st in Ukraine and against which "Fatherland" is speaking, the same is true, of course, of inter-budget relations, including local budgets. It is totally unacceptable that local budgets will be available.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u73	The word is given to the national deputy Lušnjak Mikola Volodymyrovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u74	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor Minister, the National Deputies! Of course, first of all, it should be noted that this is a completely new approach in our country. And, no doubt, the three-year budget declaration is an important document to ensure transparency of budgetary policy. And it's especially important when we have decentralization and new communities want to plan their development for the next three years, based on the Budget Declaration. It is a good thing that among the priorities of budgetary policy you, Mr. Minister, together with the Ministry, have noted both resilience and energy dependency, and education, medicine, social policy, that is good. And in principle, this document is formally consistent with the Budget Code on the content of its basic provisions. At the same time, unfortunately, there are a number of problems in the document that we have pointed out, and I would like to pay attention to them, namely: the size of the subsistence minimum that is proposed for the next three years does not cover even half the actual size of the subsistence minimum that is in our country today. Second, what's important is that you haven't made any proposals to solve our debt problems, which are growing every year. Thirdly, it is important that the fiscal decentralization situation in our country is very and very low, so it is necessary to do so in relation to local budgets for the coming years in order to improve the methods and mechanisms of both vertical and horizontal alignment of local budgets. This should be done primarily by taking into account the figures of all budgets, including the cities of Kiev, when calculating the amounts of basic subsidies for the following years. Second, important. To calculate the reverse grant, you use two-year-olds. It's totally unfair, and it's not a real equation. So you need to take real indicators so that communities can develop, not turn it into a budget. Third, Mr. Minister, what is very important is the calculation of an educational subsidy. It needs to be increased to the next year, and I would like to stress that this year we also need to add money to teachers' wages so that we don't close schools in the countryside. But in general, the Budget Declaration is an important document. That's why the Trust MP group supports this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u75	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich. Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u76	Anton Polyakov, MP Group for the Future, Montenegro. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to start by saying that in this declaration, you haven't discussed in any way the issue of the efficiency of the government's work and their wages. Because when you went to power, you promised our president that you were following the idea. But now what's happening is that ministers get 50,000 or 80,000 dollars for this job, members of these, useless, let's say, supervisory boards or corporate directors get millions of wages, like Mr. Smilianski, he gets almost a million dollars in wages. For what? Because these companies show negative results in their work. How will you be responsible for the fact that these declarations will not be carried out? Secondly, government reforms aimed at supporting small, medium-sized businesses are all very good. But I don't understand, somehow you're showing that by the year 24, you're going to have a negative balance on import-exports to increase by as much as $10 billion, and we're going to be supporting foreign economies, and you're saying that you're going to stimulate the development of our business, the creation of our jobs, but you're showing completely different numbers. Then, about social policy. It's all very well, but what's going on, why are you prescribing the tariff policy that's going on right now? Why, instead of what Herman Galuchenko promised us two months ago, and recently, in the last plenary week, he promised us that he would develop and present a plan of normal tariffs for the population. What are you doing now? On the contrary, you are implementing a plan for raising tariffs. As far as subsidies are concerned. Why are subsidies decreasing, why are you reducing the number of subsidies? Why did Lazebna say that there would be an increase in pensions and an allowance for pensioners over 75 years of age, but you can't even do that? How can we trust you to do this declaration in two years if you cannot plan your work for two weeks? It's about the minimum of living. It's just a fiction when you change some approach to calculating, calculating this minimum of living, because you're nominally increasing it, and the payments associated with this minimum of living are decreasing. So this is a good declaration really, these are slides of potteruk that you just translated into words, and no more. But as you're really going to work, we don't understand, and what you're going to continue to get your salary for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u77	Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u78	Guys, where's Zelenski? And he wanders on the equator of his presidency. Half of Zelensky’s term has passed, and no one is going to do anything that is promised. The budget declaration for the coming years, my friends, is a receipt in its own helplessness, a manifest duty. He is unable to use an unprecedentedly favourable external market environment for Ukraine, beginning with grain and finishing with black metals, but he does not know how to turn it in favor of the pockets of every ordinary Ukrainian citizen. Maybe she wants to, but she can't. Every Ukrainian family now pays a high price for non-professionalism and full administrative helplessness, pays low wages, pays low pensions, pays cloudy tariffs, pays high prices. And the budget resolution shows that there is no economic strategy. The roads must be built, but two years ago, twice as many miles were built for the same money. I firmly believe that now this "great theft" goes not in the pocket of any other team, but in its own pocket. I firmly believe that we should ask for responsibility when a year ago in this Hall Greensky promised to double the tariffs, and the cost of one payment has now increased by more than 50 percent. The number of families receiving subsidies, the least protected groups, has doubled, from 7 million to 3 million, and government budget subsidies have also decreased by 2.5 times, from 73 billion dollars to 36. So we demand that the Budget Resolution foresee a substantial increase in the expenditure on subsidies, just as changes to the State Budget Act have been made. We're demanding an increase in wages, the financial provision of contractors, which was last increased by my commission in early 19th year, a commitment to teachers, doctors, a decline in middle-class taxes, a focus on key reforms and the restoration of investor confidence. Because the age of poverty will come to an end, but not in your time, "ministers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u79	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the fact that we are considering the Budget Declaration today is a historic event. A few years ago, when a decision was made and it was agreed that a medium-term budget planning would finally take place in Ukraine, it was a long time ago. But since then, the Budget Declaration has never been accepted by the Supreme Council. Budget planning is medium-term, it's needed by every state, because medium-term budget planning is primarily predictable. We all know how we do the budget process every year. It's a very complex process where no one ever knows until September, until the government gives the first version of the budget, and what will happen, what will be the deficit, what will be the income, what will be the expenditure and other indicators. The budget statement allows us to predict these things, so we'll now know roughly what parameters will be in September and we'll be able to respond to them. And next year, and two years later. Yes, there are certainly many comments. I heard a lot of comments on the committee yesterday from the Accounting Chamber, which I actually agree with most of them. I have heard many comments from many colleagues. But there is a lot of positive. This is mainly true of global macro-indicators. This reduces deficits to 2019 levels, almost to 2019 levels. This means that we have to borrow less and less appropriately and spend the budget on paying off the debt. This is a decline in the role of the state in the economy. Once again, the share of government spending will decline to the level of 2019, as it was before the crisis. And that's also a positive indicator, because the state is less efficient in its use of funds, and the economy has to grow at the expense of the real sector. So, colleagues, yes, there really are many flaws, but there is a lot of positive. And first of all, this is a historic moment that will help us better plan the next budgets. So I will personally support this declaration and encourage other colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u81	The word is given to the national MP, Mr. Getmantsev Danil Aleksandrovitch, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u82	First of all, I want to thank the government for not exaggerating the historical event. For the first time in the Supreme Council, we see the Budget Declaration, which is a document of medium-term planning, which is a document that allows us to calculate our finances according to the plans of our state policy for three years ahead. This is the predictability that we have demanded of the government and the predictability that we have received. This is a real and pragmatic plan for the country's development, this is a declaration of continuous development. Why is there no miracle in the declaration? Perhaps because there are no wonders, there is no real life. Not in a country that has been killed for 28 years, and especially in the last five years, poverty has led to poverty; in a country that has had its social standards frozen in the last five years, social standards that a person cannot live on, where poverty has the majority of the country’s population. And that's the result of the previous power. And it is not possible to correct in one day, in one year, those errors that have been committed within five years. But what is in the declaration? The increase in income from the budget is more than 100 billion per year at the expense of detinction, due to the withdrawal of the economy from the shadows; the reduction in government debt in 2024 to 51 percent; the increase in GDP growth and the increase in average wages to almost 20,000 dollars in 2024; the decent level of inflation; and the reduction in the share of the reallocation of gross domestic product through the budget. At the same time, as I worked on the Budget Declaration in the Supreme Council, I am grateful that my comments were also taken into account. Yes, the additional revenues for the detinction of the economy, the creation of a special State Budget fund for the State Fund for the Support of Medicine, Sport and Education for the Income of the Game Business; an increase in the share of local budgets in the budget; an annual gradual increase in the National Bank's income to the budget; an index of the minimum wage rate at no lower than the projected level of inflation; a gradual increase in the financing of medicine to 5 per cent of GDP; an increase and differentiation of total payments at the birth of children; and programmes, numerous programmes aimed at the development of our State's industry, which should become a driver for the development of Ukraine's economy, which we should restore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies. Let's go to the vote. And, more questions from the national MPs, speak to the national MPs. Excuse me, six minutes. And let's go to the vote. Sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u84	Please pass the word to my colleague Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u85	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u86	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we have once again brought out such a beautiful piece of paper – a program: look, Budget Declaration, we are looking at the future, 2022-2024. But, my friends, the question is, who's going to do all this? We have heard all these declarations from the active authorities many times. Have we forgotten about 500,000 jobs? Where are the 500,000 jobs? Apart from the infinite number of ministries, the change in their names, everything else that's going on here, the Bronze movement. He's not here. Where is the government’s program of action approved by the government? That's fantastic! In a state of monogamy! The majority! And it's not able to accept its own government program. What does the government do? Where does he go? No one knows the answer to that question. Where are all the promises made by this authority? Double tariff cuts, hey, where's that? When you said you were going to provide social protection for people, there's twice as much money planned for the grant as in 2018: 36 billion versus 72. This, since 2018, has our population become twice as rich, or has our tariffs been doubled, as Zelensky said? Maybe he's got something down, personally for him, for his villa in Concha-Sleep, but definitely not for Ukrainian citizens. There's nothing to it. On the contrary, the entire economic policy of government is terrible. Look at what's going on in the field of investment. We've had an investment outflow last year for the first time in years. We had our first GDP drop in 49 months in January of the 20th, before COVID. Why? And because there's no politics and all the investors are so freaked out, our "investors" are so scared that they scared these "investees" that they don't want to come here. Look at what happens to alternative energy -- it's destroyed at the root. The promises made by the authorities are not being fulfilled. In the arbitration, investors say, it's going down, nobody notices it at all. Look at the bills they're making. It just sounded again: industry. Where is the industry? Is this when you're planning to raise the freight tariffs again on the Railroad? Is this likely to help the industry? Will industry be helped by the 5600 Bill that you want to destroy in principle everything you want to destroy, construction, agriculture, agriculture? You're not doing anything for the development of this state, you're just handing out papers, taking off bits and showing us all the presentations. I'm sorry, but you can't eat the presentation and put the wax in the fridge.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u87	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I think it's a good thing that the declaration is made on time. Nicolanca, Fatherland. But perhaps it is enough to commend the government for doing what it has to do according to the law and its obligations? It is bad that he has not prepared or given us a program of his activities. So we have some fantasy for three years about what the budget should be. And we don't understand what the program is going to be for those fantasies the government has made. This has already been said, so I'm not going to analyze it. But a few important aspects. On the one hand, there is a significant decline in social finance in the budget declaration, with very optimistic tax-gathering forecasts. It's very important to understand. I'm representing the tax and financial committee. And I'll draw your attention, every year for the next three years, the government plans to raise an average of 115-120 billion dollars more in taxes. That means about 10 to 15 percent of today's budget. And how much did the government put in the growth of the economy? 3 percent, 3.5 percent. Accordingly, the economy will grow less than the same declaration, and tax collectors want more. The question then arises: Who, how will they gather from, and how does this budget declaration agree with, the plans (such a joyful declaration) laid down in Bill 5600? In fact, we see that at the same time (for colleagues who are not economists) plans to reduce the budget deficit is good, but on the other hand, to collect more taxes. And the rate of growth of the economy is not anticipated. So from all of this, we're going to go into this situation that, not by giving up, but simply by serving the government debt on account of that pyramid that's been built over the last few years and has continued to build up until now, we're going to be paying 10-15 percent of our debt service budget, I'm not talking about his return. Therefore, this budget declaration has nothing to do with it, except that it has been introduced on time. That's it, dot. Everything else is a set of fantasies that are not about people and that are unfortunately not backed up by real economic calculations on economic growth. We've heard that we're going to do everything we can to make the industry grow. So, other bills, including those voted in today's Hall and voted out of turn, you're doing everything to keep the economy from growing, but it's harder for it to change jurisdiction, and we're losing jobs. I'm not even going to talk about government fantasies, about the new 500,000. It's just completely incompatible things. The people who wrote this, and those who plan to develop the economy, they don't communicate with each other. This is a disgrace indeed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u89	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. In accordance with part six of article 152 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 5765) on the Budget Declaration for 2022-2024. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:34:22]] For 269 Decision taken. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Gerasimov? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, today the whole world knows that almost a year ago there was a coup d'état in the higher cabinets of the state, when the operation to detain the "vagnerians" was lifted, and let's face it, we've had more than 30 dead Ukrainians, Ukrainian soldiers, civilians and children delayed. You know, I've always been very surprised by the evolution of Zelensky's response to these events. Remember, at first, it was all fiction, nothing happened. After that, it was, but it wasn't ours. I was most impressed when Mr. Zelensky expressed his satisfaction, you just think about it, the satisfaction that Ukrainian killers do not sit in Ukrainian prison. He expressed his satisfaction. In fact, what state does he live in? What kind of world does he fly today? And the next step was when the opposition demanded the TSC for over a year. They created the TSC, but not the issue of the Wagnerians, but for everything good against everything bad, in order to create a smoke curtain for that treason of the state that they didn't want to investigate. And let's be honest, the question of breaking the operation on the Wagnerians and treason there is not the only one in the chain of treason. Let's think about the attack on Ukraine's missile programs. Let's think about the situation with POPs. Let's think about the situation with the clichés, who knows what it is. Let's mention the attack on our Swedish scouts. Do you believe that a projectile falls into one crow five or six times? And the persecution of the battle generals for strengthening the forces of the sea of Ukraine7 Zelensky first ploughs against the boats, and then the war generals are judged to have strengthened the defense of our state. And this is about this TSC. To this day, all democratic factions have left this TSC. And there is today an intercom between the "Serves of the People" and the "Fifth Column." That's why today three factions: "European Solidarity", "Voice" and "Fatherland" have registered the Order 5770, which is written in white: our factions are willing to participate in this TSC, we are ready to attend its meetings, but under one key condition, it will be confirmed in writing that the main task of this TSC is to investigate the state case against "vagres". And I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give an urgent commission to the committee to consider this determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u91	Let's move on to the next order of the day. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 to increase the cost of purchasing, designing and installing oxygen stations. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote immediately? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] You make up your mind. Then it is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:38:29]] For 247 Decision taken. Sosun Inna Romanovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u92	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Director - General of the World Health Organization stated that the world is now at the beginning of the third wave of coronavirus. Last week was the fourth week in a row where COVID-19 is increasing worldwide. After 10 weeks of decline in the number of deaths, so the number of deaths from COVID-19 began to increase. This is not limited to less developed countries. Yes, in the Netherlands, just last week, COVID-19 cases increased by 7 times. And it's very naive to think that a new wave of COVID-19 will pass Ukraine. Ukraine will have the same effect. So, let's be honest, those vaccination rates that we're seeing right now aren't going to keep us out of this situation. What is the rate of vaccination now? Only 5.5 percent of the population of Ukraine received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, the second dose was given to 2.7 percent of the population of Ukraine. So we have to understand that the third wave is going to be, whether we want it or not, and we have to finally get ready for it. And what does this bill actually propose? He suggests that we systematically address the problem of oxygen supply in Ukrainian hospitals because the problem remains unresolved today. We spent a lot of money investing in the hospital, but, along with looking at the data, a quarter of hospitals now have less than 10 percent oxygen supply, each fifth hospital has no oxygen flow in principle. In fact, we insist that we eventually allocate resources to get oxygen stations in hospitals so that hospitals stop being dependent on the supply of oxygen balloons that are coming. And it's important to do it now, so that we can get ready and get into the new moment ready. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u93	Thank you. The vice president of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Gevko Volodymir Leonidovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u94	Dear Head, honourable national deputies and invitees, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on 14 July considered Bill 5460. According to the authors, it is intended to cover the critical need of health support facilities in oxygen stations, which is proposed to increase by 800 million dollars the expenditure of the Ministry of Health and the income of the State Budget General Fund. With regard to the legislative initiative in the conclusions of GNEU and Minfin, it is noted that there are no adequate grounds for additional expenditure and sources of expenditure, which does not allow for an assessment of the real need of health facilities in additional oxygen stations and the need to take into account the amount of funds proposed, as well as the ability to ensure that expenditure is covered by a defined source. In addition, the bill requires substantial work to harmonize legal rules and to ensure budgetary balance, it does not take into account changes already made to the State budget and does not meet the requirements of the Budget Code in part of the approval of transfers to local budgets. The relevant comments and suggestions are detailed in the opinion of the bill committee. In conclusion, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 5460 to the Supreme Council to include in the order of the day’s fifth session and on the basis of the first reading, instructing the committee to finalize the proposed bill and to submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council in the second reading. And as one of the co-authors, I want to stress the importance of this bill. This bill, without exaggeration, is about the lives of our people. We all remember these situations when an oxygen - carrying car does not arrive at the hospital for any reason. Hospitals should be able to generate oxygen on their own. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, request to sign up: two for, two for, against, for the performance. Danuza Alexander Anatoliyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u96	I have the categorical support of a colleague who has now reported this important Law 5460. Like a person who had 40 percent of the impression of the lungs in the Coronary. I think we have an absolute responsibility today to those people who might die without getting qualified, quality help today. So 5460, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u97	Thank you. National Deputy Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u98	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Please pass the word to my colleague John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u99	Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u100	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the first question is, is it important and necessary for a bill? Yes, this bill is important and this bill is necessary. He foresees one very important thing: providing our hospitals with oxygen concentrators. Let's not be happy, the rate of vaccination that's taking place in Ukraine, we're told that every day they're increasing, but they're at an extremely low level. We take the last place in Europe by the number of vaccinated citizens. Accordingly, we must prepare for the fall in which we are, for God's sake, but there may be a new wave of cod. And if our hospitals are not fully equipped with oxygen concentrates, we will again find ourselves in a critical situation. And of course, Fatherland will support this bill, and our colleague at the Valery Dubyl faction is co-author of the bill. But why is this bill not passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Why is there no Prime Minister here who has to beat and tell the whole country that national MPs need to vote on such bills in order to provide the country with oxygen concentrators? Does this have to be the initiative of the national deputies? Do national MPs know all the calculations that are needed are real to provide oxygen for the entire country? Of course not. So the "Paternity" position: we're voting on this bill in the first reading, the second reading we're looking at the real need for medical institutions to be able to allocate funds. And there must be a position of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers as to how to actually prepare the country for a possible new outbreak of coronavirus, and so that we don't put ashes on our heads, but we are confident that Ukrainian citizens will receive proper medical care. Let's vote on this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u101	The next one is Frost. Is it? Royal? Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, well, it hasn't been a year since we even started to consider a small but very important bill today to protect people. "The opposition platform is for life," of course, will support this decision, but we agree that this is not enough, and we need to take the time right now to prepare for the fall, to give people at least the hope that their oxygen will be plugged in and their bed will be added to the hospital, if that's what it takes. And I want to remind you that exactly a year ago, there were new developments in the reform of the Suprun when the new protocols began to be implemented. So this year, unfortunately, NZU has not been able to review these protocols, correct the mistakes, listen to the doctors, find out where to improve the system. Well, you promised, you promised to undo the reform of Suprun. All right, once again you promised, but you didn't, well, at least give the doctors a chance to work, give them an adequate protocol. This reform has now led to the complete destruction of rural medicine, and women have already begun to give birth to homes, just as in the old days, when they could not get to the hospital, and now. Doctors leave the country every week and medical personnel leave because your promised salary raise never took place. Unfortunately, most hospitals today think of cutting, closing, because they will not survive in these conditions, but in front of a new wave of coronavirus. Therefore, dear colleagues, we need to gather urgently to reverse this reform of Suprun and to allow our doctors to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u103	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. A potter's boy? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u104	Friends, today the World Health Organization has announced the beginning of the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, and this is very serious. It's summer, the numbers are down, it's getting easier. And it's obviously such a difficult subject at all, but, friends, we have to prepare for the fall. And it should not have happened twice in Ukraine when Ukraine’s first two waves proved to be the worst. The government has completely failed to prepare for the fight against the pandemic. Look at the vaccination figures today: this morning, Ukraine is the worst in Europe, once again, the worst in Europe by the number of vaccines per capita. We have one vaccine given to 5.5 percent of Ukrainians. For comparison. I'm talking about Britain -- 80 percent, Germany, Serbia and Slovakia have 40 percent. Jesus Christ, Belarus, where this crazy usurper wants to treat the crown virus with a tractor, and in front of us! See how the equipment was purchased. The oxygen concentrators that our political power bought for people, we bought them from 19 to 25,000 dollars for one -- the authorities bought 39,000 dollars. Here are the real numbers. See that we are not provided for all of this today. In my constituency in the city of Podilsk, I have a hunting hospital for patients with COVID from all north of Odeščina, 300,000 inhabitants of the area. Guys, there's still no oxygen station, so far, third wave. And we're like, you know, in that movie, on the ridge of this wave, but that's very bad, and that means we pay for human lives for such powerlessness. We're voting for this law now, there's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u105	All those who wish to speak? The shortwave, the Bilozer, then we go to the vote. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group "For the Future" will definitely support this bill. And I'd like to point out to my colleagues that it's not about oxygen concentrates, it's about oxygen stations. And that's much more important. Every major in our country knows what kind of oxygen problem has existed and exists today. And buying oxygen stations is going to help solve these problems in cadaveral hospitals. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that not all cadaver hospitals receive these payments. This is also a question that I ask you to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u107	Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u108	Colleagues, it is absolutely necessary to support this bill because we need to prepare the country for the next wave of COVID. And to tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised by the position of Kabmina, and he's the one who should be introducing this bill. Instead, they deny, and the MOH and Minfin conclusions are negative, because they seem to be oxygen concentrators for primary medicine. Resilient hospitals and primary medicine are different things. And just like oxygen stations, which can generate oxygen themselves, and concentrators, which are just for the average difficulty that needs to be served, are also different things. Therefore, it is imperative to maintain it because our hospitals need very high - capacity gas generators, which are about to produce oxygen from the atmosphere. And that billion that was allocated at the end of December, and our hospitals couldn't win them over, and they didn't make it transitional, is also a huge disgrace. That's why hospitals and districts are waiting. We need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u109	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on the increase in expenditure on the purchase, design and installation of oxygen stations (registration number 5460). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:24]] For 347 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's only a few minutes left before the break. There were proposals to consider, without discussion, two decrees and another draft of the second reading. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision on the 30th anniversary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 5758). Please support and vote. [[11:55:15.]] For 344 Decision taken. The next question is registration number 5639, which is the observance of memorial dates and Jubilee. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance amending the Appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on Determining Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2021 (Registration No. 5639). Please support and vote. [[11:56:01]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is also an offer to consider, because, as the committee has told me, no one will insist on the bill of registration 5009. Is there no objection? This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to facilitate the integration of electricity networks. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to facilitate the integration of electricity networks. Don't scream, please. 5009. Please support and vote. [[11:57:01]] For 347 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one more minute. There's also Bill 4629-1. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the improvement of license networking mechanisms for the implementation of quality, high-quality secondary education. There's only one amendment, committee. Is there no objection? We're voting it out, and we're taking a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u110	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u111	Yes, let's make sure you're heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u112	Good afternoon! Request for full consideration of Amendment 29. Now it's taken into account by the committee editorially, but we insist that it be included entirely in the author's essay. This will make it easier to go to a senior training school in rural areas. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, number 29 of the People's Deputies of Koleboshin, it's taken into account in an editorial way. The author, I understand, insists on taking full account? Right? Looking at the committee head, I understand what logic is, right? Then I ask you to vote. I said it right. [[11:58:33]] For 336 You see, I wasn't wrong. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the improvement of licensing mechanisms for the implementation of quality professional secondary education (registration No. 4629-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. You don't like business. [[11:59:22]] For 334 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u114	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. You have been invited to consider the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 29.06. 2021 on the adoption, as a whole, of the Ukrainian draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of Inventory Control (Registration No. 3743-P, 3743-P1). The National Deputy of Ukraine Sukhov is invited to attend. You don't? None. Stealth. None. Can we vote without discussion? Then please welcome Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u115	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed draft Supreme Council rulings on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 29 June on the adoption as a whole of the Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences (Registration No. 3743). The relevant draft regulations were made by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Sukhov (registration 3743-P) and Ustinov (3743-P1). As pointed out by the authors of these draft regulations, the draft law as a whole contradicts the principle of legislative balance, a clear interpretation of legislative acts (this is with regard to draft Decree 3743-President). It is pointed out that, at the time of Parliament's adoption of this decision, a number of requirements of the Constitution and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the procedure for Parliament's adoption of laws were violated. In summary, the Regulatory Committee adopted the conclusions on draft regulations 3743-P and 3743-P1 and recommended that the Supreme Council be decided by a vote on their acceptance or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u116	Thank you, Sergio Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this determination? Sign up: two in, two in. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u118	Didn't I hear who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u119	Kubi, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u120	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u121	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, we will support this decision, because when we discuss the principles of legislative initiatives that have been, it is doubtful that the amendments proposed in the bill to many articles on failure by drivers to meet the requirements for a stop. And we're saying that failure to comply with the requirements of the Central Authority of Executives to ensure the implementation of State security policy in ground transportation to stop the vehicle. The second aspect, which is very important, is the principle of individualization, will be violated also in the case of the adoption of the bill, and the proposed footnotes that were expressed in the second reading. Third position. There is no causal link between illegal activities in the form of refusal by drivers of transport means of authorized persons by the central executive authority to ensure the implementation of State policy. And that's when we talk about security principles on land transport. And last but not least, the absence of a causal link between the actions of the above-mentioned persons and the violations committed would violate the principle of individualization of legal responsibility. And this is part of article 61, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which a person’s legal responsibility is or is individual. And these are basic basic principles, when we take into the system, we'll see that this is a decision that needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u122	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u123	I give you the word "Alexandra Ustinovy."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u124	Alexander Ustinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I registered this decree because what you and I approved last session week is another business struggle. I want to remind you, the key thing that was not to be allowed in this bill, which was voted, is 51,000 fines for a misfilled overhead. I want to tell you that this is already a level of criminal responsibility. We've got people driving when they're in a bad condition, paying less fines than they're paying the accountant for the wrong bill. That's why I have a request. I'm going to be passing a bill that will clear this very rule that doesn't apply, and there's no relation at all to weight control. And that's why I'm asking you very much in the area of turbulence to support this bill in order to get these dragon fines out of this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u126	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Road of Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u127	Good day to you all! Mikola Road, 162th District. I will not support these decisions because we have worked long enough and hard to improve the working conditions of the monitoring bodies and to ensure the integrity of the roads we are building. Therefore, I suggest that all colleagues do not support these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u128	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to proceed to the vote. I would like to vote on the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 29.06. 2021 on the adoption, as a whole, of the Ukrainian draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of Inventory Control (Registration No. 3743-P). Please identify and vote. [[12:38:55]] For-80 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 29.06. 2021 on the adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Certain Issues of Inventory Control (Registration No. 3743-P1). Please identify and vote. [[12:39:36]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Decisions are not accepted. Let's move on to the next project. Order 2289-P. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.06. 2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals on the Importation of Pesticides into the Customs Territory of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we need a discussion, can we vote? You do, don't you? Thus, according to article 48, part nine, this issue is already being considered under a reduced procedure. And so I invite the author of this decree from the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Anatoliyovich. There is no author of the Order, so I invite the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u129	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30 June on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals on the Importation of Pesticides into the Customs Territory of Ukraine (registration number of the draft Law 2289, registration number of the draft Decree 2289-P), introduced by the People's Deputy Dubinski. As the author points out in the explanatory note to the draft, the consideration of the bill and the adoption of decisions on it were in violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. In summary, the Regulatory Committee adopted a conclusion on the draft Registration Order 2289-P and recommends that Parliament decide how to vote on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u130	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Since it was necessary to discuss this provision, please sign in: Two in a row, two in a row, against. This order, please. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u132	Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u133	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I would like to remind you once again of the main purpose of the bill, I mean not the ruling, but the basic bill that we have adopted and the decision that is now being considered in the hall. This is a unlocking of the import of samples of innovative plant protection products for scientific research and state trials for agricultural use. And I can say that, as we consider this bill on the profile committee, and when we communicate with all the professional associations, we've been asked repeatedly to support this bill as soon as possible, because it's really good for Ukrainian farmers. That is why I sincerely believe that the bill should work as quickly as possible, and I urge you not to support this decision and give life to this bill. On the other hand, I would like to refer once again to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, asking to give an urgent commission to the committee of profile to consider the registered Decree 5770 on the introduction as the main subject of the TSC's disclosure of the situation of "vagres". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u134	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Gerus Andry Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we have already voted on the bill, let's not waste time and move on to the next drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u136	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich, for your right position on the efficiency of the use of working hours of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. I see Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u137	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the latest news today, over 2,000 birds have died in Ascani-New. More than 2,000 birds in the Red Book. It's Askania Nova, colleagues! Why? Because the agronomist was carrying too many yadhochemics. Yakimiv district, Zaporez region, is a mass destruction of animals and birds. Colleagues, and this is the problem when we do not look at what the United Nations said in 2017. She said that in areas where the number of strawberries and agrochemicals is too high, people are getting sick, and health is getting worse. Colleagues, all the United States of America today show the world that in areas where there are too many of these poisons, they have been reduced in 30 years. So, let's say the threshold of those who die has decreased by 15 years, and a significant amount of onco-mediated disease. And in the United States, only 17 percent of their territory is devastated. And we have 80 colleagues. We've got monoculture, we've got too many of these testicles. We fight for profits and forget that our citizens live 10 to 15 years less than our neighbours in the United States. Do we want to follow the guidelines with you? So look what happens in Germany, in France, how they protect the environment. And we have lobbyist laws that go unthinked, without thinking that our children, the flora and the fauna in these areas, remain healthy, our health prevails. It is said that the advantage is written and proclaimed in the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u138	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u139	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, every bill that's been passed in this sessional room is subject to a draft order to make a difference. If we are. The authors say that there has been a violation of the Rules, so let us stress what a violation has been. It seems that we want to express political slogans by means of these decrees. So the MP Group for the Future understands the importance of fast adoption of social bills. We ask our colleagues not to abuse similar regulations and suggest that we proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are no more willing to speak, so let us move on to. Is that right? Please, who? Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we did not vote in favour of this shameful law. Why? Because we allowed it. You, not us, and you allowed us to bring to Ukraine what you called pesticides, that it's unknown that it's not even registered in the country of the manufacturer. After that, I spoke with many representatives of your "Serve of the People" faction. They don't even understand what they voted for. So once again, I'm stressing to you that this has to be repealed, this law should be repealed, because we're going to be carrying the unknowns under the name of pesticides. And we're turning Ukraine into a territory of trials. Besides the fact that we already have biolabs, we're going to have chemical trials. It's a shame, it can't be done. That's back-up. That law needs to be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the discussion has been concluded. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.06. 2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals on the Importation of Pesticides into the Customs Territory of Ukraine (Project No. 2289-P). Please identify and vote. [[12:49:02]] For-64
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u143	The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. The next question of the agenda is the draft Decision No. 4546-P. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. You don't? We can vote. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.06. 2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on improving the mechanisms for the withdrawal of banks from the market and meeting the requirements of creditors of these banks (registration number 4546-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[12:49:59]] For-51 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on taxation of corporate income and gambling and lottery (re-reading) (re-entry number 2713-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:50:38]] For 223 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Marusjak Oleg Romanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u144	Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor! The draft Law 2713 was aimed at re-reading to the committee and was assisted by a committee that took into account the proposals and observations made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Commission on Gambling and Lottery Regulation, and the proposals made by business representatives in the working groups. What's new in the amended bill. The rules on the cancellation of the threefold licence fee, which provides that the three payments already paid, calculated by the gambling organizers, will be counted against future annual licence payments. In order to address the problem of maintaining income tax for non-residents, it is proposed to introduce an invalidity report for tax agents by reflecting the total amount of taxed (paid) in the reporting period in the form of winnings, prizes and the total amount of taxes held by them, broken down by month. It is estimated that when taxing the winnings on casino gambling and slot machines, the cost of such a game is to be taken into account within 24 hours of winning. An assignment was made to the National Bank of Ukraine to review the land casino’s limit amounts of cash accounts with individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the adoption of this bill is extremely important. The continued existence of gambling depends on the adoption of a balanced tax burden on operators of gambling. Otherwise, the effect achieved by the adoption of the basic law can literally be reversed. Fighting the shadow market, filling the budget and protecting the population are the goals that we set for ourselves by adopting the Gambling Act. But there is an excessive tax burden.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u145	Please have a seat, please, it's time. Sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. While the discussions are under way, please contact the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for a moment. Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Dmitri Natalus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u147	Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor. It seems to me that we have already stretched the process of implementing this reform a little bit. The idea that this room has been fighting for so long for the detinction of this market, for new money, for new taxes, for the possibility of creating new jobs, for the possibility of involving new investors, for the possibility of involving new tourists -- unfortunately, this room has failed to accept the normal and adequate regulation of the tax part of the game business. Please tell me, colleagues, why did we then go all this uneasy and difficult way if we are unable to secure a vote today, and thus ensure that the money comes into the economy? Colleagues, this bill, at least in the first reading, gives us the opportunity to make new money that our nation lacks so much. This bill is about money and, above all, about money. And that's why this bill represents a tax committee. Let's do what thousands of people are waiting to do that can bring millions into the country, tens of millions of dollars and euros of investment. Let's make this market civilized. Let's finally do what we legalized the gaming business for: to get new money, new investments, new arrivals and new tourists into the country. Colleagues, I am very much asking you to support this bill and let our country finally earn money from the gaming business in the way it was intended from the very beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Stefanishin, the Voice faction. Olga Anatolyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u151	Galina Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, this bill is not the first time in the session room. And when he was sent to work, the committee promised to correct the shortcomings that were highlighted by most of our colleagues in this session room. And what do we see next? The bill further proposes that taxes be substantially reduced so that the taxation of the gaming business is fairly insignificant. If specific, there is a threefold reduction in the rate of revenue for lottery operators: from 30 per cent to 10. Almost doubles the bookies and casino tax rate, from 18 percent to 10 percent. Substantial amendments to the amended bill have never been received, and it is not possible to support this bill with certainty. I want to remind everyone that the authorities have declared high taxes on the gaming business from the very beginning so that we don't develop such a terrible disease as Ludomania and in order to minimize broad access for the population to the gaming business. And now, in fact, there's an incentive by the state of citizens to participate in gambling. I'm asking my colleagues in large numbers to make you accountable to your electorate. And if they're bringing the bill back to the committee, let's work on it in a way that they can then get support in this session room. I suggest that it be returned to the committee tomorrow and reconcile with all the factions those acceptable tax rates so that the gambling business is properly taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u153	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u154	Illegal casinos and gaming halls continue to flourish in Ukraine. The way to Europe for the "ministers of the people" goes through casino halls and slot machines, but that's not enough for them. It turns out that casinos and slots are taxed at very high rates. Turns out we need to lower the rate of taxation for casinos and casino slots. You just have to think about this cynicism of this magnitude, this president and this party of powers. It turns out that they have human diseases, and you have heard from this rostrum the terrible stories of those who were in the previous assembly of parliament, millions of people who have fallen into the traps of mania. You're instead of stopping the Moscow casino owners you've been lobbying here, and one of them is sitting directly in the President's Office, and who's in charge of regulating the casino's operations, do you want to lower their taxes yet? How much did you promise on a mountain of people in the budget? From 4 billion to 8 billion. How much did you get in that time? How much did you promise to tax the winners? The only official casino on official request said zero wins. Here's what you're doing. That's what these bills are for. You don't need a working economy at all. For you, jobs are big in the casino. That's where you call the country. Fatherland won't vote for that. And it calls out to the hall: if you think that the bell is ringing not for you and your children who will carry your money into this casino. You'll understand that very quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u155	Next up is Makarenko. After that, will someone be motivated to insist? Goncharenko. Everything? Turn the pasta on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u157	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u158	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, do you see what we've come back to? We put the joker back six months ago in this deck of maps of our relationships in society -- in the game business. And we see today that they are essentially dominating in power. This is what they are introducing today, a bill that envisions a reduction in tax pressure. What's this all about? And why is it spoken at a time when there is not a single pair out of the mouth regarding the military congregations of all the citizens of Ukraine who are half a percent! What are we talking about? We're increasing the number of armies -- and we're taking on the health of the nation. Where, then, do we see where fiscal authorities work, where tax authorities work? What's not clear? What if we heard about tax declarations today are promising, so to speak, three-year-olds, 10 percent of us on the border tax will be taking and 10 percent will be taking the fiscals. What do we know? Where is the game business? We've created a feed for people who have no more survival, but an effort to get rich, that's the problem. And so voting for this bill is criminal, firstly, immorally, secondly, and thirdly, it contradicts our national values, the protection of the foundations of a healthy society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u159	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u160	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. You know, the random color of the zero cell on the roulette is green, the grain is green. And that, I think, is completely random. Look, please, my friends, we've been promised to adopt the law, legalize gambling, we'll live, 7.5 billion will come into the state budget. How many billion have come? Zero, Zero. Funny figures came in terms of what we were promised. Funny numbers. And what they're offering us today, friends, is that I won the lottery and the casinos up to 48,000 dollars without paying the taxes at all. So a person, a pensioner, pays, a person who works, pays from the first bracelet, and whoever comes to the casino doesn't, friends, 48,000 dollars won't be the first to tax. Instead of making it really the way they said it would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u161	Have a seat, please. Have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on taxation of corporate income and gambling and lottery (registration number 2713-d). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:04:42]] For 252 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (Registration No. 3476). The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Hrovat Robert Ivanovich, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? A speedboat? Amendment number one. It's a speed bump.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u162	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u163	Wait. I understand that no one insists. You're asking for confirmation, right? Okay. Amendment number one. It's a speed bump.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the paperwork I'm on right now. Now that I'm asking for confirmation, that's a great example of when "without a moose, life is bad" and when between the first and second readings, electric transport is changed to environmental transport. In some ways, we have a gas transport that is environmentally friendly, and we also release it from taxation. We all know that no gas transport is environmentally friendly. And these changes are violations of conventions that have been ratified by Ukraine, and all of us have made commitments, Ukraine has committed itself to reducing the use of gas. And today, between the first and the second readings, they're trying to get it back, push it back, and create conditions, not for the development of electricity, but for the development of gas transport. I'm asking for an amendment not to support it or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u165	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u166	Let's go to the vote. Amendment number one. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:07:18]] For-286 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Next line number 4. Partially counted. It's a speed bump.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u167	My colleagues may have heard wrong, but I'm going to repeat that between the first and second reading, electric transport has been replaced by environmental transport. And environmentalally, gas transport, which works on gas, which is in no way ecological in all of the world, is being rejected by the whole world. But of course, Ukraine is a banana republic, and you and I all know that because this is where money solves everything. And the gas lobbying is on the Level God. Do you understand? So, dear fellows, I ask you once again to turn on the rest of your brain and not to support the adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u168	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u169	Dear Anna Constantinen, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, so, yes, in two words, I'll probably answer the whole line on methane. Savings on fuel for carriers and utilities by 40 percent compared to diesel or petrol fuels, and by 10 percent compared to propane. 70 percent of the methane gas consumed in Ukraine is a gas of its own. Instead, Ukraine depends 60 percent on gasoline imports and 80 percent on propane imports, 90 percent on diesel imports. Confirmed natural gas reserves in Ukraine amount to more than 500 billion cubic metres. Ukraine has an infrastructure for filling stations, about 100 kilometers from each other, and all of you can recharge. Dear colleagues, the title of the bill has changed in connection with the methane bill, but everything related to electric transport has remained except for the buses. Let me explain why. It's mirrored.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u170	Thank you. I'll bet you vote number four. The committee is partially accounted for. It's a confirmation in the same line that's been taken into account by the committee. Please support and vote. [[13:09:57]] For 308. Decision taken. Edit included. Next line 20, Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u171	Of course, we started with an electric transport where you can't "tir" money, and you can't "tir" money on gas at the gas station, of course. So that's the logic of iron, the logic of calling this Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, here we are told that almost all the electricity remains. But the amendment that I'm asking you to make for confirmation, on the other hand, has thrown out a number of electric transports that Ukraine needs: almost all tractors, electric buses, special technicians, including utility, and self-consumptions, some of which, tractors, electric buses, special technicians, are used in cities. So I'm asking you, if you really want to leave the electric transport and really leave the benefits for the electric transport, this is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u172	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on the approval number 20. The committee is accounted for. Please support and vote. [[13:11:16]] For 293 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 22 revisions. Partially counted. It's a speed bump.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u173	The only thing I don't understand is if we support electric transport, why would you exclude a number of electric transports from the means that we simplify with respect to taxation? If you support it, you need to include all the electricity in this list instead of throwing it away. There's no logic. So let's return all the electricity that was projected in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u174	I'll bet 22 votes. Partially counted. It's on the committee's agenda. Please support and vote. [[13:12:17]] For 305 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Next line is 33rd, Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u175	Once again, I will reiterate to my distinguished colleagues that we are in breach of the commitments made under the Kyoto Protocol, which was ratified by the Supreme Council, where we have committed ourselves to reducing the use of gas. By the way, if we were told that we have gas of our own production, why isn't it sold to the population at the price of this production, with normal profitability? And so, so by giving benefits to gas transport, we're increasing our dependence on the Russian Federation, where we're buying the same gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u176	I'm betting on the 33rd vote, it's counted by the committee, it's confirmed. Please support and vote. [[13:13:34]] For-300 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. And the extreme correction that Anna Konstantinovna insists on is 37 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u177	I'm just going to repeat again, my dear colleagues, that between the first and second readings, the bill was not about electricity and not electricity, but it became about electricity and gas. In addition, these standards, which applied to the extended number of electric vehicles, have been narrowed down considerably. So it's up to you. Thank you. I will not insist on the second law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u178	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 37, it's counted by the committee, it's confirmed. Please support and vote. [[13:14:35]] For 306 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. I'm betting on voting the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and certain legislative acts of Ukraine to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (registration No. 3476). Please support and vote. [[13:15:15]] For 315 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (registration number 3477). The robert Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, is invited to the rostrum. Is there anyone here who'll insist on counting? Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, right number? Number line?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u179	Edits 2 and 6. I'm not going to insist on the vote, I'm going to do one minute for two revisions -- that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u180	You have one minute, and it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u181	Can I come in?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u182	Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! This is a very important bill that I call on everyone to support, and that's why. Because for the first time, we're moving from stimulating imports to stimulating production in Ukraine. And if we've looked at electricity before just like an electric car, because of the regulations that I've made and a number of other national deputies, we're now looking at electricity as urban electric transport. In Ukraine, the industry of trolleybuses, trams, electric buses, and if we support these manufacturers, we will create a real opportunity for them to develop, and we will allow Ukrainian citizens to have jobs in their country, not to go to Poland to produce similar goods. So I urge everyone to support this bill, let's press the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Anna Constantine's Speedboat. Don't insist. We can put it to a vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (registration number 3477). Please support and vote. [[1:17:41]] For 317 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Thank you. Please sit down, Robert Ivanovich. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Implementing Conduct" to create conditions for the implementation of settlement agreements (peace agreements) concluded between a foreign entity and the State of Ukraine. Fries Igor Pavlovich is invited to the rostrum. Is someone going to insist on the papers? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement on the creation of conditions for the implementation of settlement agreements (peace agreements) concluded between a foreign entity and the State of Ukraine (registration No. 5267). Please support and vote. [[13:18:49]] For 294 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (0104). Needed to Be Discussed? Can we get out of the procedure? Do you mind? Then from the procedure, and we move on to the vote. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, in no way, as they say, out of value, it's not related, I mean, why do I always pay attention to such ratifications? Because we are always loved and told about what is growing by the State, which is guaranteed by the State of Debt. Almost $10 billion has already been raised during this period. Today, the budget gave a declaration, a forecast of up to $107 billion in debt. And it turns out that where these costs come from, and what they do is they're digging up money all the time, including projects. The same agreement that you want to ratify takes an additional 300 million-euro loan to finance measures aimed at improving the modernization process, and beyond. Of course, the idea is good, I'm even willing to support the modernization, energy efficiency measures, energy saving schools, other health institutions, etc., but we always have to focus on the fact that this is a loan, a loan that will be returned by taxpayers in the nearest medium term. So it's important that people always know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u186	Can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one faction asked for it from the procedure. Well, everybody. Well, colleagues, we agreed, look, everyone said it was just a faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then let's ask the question. Well, if you don't keep your word, no. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:21:02]] For 252 It is a pleasure to work with people who are responsible for what they say. Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories, Ivan Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u187	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! Today you have a draft Law (0104) on the ratification of the Financial Agreement with the European Investment Bank. The agreement provides for the involvement of a financial resource for local self-government authorities of 300 million dollars for thermomodernization and energy efficiency. It is anticipated that the deal will result in energy efficiency, thermomodernization of about a thousand public buildings, the costs will be focused on thermomodernization, energy efficiency in schools, gardens, preschools, administrative services centres and other public buildings. Help will be given to the authorities of local self - government. The agreement is convenient enough for local authorities, since it provides for a repayment period of 20 years. For the first five years, it's a debt period, which means the percentage doesn't pay. The further interest rate is about two percent, but this will be compensated by the economy that will be after the energy efficiency measures. Taking into account the importance of this agreement, please support the draft Ukrainian Law (0104) on the ratification of the Financial Agreement. This is a vital resource for local governments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u188	The word is given to the head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u189	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, our Committee on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union discussed at its meeting on 7 July 2021 the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (The Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings in Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Ratification and validity will create the legal basis for the possible inclusion of credit resources totalling up to 300 million euros. And these funds involved should be geared towards improving the process of thermomodernization of about a thousand public buildings in Ukraine, including pre-school and secondary educational institutions, health facilities, and social, administrative and cultural facilities, which are located in state and/or municipal property. The repayment of the loan is to be made entirely at the expense of the final beneficiaries of local self - government. And the terms of credit that are set out in accordance with the Financial Agreement: interest rate, fixed rate or floating rate -- maximum maturity period of 5 years, maturity period, including maturity period, 20 years, repayment terms -- half-yearly equal portions of the principal amount of credit or fixed portions of the principal amount and interest. According to the Supreme Council Committee's opinion on budgetary issues, the proposed bill will have an impact on the state budget indicators, leading mainly to an increase in government borrowings and expenditure on the implementation of the project under the State Budget special fund by 2022. In conclusion, the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the EU recommended that the Supreme Council ratify this agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. This decision of the committee is in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u190	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u191	Subsequent, good initiatives from the Ministry of Regional Development please support. So let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u192	Thank you. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u193	Please pass the word to John Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u194	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u195	Thank you. Our faction will certainly support this loan agreement, understanding the tax rates, the possibilities for our local self-government authorities, for the vital initiatives that relate to energy efficiency. At the same time, colleagues, we asked for a word from the procedure precisely because I would like to be the head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to draw everyone's attention to the European Union, I would stress that all the ministries and government of Ukraine are coming from the Office of the President of Ukraine in such a form as to force us to convert these documents and transfer these documents to the Supreme Council. I am here now to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to all the ministries and departments that sign credit agreements with the European Investment Bank, that this practice should finally be stopped. And I hope that all the following documents will be submitted to the Supreme Council properly drafted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u196	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u197	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, very brief. I've already started partially anouncing this draft regulation, more specifically, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement. Well, look, when you're told, macro-financial assistance, something else, well, it's actually all extra credit, and it's all pouring out into specific numbers. 81.9 billion dollars when we came in. Now it's $91.5 billion in debt. These numbers don't come from anywhere, they come from these positions, including. Yes, of course, there are bonds of domestic government loans and so on, but these are additional debts. In 20 years, someone will give them away. I'm not opposed to the concept of energy efficiency, modernization, and I'm even willing to support these projects to be implemented at the local level. But when these draft laws are being voted on, please let's get a financial and economic justification, who's at the local level, at which cost will be paid in 20 years' time. Because today it's 91.5 billion, and it's planned by the year 2024 after today's Budget Declaration, it's going to be 47.6 percent of GDP, which is roughly 107 billion dollars. So another plus 16 billion dollars they're planning to borrow over these two or three years. So if any of you, please think about, first of all, the representatives of power and the committees of profile, when you're introducing such draft laws, please give me the documents, who, when they come back. And you like to tell them that you destroyed them in 28 years. Yes, even your predecessors took, they had a holding at the beginning of the 14th year of 73 billion dollars. They gave you 82. Plus nine in five years. You have plus 10 for 2. Think about these numbers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u198	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Who else is there? I see Lozinski and Kucherenko. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u199	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote and support this bill. We see that the legislative initiative is absolutely right. We support the inclusion of additional funds for the development of OTG. And from an economic point of view, by appealing to the previous speaker, this is the economic benefit, because we're getting money for thermo-modernization. The more and better we do thermo-modernization, the less they pay OTG for the heat. So OTG starts to develop and save. At the same time, when speaking to a representative of the Ministry of Community Development, the deputy minister (representative, I refer to you), the reform of decentralization gave priority to large OTGs. I'm paying attention to you as a majorityist representing the rural area, that when you see the distribution of funds under the cooperation program with the European Investment Bank, you'll see that a huge proportion of the OTGs, the cities, are getting a huge share. That's why we're calling your attention and asking you to look first at projects that are being submitted by rural and rural communities, because they have much less money, they can't spend a lot of money on project-based documentation. And that's the kind of program that should support them. So thank you very much for this initiative. And I ask Parliament to vote and support the development of our communities, our OTG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u200	Thank you. The word is given to Lozin Roman Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u201	Roman Lozinski. Dear colleagues, with regard to ratification, clearly needs to be supported. It'll give you a boost, it'll give you an extra resource and opportunity. But I'd like to pay attention to something else. In Ukraine, there is now a real crisis in the housing and utility market. And if we look at what's going on with the housing fund and see how many hundreds of billions of dollars are needed right now for its upgrade, no ratification is going to save the situation. Remember the New Section, mention Novoyavorysk in Lviv: Today they have no warm water. And this autumn is already going to be the fourth heating season, when they have a very high risk of another burst in the heating season. That's why I'm calling on a colleague from power, except ratifications, except for the help of international partners, except for international funds, to remember my work. And regions like Lvivščina, such as the New Section and Novoyavorysk, cannot be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u202	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kucherenk Aleksija Yuriovich. Then there's the Bakunec, and we're going to the vote, your honorary colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u203	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we will support this ratification. But I fully support my colleague Koltunović: this is the 300 million euro line of credit, the loans have to be paid. And show me the verification system for these projects. Show me the guarantees of someone who will lend what he will give. Because energy efficiency loans have to be paid off, not from the budget, but from the savings. And that's why there's a huge problem. I pay your attention, in the country, apart from the public buildings, 200,000 multi-story buildings where our people live. Show me how the state is going to modernize this apartment. Why doesn't the head of the State Energy Agency still exist? One and a half years of temporary service. A host of organizational issues that, unfortunately, will lead to the default of the loan. This is the result of a free policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u204	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u205	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished deputy minister, distinguished national MPs! We certainly thank you for this good initiative, it's a foreign investment, but it's a low interest loan that will pay off many, many years after that. And today, this is a real step towards helping the new communities, so we definitely need to support this initiative in the hall. We thank the Ministry for it. And I want you all to show how you're taking steps towards the development of these new societies and to complete this process of decentralization. Thank you. Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u206	All those who wish to speak? Can we get to the vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0104). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:34:59]] For 335 Decision taken. Ratification accepted as a whole. Dear colleagues, the procedure is Tretyakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u207	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, thank you, distinguished national deputies. There is a procedure to change the procedure for reviewing drafts and to consider for the time being 4,113, 3780 and 4539 for second reading without discussion, if you please, factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I take it, the factions have agreed that these bills can be voted on, no one will insist. Right? That's right. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of social guarantees for persons with disabilities and children with disabilities (registration No. 4113). Please support and vote. [[13:36:12]] For 341 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection of persons with disabilities (registration No. 3780). Please support and vote. [[13:36:46]] For 340. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on granting benefits to certain categories of Ukrainian citizens seeking consular action (registration number 4539). Please support and vote. [[13:37:23]] For 347 Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Law on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (Registration No. 4303). On the rostrum is invited the deputy head of the Committee on Digital Transformation of Montenegro Volodymyrovich. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Nicolanca. Which one? One amendment-- and we can vote. Please turn on Nickelenko's microphone. Don't split up, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u209	Good afternoon, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u210	The number of the amendment, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u211	Amendment 181. Nicolanca, Fatherland. As long as we're here in the hall, the Apostolics, who are willing to organize this law to someone else, are likely to make it work differently, would like them not to be in another state, they're breaking their laptops before the Supreme Council, protesting against the forms of organization of their activities that are being proposed. Especially on the right. As I was speaking in the first reading, I said that the farm should be a voluntary matter. So my right is to adopt chapter IV of this law and not to force a self-governance organization (the word "self-governing"), all those who agree to be residents of the City Act. This should be their right, not their obligation, because the organization is self - control. So please delete chapter IV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u212	I'll bet you 181 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:11]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting for a second-reading proposal and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (Registration No. 4303). Please support and vote. [[13:39:44]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next question of the agenda. - is a draft of the Act amending article 21 of the Law on Medical Devices concerning the Prohibition of the Sale of Medical Devices to Children (registration number 5122). The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Kuzminy Sergey Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum. Please. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? Oh, no? I'm voting for a second reading proposal and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices prohibiting the sale of medical supplies to children. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:40:55]] For 341 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Law on Protection of Social Morality to clarify certain provisions regarding the protection of minors from the negative impact of sexual or erotic production (registration number 5330, 5330-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:41:38]] For 249 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Klimenko, Julia Leonidivna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, I won't take up much of your time. The law is very simple. The Law amends the existing Law on Social Morality. We all remember the story when the parents of a 7-year-old or an 8-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy took pictures of the kids in, mildly speaking, rude clothes and then put it on Instagram, and everybody made money on it. So it turns out that in our current legislation there are sanctions for the parents of underage children, but there are no sanctions for underage children, those who actually use their children for either enrichment or some other, let's say, goals. Therefore, my law and my actual correction are very simple: I am adding to the Law on the Social Morality of Young Children, that is, it will be the responsibility of parents not only for young children but for young children (it will be up to 14 years of age). I represent my law, it's an alternative. I think my law is more comprehensive, because "youth" is also a terminology in the Criminal Code, in the Administrative. I mean, if you and I adopt the notion of "young people," automatically people who use children for their purposes, underage children, will be punished according to the current legislation in the Criminal Code and the Administrative Code, while the alternative bill does not provide for it. So please support my bill, although the committee recommended another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u214	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Ryabusi Tetjani Vasilovni, author of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat Mrs. Julia at this time, and yet the name of the distinction between my, alternative, bill. So what I'm proposing is my alternative bill. Eliminate the gap in legislation and provide for the protection of children regardless of their age, whether they are underage or underage, precisely from the negative impact of sexual or erotic production. The bill also prohibits the creation and distribution of photos and (or) videos of sexual or erotic images of children. Again, to clarify the list of schools nearby which are prohibited from placing places for advertising, distribution of products, and the conduct of spectacular sexual or erotic measures. I would also like to point out that the bill in question, which initiates appropriate changes, is the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. So please support Bill 5330-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u216	Thank you, Aunt Vasilyvna. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, National Deputy of Ukraine Eugenia Mikhailna Kravczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy discussed Bills 5330 and 5330-1 at its meeting on May 25 of this year. As has already been said, the bill proposes to amend the Law on the Protection of Social Morality in order to address the issue of child protection regardless of age from the effects of the effects of the erotic or sexual nature of production or information. It is a ban on sexual or erotic activity, pornographic material, and the provision of services for young children between 14 and 18 years of age. The committee certainly supports the idea of bills aimed at protecting children regardless of their age. At the same time, it agrees with the position of the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy, as well as with other interested parties, that the bill under registration number 5330-1 applies a more complex approach to resolving the issue, since it also prohibits the creation and distribution of photos and (or) videos of sexual or erotic images of children corresponding to the conclusion of the Lansarot Committee. The main scientific and expert office also concluded that the use of the term “child” used in Bill 5330-1 seems more constructive because it covers both minors and minors. Thus, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 5330-1 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I would ask you to sign up for two, two, against, to discuss these bills. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u219	Thank you. Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u220	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u221	Thank you. The committee supported Bill 5330 of Ryabucha, and the faction also supports it, and we have no special comment on the bill. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that changes to the Social Moral Protection Act are largely declarative because specific administrative or criminal offences for such activities are provided for by the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Violations. At the same time, this will indeed legally strengthen the state's position on the inadmissibility of the use of children, including minors, in sexual production. That's why the faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u222	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Ivanovich Rušišina, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u223	Please give Klimenko to Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u224	Julia Klimenko, please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u225	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Once again, maybe I want to tell my colleagues that, at this point in time, despite the fact that it's a declarant law about social morality, but the situation where parents deprave and use children for 8-13 years is not actually punishable. So these laws, both mine and the alternative, they have to root it out and add it to, let's say, regulation and to a clear definition that children should be protected, at least, by parents, not only by minors, but also by minors, up to 14 years old. Because at this point in law it's not defined, and in fact the parents who used their children, as we all know and saw the photos of 8-13-year-old children, are not going to be punished for it right now. So, colleagues, I urge you to vote for this, but the Law on Social Morality, it is though declarant, but it provides the basis for bringing such parents, unscrupulous parents, on the basis of the Criminal and Administrative Codes to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u226	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u227	Honorable colleagues, a venerable presidency, both laws deserve attention, as they decide a certain conflict that is in law and allow for the protection of the rights of the child. At the same time, both the committee and the opposition platform for life will support the alternative law "tier one," and we hope that its approval will allow, regardless of age, to protect the child. But the more important question is: Who will implement this law? Unfortunately, in recent years the State and the Cabinet of Ministers have made great efforts to destroy, destroy, and protect the basic level of organs and services involved in the protection, security, and protection of the rights of the child. Yes, in its time, there has been an eliminated, transformed criminal police on children’s affairs into a juvenile prevention, where about a thousand workers remain who are unable to carry out their duties professionally to protect their children. Now, at this point, the services for children are being eliminated both at the district and at the level of the united territorial communities, which are not sufficiently provided by the regulatory framework. Instead, there is some pseudo-pseuding structure called the National Social Service, which, instead of protecting and helping children, will control and test different forms of family education and actually intervene in the family instead of providing help. Therefore, I think it is more important today to put before tomorrow, perhaps the appointed new minister of internal affairs to create an active body that protects children and responds to the implementation of this law in the Ministry of Internal Affairs structure, and to stop the vacchanal that the Ministry of Social Policy and the entire government are doing to destroy services and organs that are obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u228	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u229	Please pass the word "Constankevitch" to Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u230	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think we should thank the authors of both bills for violating a very important problem, which is the moral health of children. And we, as major national MPs, know best that this is just the tip of the iceberg. In fact, the problem of children’s moral health is complex and does not resolve fully how it should be. We believe that there should be effective mechanisms to protect children’s rights and to protect children as a whole in part of their moral health, because we talk a lot about physical health, we talk a lot about psychological issues, and we have a lot of morals left to do. [[Unheard]] So the Future Group supports an alternative bill because it's more complex and it's more literate about legal terminology. But we believe and insist that the government must make every effort to protect children's rights with effective mechanisms and effective resources must be rid of declarativeism. So we urge the government to get rid of declarativeity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u232	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Protection of Social Morality on clarifying certain provisions regarding the protection of minors from the negative impact of sexual or erotic production (registration number 5330-1) Ready to vote? Anatoly Igorovich, did you lose something? Ready? You're ready, aren't you? Please support and vote. [[13:55.]] For 343 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the day’s agenda is the draft Water Uses Act and the Promotion of Hydrotechnical Land Melioration (Registration No. 5202). It is suggested that we consider this issue by means of an accelerated procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:55:36]] For 230 Decision taken. The chairman of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u233	I see that there are emotions in the hall and discussions on this law. Let's see what the situation is. We had 2 million 300,000 acres [300,000 ha] of land under the water, and only 500,000 were saved. For 20 years, nothing changes. If we don't adopt this law, this problem will only get bigger. There's never going to be a single water company that has the cost of repairing the entire system. This law provides for extreme infrastructure, the possibility of ownership for water users. Water users' organizations are those water users who get water from pumping taps. A double quorum, so that those who have many lands do not abuse those who have little. What does it mean? Which is the first time that the number of land is voted on, the second, one, one, one vote. Or 10,000 hectares, or 0.1 hundreds. This is the second time we've considered this bill in the hall. No other alternative from critics of this bill in the last 15 years, except for yours, we've considered it on the committee and agreed to consider it as a second reading. No question raised. The situation is getting worse year after year. Part of the suggestions were included in the second reading. before the first reading of the repetitive, which was considered by the committee. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u234	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u235	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u236	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, I really urge you to uphold this law. And once again, I'm going to repeat for those colleagues who may not fully understand what this law is about. I've talked about this last time, but it's just important that people on their fingers understand what this is about. The law that users, water users, have the right to solve their own problems. And there's an alternative here for Jacks and OSBBs. We used to have JECKs when people who own apartments didn't really decide the fate of their own home, but they decided by some CHEK who had a lot of motivation, and it's not clear how he made decisions about what money to put in the building, the elevators, and so on and so forth. Then, when FSBs began to develop, the situation in the buildings where they were created improved considerably. Why? Because the people who live there themselves began to decide their fate. Same here, so we're trying to give real water users the right to solve their own problems, so it's not some state that doesn't understand the principles that investors make on repairs and so on. The users themselves have to solve their problems. And that's the law on that. And so, by the way, it works in most of the developed countries of the world. So, colleagues, I call for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u238	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u239	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u240	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u241	Honorary colleagues, the main point of this law, are that the objects of a meliorate network that are owned or owned by the state and municipal authorities are provided free of charge by water users. Therefore, this transfer to ownership is derived from the Act on the Management of Objects of State Property, but is not proposed separately. And that actually creates legal uncertainty. The position of the project does not primarily correspond to the interests of the community, the reform of decentralization and the public position, since it essentially deprives the public of the right to own property, including income. Free transmission of a meliorate network that refers to the state and municipal property of the KLA, which is not a legal person of public law, is a form of removal of state and community property. However, the project does not indicate the cost of the basic funds that will be removed from the state and from the community. The registration of landless objects in a meliorrhial network does not require any evidence that such objects are actually without ownership. As a result, the illegal deprivation of ownership of legal owners of property may result. There are many, unfortunately, terminology inaccuracies that conflict with, inter alia, the Water Code. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on State Aid to Hosting Subjects, the Antimonopoly Committee is an authorized body in the field of the determination of the eligibility and eligibility of State aid in accordance with Ukraine's obligations under the Association Agreement with the European Union. So in order to determine the admissibility of State aid for competition, it would be appropriate when we vote for it, to at least get the conclusion of the Antimonopoly Committee. With these observations taken into account, our faction will be held in the voting for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u242	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u243	Thank you, Mr. Head. I can't believe we're in this room looking at a draft law on the modernization of the water-meliority sub-complex system. And, of course, we all know that dynamic, partly the head of the committee has already called a figure that's shrinking every year to the surface of the field, or, more specifically, irrigation. And from this point of view, in drought conditions, this is certainly the highest and most important problem. It's also a question of food security, it's also a question of increasing revenue from agricultural exports, and so on. In theory, it's all the right thing to do, and yet in practice, similar steps to modernize hydrotechnological facilities in drying and irrigation areas are needed primarily, these processes, economic methods of state regulation in the process of modernizing the relevant issue. For example, when we speak. and there should be specific tools, such as: (a) loaning percentages from the projects concerned; or another important point: amending tax and customs legislation to implement precisely innovative projects or energy-saving projects and introducing appropriate technologies; or if the introduction of high-tech equipment. This is a whole set of measures that, according to an analysis of even the countries of the European Union, works and implements appropriate policies and contributes to the development of agriculture in these countries. Today, these are the basics of this bill. My colleague Tetjana Plačkowa and I have registered Bill 3852, where we have actually formed and proposed an institutional environment to further implement all those tools and steps, economics first and foremost, that will allow for the modernization of the water supply sub-complex system in Ukraine. And this bill is definitely not going to be supported because we have our own, and we're willing to propose it as one that will produce a result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u244	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, a very good and important initiative. I propose that everyone be supported and put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u246	Again, again, have you made a statement? Thank you for the constructive, concise report. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, a minute of motive. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u247	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues, melioration are channels, they're inter-hospitals, in-houses, and pump stations. Today, we are transferring private property to the pool of water users. Okay? If it were a cooperative, one member is one vote. Now the committee head is telling you the formula, but he said that the first voting formula would be on the ground: whoever has more land, that would include this water. Colleagues, strictly lobbyist law, which we have sent to read again today because of this norm. There's got to be one member in the cooperative, one vote. To ensure that both small and medium and large have equal access to the earth. There, colleagues, banditry. There, I'm sorry, people are being killed for not allowing access to water today. Let's do it honestly, and let's do it for the benefit of the state and the farmers, not lobbying. We reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u248	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. Let's go to the vote. You've already been approached by a colleague of the Road Mikolajovich, correct? Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Water User Organization Act and the promotion of hydrotechnical land melioration (Registration No. 5202). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:06:38]] For 196 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of the draft Law registration number 5202. Please support and vote. [[14:07:10]] For 237 Decision taken. Come here, Auntie Mikhailno, explain what you wanted. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction into the market of natural gas of accounting and calculation by volume of gas in energy units (registration number 25.). No, no, no, no, no, no, We've come to the question. Is anyone insisting on the papers? Dear colleagues, the committee is calling for this bill to be re-readed. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. But first I'm putting the committee's decision on the table, so I understand we're not going to back him up. Right? And after that, I'm betting on reprocessing. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction into the market of natural gas accounting and accounting for gas in energy units (Registration No. 2553). Please vote. [[2:08:53]] For-43 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a second reading of Bill No. 2553. Please support and vote. [[14:09:25]] For 321 Decision taken. And the Mayor's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u249	Mr. Chairman, it is a very big request to change the order of the day and to proceed to the consideration of Bill 3790. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u250	Thank you. See the Bill of Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on transparency in manufacturing (Registration No. 3790). I'm putting the motion to a vote. You may or may not support. I would like to vote on the proposal of the Jurassic to change the turn of the debate at this plenary session in order to move now to the consideration of Bill No. 3790. Please support and vote. [[14:10:33]] For 236 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:10:56]] For 234 The decision is not. Decision taken. I'm sorry. The head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, Zupánin Andri Viktorovich, is invited to attend. And give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u251	Good afternoon, colleagues! In 2013, Ukraine joined the International Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, called IPRH. In order to implement the requirements of the Transparency Initiative in Ukraine's national legislation on September 18, 18th, the Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Law on Transparency in Extractive Industries, under the heading 2545-VIII. But since the adoption of this law in 2019, the international government of IPRH has approved an updated standard that changes the amount of information to be made available to companies operating in manufacturing industries. In this context, with the aim of improving the rules of Law 2545-VIII as a result of its practical application and the introduction of new requirements of the Transparency Initiative in the extractive industries, I and other national deputies have prepared a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on transparency in manufacturing, registered under number 3790, since 3 July 2020. The bill is the first to specify the order and amount of information to be disclosed. Second: a report is introduced, including payments for carbon dioxide emissions. Third, information on the average number of employees should be provided to determine the number of employees per article. Fourth: Gender quotas are defined in the formation of a multi-party group to implement an international standard. The bill also improves the terminology applied in Law 2545, refines the practice of implementing IPRs and listings; refines the procedure for the selection and authorization of an independent administrator; and regulates the responsibility of companies operating in manufacturing industries to provide unreliable information. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services, at its meeting on 29 October 2020, reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on transparency in mining. In discussing the bill, members of the committee made a number of comments and suggestions, noting that they could be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure transparency in the first-reading industries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u252	Please sign up for factions: two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u253	The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, miss the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u254	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, European Solidarity. The European Solidarity Party will support me, I co-sponsor this bill. But I want to point out to the colleagues on the committee that we still need to have both the Energy Community and the European Commission to see whether there are warnings or not. So as I go back to transparency in extractive fields, transparency in energy as a whole, I want to talk to my colleagues about transparency. A fellow member of our committee recently created a temporary commission of inquiry, where he wanted to show the whole Parliament why the Ukrainian mines were corrupt. As early as June 16, transparency was to be raised here in the hall, in the walls of this Parliament. Unfortunately, this TSC has not reported in a month. It does not report for one simple reason: there is nothing to report. For two years now, the government, which has not invested in the budget for the modernization of mines, in order to cover the cost of carbon-alcohol-alcoholic products, has accordingly transferred from one article to another and has no support, and this is the whole reason for carbon-carbon-economy damage. So, colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill. It is also important to keep in mind and report on transparency that they have been able to determine in the TSC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u255	Thank you. The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group, Party for the Future, welcomes the introduction to the session room of this important bill. How do you know that in 2013 Ukraine joined the International Extractive Sector Transparency Initiative, and we have to implement it accordingly in our legislation. The absolute benefit of this international initiative is that it envisions the publication of government contracts with mining companies, and we know that these texts are actually approved in 52 countries around the world. Countries such as Britain, Germany, and in part the United States are fully lit out of these agreements. Apparently, Ukraine's backing up here. So actually this bill predicts that we're going to have more open mining companies. In fact, we will facilitate the mandatory publication of copies of contracts, contracts for the use of the nadrama that have been made since January 1st of this year, and any changes to these agreements. And so do we. We urge, despite the positive innovation in this bill, to develop it for second reading, to take into account the well-founded comments contained in GNEU, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the ministries. In particular, we think it is appropriate to review the excessive role of the Energy Minister in the work of this multi-party group of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and that it is not entirely appropriate to reinforce the role of the Energy Minister. Thank you. Our parliamentary group will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u257	Please, National Deputy Rudik Kira Alexandrovna, faction of the Voice political party. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u258	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Colleagues, of course, must go to the maximum transparency and accountability of all the subjects in the fossil market, from the state to all companies, regardless of their forms of ownership. And that's the goal of this law, which is actually trying to bring Ukrainian legislation in line with the standards of the Extractive Sector Transparency Initiative. The implementation of such a standard is very important in order to achieve equal access to information by all steakholders, starting with companies working in the market, to the state, and most importantly, to the public. This is essential in order to overcome the asymmetry of information among companies involved in exploration, mining, or export of useful fossils. And it's also very important for the public, because they can get information about beneficiaries participating in manufacturing tenders, or they've made contracts, or they've got licenses. It is also important to note that the harmonisation of Ukrainian legislation in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative will allow Ukraine to implement the promises it has made to international partners before Ukrainian society in the implementation of the Green Course, as the standard of the initiative foresees that signatory countries will open up and give the public an analysis of how certain or other actions on the market in the mining sector affect the environment. And since Ukraine has declared that it is joining the Green Deal, obviously we have to do everything we can to have the widest possible information to achieve the objectives of climate neutrality. So the Voice party will support this bill in the first reading with further elaboration of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u259	The word is given by Coltunovich Alexandro Sergiyevich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u260	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'm drawing your attention, and I'd like to mark the gender quotas separately in the extractive sector. It's probably a norm that's spoken out of the mouth of a committee representative for people who have a bearing on this area, and frankly it sounds very strange, and actually my colleagues asked me to pay attention to it. This time. The second moment, very important, is about the indicators that today characterize, particularly the coal sector. We have representatives of factions, such as Deputy Moroz, who have mines in the district that are now heavily indebted to pay their wages. When we talk about all of these things, they have to have practical implementation, for example, if we're implementing this bill, it's going to solve a number of things, for example, by modernizing or implementing investment programs on mines, once; the second, by reducing debt on wages; the third, by increasing production, if we're talking about coal industry, by increasing coal production. Because last year we had 7.7 percent decrease in coal production to 28.8 million tons. So from this point of view, we insist that when you work on it between the first and the second readings, you have an application concept and we have already seen the figures directly to which this normative act will be implemented. That's the first one. And the second important point that I would also like to draw attention to is that it's enough to pretend that there's no rising prices on utility bills, enough to look at and show that there's no rise in gas prices, electricity tariffs, utility prices. I brought you the figures yesterday that if we compared May 2021 to May 2019, the cost of utilities increased by 2.1. From this point of view, what Ukrainian citizens demand is that they implement what they do under the law, not create transparency, and then form that tariff policy that takes the last money out of their pockets. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u261	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u262	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Respectful colleagues certainly need to move on to the electronic distribution of documents. But please tell me, when there is no 90 percent Internet in the villages today, when people in cities are suffering without internet in Ukraine? We live in the 21st century, not in the age of stone. When, though, will politicians and officials look into this troubled situation? This law will not result in more food in the refrigerator and will not raise wages from these laws. Thank God, there's good news that miners have to get a salary this year before the miner's Day. You got it! The year they knocked, they still knocked! And the last. Please tell me, when will the development of the coal sector, instead of destroying it, be mindful? We can vote on an electronic report for at least a thousand such laws, but there will be no modernization of mines -- and billions of dollars have gone down like water into the country's sand. Who will report, who will control, and who will be today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken out. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u264	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on transparency in manufacturing (registration No. 3790). Ready to vote? I'd like you to support that. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:24:48]] For the 250. Decision taken. Babak is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, please change the order of your consideration and consider ratification 0107, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal has come to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the Renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation (Registration No. 0107). Is there no objection? None. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the European Union on the renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation (registration No. 0107). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:57]] For 333 Decision taken. Kid, out of procedure. You don't? [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't know what you're yelling at, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u267	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Please consider the renaming decrees: No. 5078, the village of Hymchin in the Kosovo region; 5082, the renaming of the village of Kydanzi; and 5570. Without discussion, we have a general position. [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed not to discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u268	No discussion? Dear Sir, you are once. Number 5078, 5082, 5570. Is there no objection? Okay, thanks. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order to rename the village of Golobordík of the Lubensky region of Poltava. Please support and vote. 5570. [[14:27:56]] For the 320. Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order renaming the village of Kydanzi in the region of Johno-Frankow. Please support and vote to the Kydanians, 5082. [[14:28:33]] For 324 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of a draft decision on the renaming of the village of Hymchin in the region of Ivano-Frankov (registration No. 5078). Please support and vote. [[14:29:08]] For 329 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have talked today about the need to declare elections. With the discussion, then, with the discussion, fine. Wait, what are you yelling at? 5769 is a draft decision to appoint alternate members of the Karlovy city council of the Poltav region. Is there no objection? There's a denial. I'm going to put a motion for a vote on this issue. Please support the above-mentioned proposal 5769. [[14:30:22]] For 298 Decision taken. Before we get to the point, I'm going to the committee. If you know that you have an election coming up, let's think about it a little bit earlier, not on the last day of the High Council plenary meeting. The deputy of the head is invited to the floor. Without discussion, we can either.? Discussed. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[14:31:22]] For 273 Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Zagreb’s Alina Leonidivna are invited to attend. Head of the committee, please. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Construction of Kloczko Andriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u269	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We were asked to make a head election. Please be supportive. And I understand that we have some delays, we have a lot. The committee's decision is to support it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee's decision is to recommend to the Supreme Council a decision on the election of the head. I'm sorry, members of the City Council on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u270	Please write down: two for, two for factions, one for MPs and one for groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u271	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Gregory Mikhailovich Nemiri, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u272	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u273	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u274	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I have never seen such a thing before. There's a council election, not a head. How come the committee and the committee head didn't figure out who they were choosing? I think that's unacceptable, so prepare for the session. Please, chairman, announce whom is elected, for the chairman of your committee does not even know where the elections will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u275	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u276	Please pass the word to Constantine Kasai, who is from this district and knows everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, there was just a mistake, the honourable lord of the committee was wrong. This is going to be the election of the deputies. What is the reason? Because the quorum didn't come together on March 12th or make very important decisions for the community. Colleagues, please support the decision given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u278	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u279	Sergey Shahov, suffering Lugansk and the trust MPs. For two and a half years, I've been claiming from this rostrum that millions of votes have been stolen from people by criminal authorities, deprived of constitutional rights by thefts, murderers, heads of two Donetsk and Lugansk regions. One left Slavyansk entirely with the deputies, at the mayor's office he just turned to the President -- and they introduced a military-civil administration. Let's enter in Kiev, in Kharkiv, let's enter, in fact, in millionaires -- and we're not going to make elections, just let them rob cities when there's a war, there's an environmental war, there's a pandemic, there's billions of people being robbed and there's no wages paid to miners! Today, all everyone thinks about is politics. Anyone who thinks of politics loses. He who thinks of a nation will win. The "Trust" group demands that the 18-nation elections in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas be put to the vote immediately. The court ruled on the matter and said that two thefts had been stolen and looted by the cities of Donetsk and Lugansk. Nobody's paying attention! I'm calling on President Greensky of Ukraine to cancel the orders and appoint an election. I appeal to the chairman of the committee on these matters. You don't have to say today: Either the head is chosen or someone else is chosen. Choose for the people, not for your pockets! Choose for Ukraine, not rob the state! Once again, put to the vote the elections in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas where people deserve it. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u280	Look, Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'm sure you don't want to go to the election. Don't worry about it. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u281	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, we're going to support this draft decision. And our faction actually always supports things like this. However, as a result of what the previous speaker said. President Zelensky, who was elected to the Political Conjuncturing Agreement, was elected to the Presidential Elections, and the Political Party "The Servant of the People" was elected both in Donetsk and in the Luhansk region. But it was rightly said that 10 OTGs in the Donetsk region and 8 OTG in the Lugansk region, where no local elections took place. In total, 500,000 voters from Donetsk and Luhansk regions did not have their legitimate constitutional right to choose the local authority they trusted. Moreover, in the Presidential decree of Slovenia, the President introduces a military-civil administration. Why? Because that local council elected by the locals supported "The Opposition Platform for Life." If we take such steps to choose local authority, we will soon have to put Ukraine in military and civilian administrations if we continue to do so "Serve the People" and President Zelensky moves. We are also insisting that elections to the Donetsk and Lugansk district councils take place in Donetsk and Lugansk areas. It's our legal right. And no matter what, they're not supporting President Zelensky, they're supporting Medvedchuk and the Opposition Platform for Life. Ukrainian citizens and residents of all regions of Ukraine, despite their political sympathy, are obliged to choose local authorities. Well, that goes on. Of course, it is better to prepare and present these draft laws so that they no longer blush in the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u282	Irina Volodymyrna's character. After this, Batenko, let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u283	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the formation of the agenda. There has never been such a mess in the hall. When it comes to raising the order of consideration of the issue as a single phenomenon, it's one where today 20 issues of the agenda of the unprepared, where the committee head doesn't know what it is, it's raised, and the Presidium puts it to a vote, it's already a mess that you've created in the state when twice a year they've allowed the House to vote, and thus today they've brought chaos into the voting process in the community. In particular, I would like to point out that you have forbidden villages to choose their old age. And believe me, the villages won't forgive you. Well, of course, we support the fact that our team was running elections on a liberated Donbassa, and today you're 18 communities in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions just huddled up geographically and banned them from choosing power. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u284	Thank you. I will look forward to the eighth call, and I will take the example. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, instead of head of the committee, that this is about the election of members of the Karlovy OTG City Council in the Poltav region, if anyone does not know. And the second thing I want to ask is not to vote for it because it's premature. The City Council of the Carlivian OTG is working. The city council’s respective commissions work in a state - of - the - art mode. I just don't want to work for a city head who sabotages the convening of the appropriate new sessions. And most call these sessions in turn. Therefore, our parliamentary group insists in principle that this issue is not to be considered in the order of the day today. And I urge the deputies to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u286	All those who wish to speak? Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, we need to resolve election issues in a complex way. And the Constitution makes it clear that the elections, the elections we have over the course of a year in the local councils can only take place twice. But we know that there are gaps, gaps in legislation that allow us to manipulate and abuse our powers, including representatives, of some authorities of local self-government. Such a gap was used in Kharkiv, where for 70 days, for 70 days, the local authorities did not accept to the known death of the city's head, in the city-millionaire, for 70 days they did not accept to the known death of their heads. According to my legislative initiative, a bill has been registered. The committee practically unanimously supported it and recommended that it be supported on a basis and in general. Mr. Head, Mr. Speaker, 5241, please consider this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u288	I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned ruling. As long as the people's deputies take their seats, that's the point of the next decision. Assigning the election of members of the Charles Town Council of the Poltava region on Sunday, October 31, 2021. Did everyone hear that? I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order on the appointment of alternate members of the Carlivian Town Council of the Poltavian Region (registration number 5769). Please support and vote. [[14:43:32]] For 263 Decision taken. The next issue is the bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine (for payment services) (Registration No. 4365). It is suggested that we consider the simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:44:03]] For 233 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Vassilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhaylovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, Vasilevska Smagluk, 96th constituency. Your attention is given to a bill that goes into the Law on Payment Services, which you and I have recently passed. The purpose of the bill is to improve administrative and criminal responsibility for violating the requirements set out in the Ukrainian Payment Services Act. To achieve that goal, we propose such changes. Agree to the terminology of the separate articles of KUPAP, which are responsible for offences in the financial services market, with the provisions of the draft Ukrainian Law on Payment Services. And we're also proposing that we complement KUPAP with a new article 168 prim. "Infringement of the order of employment in the payment market," giving the authority to deal with the cases of this category to local courts and officials of the authorities of the National Police of Ukraine. And we're also proposing to increase criminal responsibility for illegal transactions with payment instructions, payment instruments, bank and payment account access, electronic wallets, equipment for making them. In addition, we complement the Criminal Code with a new article 200 prima. One, by which we establish criminal responsibility for transactions with e-money by persons who have not been authorized under Ukrainian law. Please support this bill, because we now have a lot of distribution and are growing in violent blooms of abuse of various types of criminal offences, fraud with credit cards, bank cards, and bank accounts. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. We suggest that we increase the responsibility for these kinds of crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u290	The head of the Committee’s Committee on the Law Protection of Danuza Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Protection discussed at its meeting on 12 May this year a draft law that is announced to you and is on board (registration number 4365), which was submitted by the people's deputies: Vasilevska-Smagluk, Kinsburg, Gerega and others. The bill is designed to improve administrative and criminal responsibility for violating the requirements set out in the Ukrainian Payment Services Act. The bill is meaningfully related to draft Ukrainian laws on payment services (registration number 4364) and amendments to the Tax Code on Payment Services (registration number 4366). The bill amends the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code in connection with the Ukrainian Law on Payment Services. In particular, it is proposed to establish administrative and criminal responsibility for violations of the law governing payment market activities and to bring into line with the terminology of individual articles of KUPAP and KPC with the Ukrainian Law on Payment Services. While acknowledging the need to clarify the terminology and individual rules of the Administrative and Criminal Responsibility for Offences in Payment Services Act, the Committee draws attention to a large number of comments to the bill that will need to be removed from the second reading. But in general, the bill of the Committee on Law Enforcement proposes to be adopted as a basis. So the committee is proposing a bill for registration number 4365 to support and accept as a basis for further elaboration of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Please sign up. Two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u293	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u294	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u295	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u296	Thank you so much for saying that. During the discussion of the basic bill on payment services, we have, in principle, already expressed our position. And all the arguments that we've been making, including trying to motivate the session hall, if we don't have our reasons to hear, then listen, in the first reading, to read the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, in the second reading, to the legal administration. But unfortunately, no one's heard, and now we have the same problem, it's not going to take a picture that's already been passed into this bill. It's enough to look again at the findings of the scientific expertise on this bill -- and you'll see everything there, what we talked about during the consideration of the basic bill. But I didn't want to talk about it right now, and I don't want to talk about the content right now, because it doesn't make sense for me to go over it in a new way, but in the form of this bill. Dear colleagues, this isn't the first time, and this is literally yesterday we had this problem, and it's repeated again when there's still a basic bill, it's adopted by the Supreme Council, but it didn't become law. As soon as he becomes law, as soon as you see the practice of implementing it, you can then try to comply with his requirements to make some laws or amendments to other laws. And so right now, there's no bill yet, and it's not going to know what fate it's going to be: it's going to be signed by the President, it's not going to be vetoed, it's not going to be vetoed, it's not going to be vetoed, it's not going to be rejected, it's not going to be rejected, or it's not going to be -- we're going to now, we're going to be adopting other bills to implement this bill, all the more responsible for making changes to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code. I'd like to ask my colleagues to stop this practice, it's completely new, I don't remember this practice before, and so I'd like to ask now, at this point, not to accept this bill. Whether the President signs it or what fate will be for him, it is clear after the due date has passed. Further, once the bill becomes effective, the requirements of the bill for amending other legislation could be met. And at this point, our faction cannot vote for this bill in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u297	Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u298	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u299	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u300	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head and honourable colleagues, it is clearly necessary to increase criminal and administrative responsibility for card violations. But when we talk about this bill, it is definitely incomplete and is a sign of legal nihilism. In particular, cases of violations of the order of employment in the payment market are envisaged by courts and authorities of the National Police, such as the amendments to articles 121, 122 of the Criminal Procedure Code. At the same time, it does not correspond to the functions and powers of the National Police. In addition, the explanatory note states that the courts have to deal with these cases and that the protocols are made by the National Police. However, this does not correspond to the very text of a bill in which the subject, authorized to draw up protocols, is not indicated at all. It is not clear how the violation envisaged in the second part of the new article 201-1 of the Criminal Code will qualify in practice for the conduct of transactions with e-money by persons who have not been authorized by a group of persons. The project needs substantial work, there is great doubt as to whether it will be possible to do so in the second reading. So far, he can't be approved in such a way as he is. Because of this, the "Fatherland" faction team will continue to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u301	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u302	Dear colleagues, of course, we need to fight violators in banking transactions, the only question is, what is the method? In this bill, you've already heard, it's about amending two codes: Criminal and Administrative. In the Administrative Department, I'm going to tell you a big secret, and we're going to suggest we fight even more violently against violators, but we're reducing fines. Because in the current version of the Code of Criminal Procedure, fines are larger than those currently proposed. On the other hand, we're proposing to introduce criminal responsibility from one year to three without allocating it's going to be a payment of 500 dollars, or it's going to be a payment of 50,000 dollars. It seems to me that it is very similar to the Soviet system of colossals when they were put in jail for a stake, just as it is for robbing an entire wagon. I don't know, honestly, for today, how to get out of this situation. I understand that the majority will vote in favour. I would recommend to the MP's "For the Future" Group that we hold back, as did the "Fatherland" Party, "European Solidarity." If you do get 226 votes, please don't put it to the vote as a whole, because, well, you have to verify these violations. Once again, we have to fight, but we have to do it properly. For one offense, the same attraction to responsibility as the great one cannot be minimal. This will result only in law enforcement being, you know, what to do with these violators, and we will not achieve the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u303	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u304	Please pass the word to Grigory Mikolaiovich Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u305	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u306	The honourable people's deputies, in fact, have been passing bills recently, and all of the rostrums say that we're going to change the bills between the first and the second readings. I would like to point out that this bill does not increase responsibility, but introduces new norms into the administrative code, as well as into the Criminal Code of Ukraine. With regard to the Ukrainian Administrative Code, a new article 166-28 is introduced, which essentially duplicates the function of an existing article 164, "The violation of the order of economic activity". It's still necessary to determine, a new unit that has such powers, not the National Police, really, there are no such words as to authorize the creation of administrative protocols in the law. As for the Criminal Code, well, you can talk about different things. Well, you can't bully codes like that. The new article 200-1 says that there will be responsibility for actions that do not yet exist in Ukraine. The two bills that went through the first reading were not considered by the Supreme Council and were not adopted by law. What if those bills do not accept what to do with these new articles? We will not support this bill because: (a) it is illogical; (b) it loses all the design of changes to codes. And we ask other MPs not to support it, we need to adopt basic bills, we need to analyze the activity, the social danger that no one is talking about, and then we just need to criminalize it. This will be true in law and in moral order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u307	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine (for payment services) (Registration No. 4365). Ready? Wait, I didn't say I didn't put up a vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:58:07]] For 219 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of draft Law registration number 4365. Please support and vote. [[14:58:41]] For 235 Decision taken. Plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Oh, wait, the announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u308	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, two small announcements. Once again the button didn't work correctly, National MP Volinec asked him to vote for 4303, and instead of the "against" button he pressed "against". And an IFF announcement. An interfractional MP compound has been created for the development of mountain areas. The heads of this association elected the deputies of Ukraine, Timothyzuk Volodymyr Jaroslavovich and Tishchenko Mikolaiovich. Welcome, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m0.u309	Thank you. 3 p.m., plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared closed. The next session will begin at 4 p.m.
