ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Good morning, dignitaries! Please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the "for" button, the first left-hand button, the green button, and using the sensory button. Please. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:08:43]] There are 157 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today's birthday to the national deputies of Olga Valeriyovna Saladuhi, congratulations! [[Applause]] Igor Fedorovich Motka and Sergey Petrovich Labazyuk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Congratulations! Congratulations on behalf of your colleagues! I want health, success, strength, victory, new achievements, the best. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. He's dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u2	Dear friends, good afternoon! The eighth year in a row is a temporary occupation of Ukrainian Crimea, and the eighth year in a row, we have a free economic zone called Crimea. This means that Ukraine, in the eighth year in a row, creates a business arrangement for the occupation. In the 15th year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine banned the trade in Crimea until the day of the return of Crimea to our sovereignty. Why is there still a law that creates a free economic zone in Crimea? With our own hands, we create opportunities that help to sponsor the invaders. We say Crimea is Ukraine, but we're comparing Ukrainian citizens to non-residents, actually foreigners. Our citizens with a Crimean pen have a lot of bureaucratic problems. For example, there may be limited access to banking services, or the person who receives an inheritance has to pay more taxes, that is, as a foreigner. This free economic zone of Crimea needs to be canceled. I am convinced that the abolition of the free economic zone of Crimea and the adoption of the Crimea Platform package will be a powerful signal for international partners, particularly those who will come to Ukraine in August for the first Crimson Platform summit. We must constantly show the world that Ukraine is not only asking for help, but it is also taking important steps to depopulate the peninsula. This law must be repealed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please move on to the hour of questions to the government. No, I've already asked the question, after. I remind you: 20 minutes is a statement by the rapporteur; 21 minutes is a question from the MP factions and groups to the rapporteur; then 20 minutes is a question to the Prime Minister and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Minister of Social Policy Marina Volodymyrovna Lazebna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u4	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! Today I want to inform you about the state of affairs and the government's work on State policies for the protection of children's rights and pensions. The questions are meaningful, so I'll open up the main points, and I'll be happy to answer more specific questions after the speech. I'll start with a policy to protect children's rights. The task of the State is to build a country where it is not scary to give birth, where families with children do not live in extreme poverty, and children grow happy, have equal rights and opportunities to realize themselves. Our priorities are, therefore, to support the income of families with children, to develop family and family - oriented forms of parenting, to help communities develop a system of child rights and social services for families with children. What is the state of affairs in these directions? Today, the State is supporting the income of more than 2 million families through ten types of targeted state social assistance: childbearing assistance in connection with pregnancy and childbirth; caregivers; caregivers for children with disabilities; care for single mothers; care for children with care and care; support for many children with disabilities; and care for children with disabilities; and other care. For those children who cannot live with their family, the State develops family and family - oriented forms of parenting. In general, at the beginning of this year, we have about 70,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care, of whom 64,000 children are raised in family forms, or 92 percent. Every year, he acquires the status of an orphan child and a child deprived of parental care, on average 10,000 children. Our job is to have more children in the family than orphans. And even though all the complications of last year are in place, the task is being accomplished. The most common form of arrangement is the care and care of family members, then foster families, and foster homes. The government's budget provides subsidies to local authorities for the acquisition or construction of family-type children's homes and housing for orphans and children deprived of parental care. In Ukraine there are already 1,000 236 family - type children’s homes. In 2020, they became 82 more than they were in 2019. In foster homes and foster homes, more than 14.5,000 children are raised. A very important change in the protection of children's rights system is that in 2017 territorial communities were given the authority and responsibility to protect children's rights as guardians and caregivers. But the real creation of services for children in communities began only in 2020. We focused our attention on this process and tried to make up for what hadn't been done since the 17th. As a result, there are now 1,000 129 child services in the communities. We hope that this system will soon be brought to an end. Recently, an effective monitoring tool, an interactive map of local communities, was in operation. It's on the Ministry's website. Not just us now, but everyone can see how they protect the rights of the child and provide social services in every local community. The information is presented by more than 160 indicators. We realize that we need not only to control but also to help communities develop effective work with social protection. So each community should have a social worker and a system of social services. Better to warn than to deal with the consequences. One bracelet, invested in prevention, will save $8 of social expenditure to cope with the consequences. I want to give you this information. According to the region, in 2020, out of 15,000 children at risk of being expelled from their families, 14,000 were saved by social services. A separate complex approach is to support children who have been affected by war and armed conflict and have become displaced. Today, there are more than 180,000 children. A set of measures to support them includes: financial assistance, preschool facilities, free nutrition in educational institutions, support for higher education, health benefits, free psychological care, and medical services. What the results of the government's work I'd like to point out. We all understand how difficult last year has been, but it is this complexity that has forced decisions to be made quickly and implemented, both on an urgent basis, to help here and now, as well as strategic ones that haven't been implemented in years. We targeted families with children in pandemic conditions, primarily the most vulnerable. Children with care or care from 2 to 2.5 subsistence minimums have been increased and children with disabilities have access to 3.5. We have increased child support for low - income families from 85 percent to 130 per child’s minimum of living. This allowed for increased support for children in low - income families to an average of 6,000 dollars a month. We have expanded the subsidy program, especially for many foster families and foster homes of the family type, which are now out of line. We introduced a new species, and we paid for it over the year -- quarantine assistance for children to natural entrepreneurs. Since September 2020, parents have been able to choose whether to get help with the baby's package in a natural way or in a monetary way. As a result, since the beginning of this year, over 47,000 families have received “baby packages” and more than 76,000 families have received money for social cards. A network of shops where children’s items can be purchased with these cards is constantly expanding. Now it's almost 4,000 stores, including 222 online stores. Since January 2021, we have also increased the allowance for the care of a child with disabilities in subgroup A by 50 percent of the subsistence minimum. We also gathered all initiatives for the protection of children's rights, which for years did not come out of the Ministry, and we worked on them and submitted 8 bills to the Supreme Council. I want to thank you, honourable national deputies, for making four of them laws. And because of this, orphans and children deprived of parental care who are disabled can now live and be brought up in foster families and foster homes of the family type until they are 23 years old. Orphans and children deprived of parental care will not lose their right from now on to extra housing when they reach 23 years of age. It is forbidden to sell electronic cigarettes to persons under 18 years of age. State social assistance has been increased for children with disabilities who have suffered from explosive objects. We hope that you will support other initiatives that will help each child to realize their right to be raised in the family and to improve the adoption system. This is what we are not stopping, and last week, at a government meeting, we made a set of decisions to protect the rights of children, including a bill to increase the size of the baby or adopt up to 50,000 dollars. The second important bill, it clearly and unequivocally distinguishes the social protection of children between the National Social Service, local self-government and state administrations. It will ensure continuous work to protect children’s rights, including during the transition period under decentralization. It is also important that the responsibility of officials for violations of children’s rights be strengthened. We've adopted two important concepts: The concept of the State Social Programme for the Recovery and Recreation of Children until 2025 and the Concept for the Establishment and Development of the Early Intervention System. The latest solution will help to create a comprehensive family-centre early intervention system in Ukraine, which combines medical, psychological, social and educational services, to ensure early detection and prevention of child developmental disorders. Early intervention centres will be established on the basis of an active network of health care, social protection, education, and parental communication facilities. We understand that communities need to help organize social protection for their inhabitants and implement electronic services. To this end, the Ministry has provided the community with a software complex called the Integrated Information System "Social Society", which has already been implemented by 1,000 393 territorial communities. We've continued the pilot project "The Development of Social Services," where communities can get funding from the state budget for the development of six social services. It is a day - care service for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, accompanied by an inclusive education, a temporary rest service for parents or those who replace them, who care for children with disabilities, a support service. The government has already made a decision, and after six months, a government program will be in place to help low - income families discover and develop their own affairs. At the expense of the state budget, up to 15 minimum wages will be provided for the purchase of the necessary equipment and materials. So low-income families can get out of the poverty trap, and the community, instead of social benefits, gets new jobs and taxes from new entrepreneurs. The number of children in need of support depends on what measures are taken to prevent their children from getting divorced. That is why the government has been very supportive of the development of the patronage. In a year, the number of foster families in the community doubled, and at the next government meeting, decisions will be made to simplify the procedure for the formation of a protective family. The cost of the budget for the development of the patronage has been set aside, and the family of a foster parent should be in every community, for it is the prevention of social orphans, the help of children and their parents to cope with difficult circumstances and, above all, to be together. You can talk a lot more, but all of our plans, all of our best strategies and laws will only work if we move forward together, implement them every day at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to inform you about the social protection of the elderly and the disabled. The second year in a row, the government provides an indexation of pensions. This year, from March 1st, pensions are indexed for 8 million pensioners by 11 percent. In July this year, there will be an indexation of pensions for another million pensioners appointed in 2018-2020, as well as for those who receive a minimum pension. So this year's increase is going to be 10.5 million pensioners. On the slide, you can see that on April 1, this year, the average pension is 3 000 725 dollars. Compared to the same period last year, it increased by 17.5 percent, or 555 dollars. Unfortunately, pension legislation was amended in 2017 in such a way that the date of annual pension indexation from March 1st was deleted. And for individual categories of pensioners: scientists, government officials, local government officials, military personnel, pension indexes, and pension indexes have been suspended. Thus, the Ministry brought the matter under review. And it was developed by the Ministry and supported by the government, introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Law 4668, which restores the indexation of pensions for all categories of pensioners and sets the date of the indexation – September 1st. I look forward to the adoption of this bill because it will allow for the provision of the necessary funds for the next year's pension index for all categories of pensioners. I want to point out that the government, in terms of pensioners, has a clear position not to limit itself to pension insurance. After the decline in 2016, the only social contribution was halved to the Pension Fund, which could be directed towards a higher level of pension insurance. That's why both the president and the government started. At the request of the President, the government has begun to initiate additional social programs. This is an address aid for 2 million 400,000 pensioners over 75 years of age. These are monthly compensation payments for half a million people who are in their 30 ’ s and 35 ’ s. And this is a one-million-million-thousand-thousand-low-wage pensioners that they received during their work. You can see on the slide that about 5 million pensioners, almost half of them, are covered by these targeted social programs. Now, let's talk about the size of these payments. For the President's initiative this year, 500 dollars has been extended to 80 plus individuals and a minimum pension payment of 2,000,600 dollars has been provided for them. From October 1st, a pension of 400 dollars will be granted to pensioners between 75 and 80 years of age, with a minimum pension payment of 2,000,500 dollars. Starting next year, these fixed sizes will be indexed and then increased. Then, from January 1st and December 1st of this year, we increased the minimum pension rate by age in pensioners over 65 years of age, which is 2.3 million people. Now the minimum they get is 2,000, 400 dollars, and from December 1st, the minimum wage for them is going to be 2,000, 600 dollars. It's also important for me to point out that since April 1, we've already recalculated pensions for 300,000 working pensioners. We have nearly doubled our pension to the families of those who have died. As of July 1, this year, there will also be an increase in minimum pension benefits for persons with disabilities as a result of the war. And also I can't help but say 1 March to 11 percent of the insurance payments, these are so-called regressions, for almost 200,000 victims in production. The average increase for this category was 430 dollars. In particular, I want to stop to improve the social protection of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident and those affected by the disaster. And I would like to immediately thank the Ukrainian National Deputies for adopting the first reading of the Government Bill 4555 -- on increasing the level of pension provision for this category of persons. If this bill is adopted, an average of 40 percent of the pensions will be increased for more than 30,000 persons with disabilities from the incidence of Chaes accidents from January 1, 2022. But you and I need to work together on another decision that is expected of us by 700,000 people who have suffered as a result of Chaes. I mean an additional pension for health damage that has not been reviewed since 2014. What else is important? Among the strategic issues that are critical, I would like to point out two: the reform of the subsistence minimum system and the introduction of mandatory pension savings. In February of this year, the government submitted to the Supreme Council a package of bills that comprehensively amend legislation on the calculation and application of the subsistence minimum. Their acceptance will allow them to keep a fair estimate of the actual minimum of living, and in a few years, ensure that the minimum social standards, which are the basic source of human existence, correspond to the size of such an actual minimum of living. We'll work with the people's deputies to resolve these issues. With regard to the introduction of mandatory pension stocks This is the path to decent pensions and economic development. This is provided by the President's programme and the political party programming documents presented today in Parliament. The government is actively working on this issue. In particular, it is important for us to gradually move to the cumulative principles of financing early retirement for workers who work under harmful and difficult conditions. The relevant Bill 4408 is being considered in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest report by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development examines 77 countries with accumulating pension systems. They're all very different in construction, taking into account the local features of economic development and even mentality, but they have one goal: to reduce the dependence of people of a respected age on the will of politicians and the ability of the state budget. Their goal is to make retirement savings a property of a person that can provide a better future. In eight of these countries, the number of people in pension funds exceeds annual GDP. And Ukraine shares the last place on this map with Pakistan. Pension stocks in our citizens are less than 0.1 percent of GDP. The whole world understands that because of demographic changes, the contribution of workers will never again be able to give pensions to pensioners, and they need to be complemented by pension savings. The important thing is that pension savings are investments in the economy, they contribute to economic growth, they increase jobs, and they eventually increase the financial capacity of the solidarity pension system. But this system will work and have confidence in people only if they are united, have a consolidated vision, and do their part conscientiously. I thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the interview. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u7	Galina Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u8	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Ladies and gentlemen, would you please tell us when this situation will be over when persons with disabilities who have already been placed with an appropriate disability group are forced annually or two years on various commissions to confirm that disability in order to receive adequate social benefits?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u9	Thank you for asking, but it's a question of reforming the MSECs. If we clearly simplify this situation when a person in whom nothing is likely to improve in health, but he has to go through these commissions periodically every year to confirm his or her condition, that's a very bad story. Today, together with the Ministry of Health, we are working on this issue so that the setting up of disability will be objective, so that as soon as the disability is established, information will be given to people, social protection agencies, employment agencies as well, so that the issue will be in the best possible way for them, rather than passing through, as I say, seven rounds of hell after you are still sick, and you can’t get your help. That's why we're working on this, but it's certainly complicated, because it touches two ministries -- the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u10	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u11	Eutushka, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy, Michael Cimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u12	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u13	Thank you, colleagues, for the faction of Eutuska. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Marina Volodymyrical, I would like to begin by thanking you and your team, which is actually working more smoothly than the previous team of the Ministry. But the problems remain. Today, you have tried to shed light on such a painful subject as the Children’s Protection Regulation. I have a matter of fact. Do you remember how much State has allocated housing to orphans who are deprived of parental care? You've talked a lot about O.T.G., but unfortunately, the social protection vertical has collapsed, not all O.T.G.s have the ability to open child-protection centers and services. The authority must also transfer resources with authority. And about pensioners. Is the Ministry planning to initiate an increase in pensions for military personnel? It's a very painful subject. They're waiting for your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u14	Thank you, Mikhailovich. I know the figure that's taken out of the budget as a subsidy to local budgets is 806 million dollars. At a previous government meeting, we adopted the procedure for the use of this subsidy. Clearly, these funds are for all children and for all. Because it is necessary to support the development of children's homes of family type and small group houses, and also to enable them to purchase or compensate children who are orphans to exercise their constitutional right to housing. It is therefore not enough, but they must be used effectively together today. Retirement of military personnel. You know, it's probably the most painful question for me. Because I know how it happened, what are the standards of laws that aren't being implemented, which in the 17th year were pre-calculated. And today it's really military, and it's huge. That's half a million people, they're expecting us to make a fair pension. But if three years ago the index was not stopped and it was made for them, imagine their pensions today. Maybe we wouldn't have dealt with the issue in a major way, but 30 percent, because every year 10 percent is indexed, these pensions would also be indexed and raised. But we will now be working and working together with our ministries of defense and internal affairs, because there are problems, I confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u15	The word is given to the national deputy, Litvina Alexandre Mikolaiovich. But I realized that he was handing over Alexander Sergiyovich to Bakumov. Please, Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your report. I have a bit of the same question. I'd like to be more specific. Please tell me, is there a plan to recalculate pensions for internal affairs pensioners? We know that now almost 230,000 IMF pensioners have been reduced since July 21st. The decline was due to the fact that debt payments had stopped. And we know that there may now be such a small social crisis with regard to this category. I'm asking you to tell me what steps are being taken to increase the corresponding pensions for internal affairs pensioners. And I have a second question for you. Please tell me, is there going to be an increase in pensions for the Chernobyls and the category? Because we know that we have a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Do you have any options for increasing pensions in July 2021? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. Actually, with regard to the military, I've already told you that we've been working, and we have four options for how to solve the question of military personnel. They're not free, they're valuable, they're worth 40 billion, they're worth 60 billion, and they're worth 40 billion. And we're going to have to make a deal, because even if we do find an option, we need to have the resources to do that. It's about the Chernobyls. You're referring to the decision of the court of April 7, after which the 96th rule is returned, where the pension, the minimum pension for people associated with Chernobyl, is set at 7, 8, there are 10 minimum pensions per age. This question, this is a government bill, there are appropriate initiatives by the Social Policy Committee, and we're going to have to find a compromise solution, because this is really a question that needs to be resolved by 1 July of this year. Because if you and I don't work it out and solve it, and we don't convince Minfin that it needs a resource, it's going to be a very dangerous situation. This issue needs a fundamental solution because there is a decision by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u19	Leontijovich. But thank you. Please pass the word to Sophia Fedini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u20	Excuse me. Mikhailo Leontijovich. Sophia Romanovna Fedina. I'm sorry, Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u21	This is a wonderful explanation for the Zelensky team that in 2021 it was so lame, because something went down in 2017. That's probably the logic you come up with when your team now proposes to raise your retirement age by one month each year. But my question. Today, we are considering the Regulation on funding for the full treatment of children, particularly those with cancer and cancer. How do you feel about the fact that on October 21, last year, the government took almost 105 million dollars out of the fund and transferred them mainly to the construction of roads? And the second question. When will the state residence finally be handed over to children to fulfill President Zelensky's electoral promises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Sofia. We can talk a lot with you about what's been done since the 17th year, how the internship rate was reduced (it was 1.35, it became 1), and that's 30 percent reduction in pensions, as the index date came back. And according to the military, I can, well, meet you and comment on everything that's been done. But that's not the question. These mistakes need to be corrected because people are not guilty of making such decisions. It's about the kids. I don't care if something is taken from children, from pensioners, or from programs. But not everything depends solely on the minister of social policy. The Minister of Social Policy understands that social policy is a mirror of economics. The better the economy develops, the more resources we have to support the most vulnerable species. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know when anything will be passed on. I'm responsible for those decisions, for that policy, for those legislative initiatives that are being developed by the Ministry. We don't touch that question, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u23	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u24	Dear Mrs. Marino, thank you very much for the detailed report, but I would like to focus your speech on one more such problem: the black people, and in particular the compensation of valuable treatment for those who were already treated in the 20th year, which is scheduled for the 21st year. It's a lot of money, but unfortunately, they're not returned to people. And the question of that. Will you increase the amount, the cost, of this treatment? And the second question. Please tell us about the problem of social worker deficits in local communities and areas. Is it planned to review the schedules for these social services because they are suffocating in this job for now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I mean, about social workers, we're working on it. It's always in our initiatives that the Ministry of Finance has to provide State budget assistance to compensate the community for the cost of supporting such social workers, because that's what I said, it's about prevention, it's going to save us other social costs. Regarding compensation for treatment. You know very well that in the past, indeed, decisions have been made, but they have not been paid. We've made up our mind, we've made up our mind, and this money is already going to be, this 14 there, I think, millions of dollars will be counted for the treatment that people already have. We have to give people this money for treatment there in the 19th year. So the funds are foreseen, the decision is taken, I'm sure it'll be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is given to Pavlovka National Deputy Yuri Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u27	Yuri Pavlovenko. Madam Minister, in my opinion, the absence of the Prime Minister's consideration of this issue illustrates the government's attitude towards child rights policy. And in my opinion, that's why the decision that we're currently discussing and reporting to the government for its implementation on child protection is not implemented by 90 percent. In the last year, the number of children whose rights have been violated or unenforced has increased, with the birth rate declining dramatically in the current year. Unfortunately, we have a fall in many positions, starting with adoption and ending up with a number of foster families. The basic level of protection of children’s rights is being undermined. At this point, dozens of child service workers are getting laid off, and tomorrow, there will be no one to work with. At the same time, the legislative government is taking its initiatives, which unfortunately only make things worse, I have the right to say it. I demand the government: stop the release.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u28	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. You and I have had a very frequent debate. You are certainly dissatisfied with all government decisions, even though there is progress. There are problems, we know the reasons, but sometimes we hear criticism from time to time. With regard to the Supreme Council's decision on the state of social protection of children and urgent measures to protect children's rights, I have a report. I'd like to hand it over to you, and then I'd like to take it in every position, because something's done, something's not done, it's probably going to need the help of the people's deputies. So let's sit together, I can even give it to you today. Here's my statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u29	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Madam Minister, after repeatedly addressing the MP's "Trust", public, personal, thank God that the government has adopted 546 Orders, where it has suspended the mandatory transfer of pension payments to bank cards. But there's still 277 Regulations, where it's supposed to provide pensions, it's still paid. So two questions. Will the MINS review 277 Orders? And the second. I asked you an important question in January about the reduction of social protection workers working in former RDAs who are now working in united communities. In the Poltava region alone, the reduction is more than 35 percent. At the same time, 546 decrees you predict that these social workers you shorten will be delivering pensions. Where does that make sense? Who counted it? Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the government has reviewed Decree 277. We've identified ourselves in joint actions that we're going on a gradual transition, preparation and banking infrastructure at locations where it's not there. And Crucifixion also needs to be prepared, because early last year, when there was a pandemic, we agreed that they would come home and give people the opportunity to pay for online utilities, which is what we have. By the way, look, 287 of the Ordinance, it also gave us an incentive to do what you and I have to do for people in common. As far as you're concerned. You say there'll be a payment delivery. She won't be here. In addition, we are in favour of those small - celled groups. There's no such thing. We're here to get all the low-mobile groups home in a convenient way, and we're on our way. Besides, if you've noticed and watched the last decision of the government, there's, even, thank you to the Minister of Infrastructure, there's a state position. Because, you know, the Pension Fund costs go to tariffs to pay for these. on delivery of pensions. There is such a decision that a tariff may not be applied if pensions, separate payments, and payments are raised. This is the state's position as Kubrakov's Infrastructure Minister, and I thank him for that. So we're not distracting the Pension Fund, we're going to focus more on pensioners, and we're going to take about a year and a half in preparation to provide people with comfortable services and give them a choice. A person has to choose either a postal operator or a banking institution, or it has to be a person’s choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Please have a seat. Sign up for questions from the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u33	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk "The Fatherland." Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to a colleague of the Sergio Eutuska faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u34	Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u35	Thank you, fellow Mikhail Mikhailovich Cimbaluk. Sergey Eutuszok faction of "The Fatherland", Equinox. I would now like to address the Minister of Finance on behalf of, perhaps, those heads of the united territorial communities, and not only, but in principle, from the Association of Cities of Ukraine, which, in terms of the mechanics of education subsidies, have huge deficits. Please tell me, at what stage is the preview now possible? Because there are united territorial communities with deficits, for example, from the Sarnensk united territorial community of the Plain region, a 36 million - dollar deficit. And whatever optimisations they make, whatever allowances and payments they cancel, all the deficits will be impossible to cover for their own income. Please tell the school’s principals, the leaders of the united local communities in general, how the decision will be taken after the review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. You know that we never create debt, including commitments made by the State. And on the education grant, I think the question will be solved, we'll find additional resources and cover up the need. If necessary, give us information that specifically lacks funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u37	Please, National Deputy Fedina Sofia Romanovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u38	Please pass the word to my colleague Alexi Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u39	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Alexei Honcharenko, "European Solidarity", co-head of the interfractional association "Clean Energy is a healthy environment." I have a question. There is no Prime Minister, there is the First Deputy Prime Minister, I hope that there is at least a new Minister of Energy, by the way, this is the fifth Minister for this power in two years. I would like to ask you whether we will fulfill the commitments made by the State, and will we finally destroy the investment in our country? The point is that a year ago, a memorandum was signed by the government with alternative energy producers, that is, clean energy, which predicted that they were lowering tariffs, the government is paying in debt. Debt government never pays. I spoke to the Prime Minister on a number of occasions, telling me that he was giving protocol orders that something, some mechanism to find, no mechanisms were found. What's more, you're still offering excise duty to enter, which was completely unforeseeable. Guys, we already have a statement from Nordic companies, which means Scandinavian companies, that they stop any investment in Ukraine. How long will that be?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u41	That's a nice difficult question, thank you for it. Alternative energy is really a priority. And recently, I had a meeting with the head of the World Bank in charge of Ukraine, and we agreed to develop a five - year strategy. Because the concept of Ukraine’s development and cooperation with the World Bank ends at the end of this year, and the issue of Ukraine’s commitment to alternative energy is seen as number one, between the dearbonization and other environmental issues. More specifically, I would like to ask Herman Valeriyovich, Minister of Energy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u42	Dear National MP, in fact we're working on this issue, there's two elements to the question. The first is those debts that were created in the past period. And now we're looking at a few options to solve them, to settle them. One of them is the corresponding "green" bonds of Ukrennergo, which are now being discussed. And the second question is the emergence of new debts that have already emerged this year. And we're working on a mechanism to change the working conditions of the market in a way that doesn't create those debts in the future at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u43	The word is given to the People's Proscetku Eduardo Petrovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u44	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and members of the government! Edward Proschtuk, 85th constituency, Attitude. My question is addressed in part to the Minister of Health and the Minister of Defence of Ukraine. In view of the increase in the Russian military contingent in the eastern borders of Ukraine today, the attention of society is focused on the readiness of our army, on possible negative developments. If there is no doubt in a part of the fighting spirit, I have a question about their health. So the question. How many military personnel who carry out the task of conducting the United Forces operation have passed the first and second stages of the COVID-19 vaccination? Do we have enough vaccine brigades and facilities in the military? But is there a need for a vaccine for our army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u45	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for asking. Yes, today the vaccination of military personnel, primarily those who defend the borders of our country, as well as all those who are in full combat readiness today, is a priority for us. I'll tell you that the vaccination of the military personnel was our first phase. Today, vaccines are sufficient to inoculate the full strength of our military personnel. They're prioritised and they're vaccinated. We also have a large percentage of coverage. The vaccination of military personnel is carried out in two directions. The first is being vaccinated by internal medical personnel at the Ministry of Defense. And the second is that all who are in rotation are vaccinated at our vaccination sites with vaccines that are now in Ukraine. I'm going to give you a more specific number personally when I talk to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u46	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u47	Questions to the Minister of Social Policy. Marina Volodymyrna, a package of babies over the last three years (meaning 2018, 2019 and 2020) has been purchased in a non-competitive way, around ProZorro and in the form of virtually untrustworthy international technical assistance to Ukraine. Indeed, according to the performance audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, the International Mediator of UNOPS has wrongly received an over-calculated budget of 129 million dollars. First question. When will this money return fully to Ukraine? And the second question. In 2021, thousands of families with newborn children did not receive a package of babies because of the systematic negligence of the authorities regarding the purchase through ProZorro. So tell me, who will be responsible for this? And when is the delivery of the baby's package still unlocked? Thank you very much for your attention. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. The first is about the non-competitive way. Today, you know, yes, the law was passed in October last year, after which this procedure is to take place on ProZorro. As soon as certain inaccuracies in the law were removed, the next day the Ministry of Social Policy signed an agreement with the purchasing organization and the tender is ongoing. Now with regard to UNOPS, which was prescribed in this law as a supplier and which supplied and purchased a package of babies. Indeed, the Court of Auditors has determined that there are funds that UNOPS has to pay back. The Ministry of Social Policy has turned to an international organization, we have a deal with them, and they're going to reimburse it. This process is going on, of course, the budget, and that's the responsibility. Regarding the tender. The tender is ongoing, and I hope that it will be conducted in a transparent way, will be the designated supplier. Both the children and the parents who want to get the baby package will be able to get it in a month, well, as soon as all the procedures are complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Comedian Natalia Igorovna, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u50	The chairman, please pass the word to Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u51	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economics of our military pensioners. We were asked to report that the pension rate of our military pensioners was three times lower than in 2013. Please tell me, what is the prospect of increasing pensions for military pensioners? After all, these people have given dozens of years of their own life and health in order to ensure the security and independence of our country, and they certainly deserve the support, attention, and respect of the State. Thank you for your answer, Alexei Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u53	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for asking. It does not really apply only to military pensioners, with all due respect, it applies to each pensioner in one degree or another. And the answer to that question is only in the plane, or will it be possible to ensure economic growth, which will allow pensions to be paid according to those priorities, their increases that can be predicted from the state's financial position. So I hope that there will be an opportunity to submit a government programme at the end of June, which will provide for growth points, drivers who will develop these growth points, and thus ensure Ukraine's economic growth for at least three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u54	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u56	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u57	I have a few questions. The first is to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. Please tell me, when the riots in the Dergeokadastre end and people will approve the documentation not by $800 per acre, but free of charge, as provided by law, and the MPs will be given not a write-off, but a specific answer? And when are we going to run out of land through the Dergeocadastr? The raids are now in my district alone by 1,000 acres [1,100 ha]. Second question to Mincult. Will you, Mr. Minister, fulfill your promise to go to Preyaslav and deal with the situation surrounding the NIEZ Preyaslav Museum and its director, Lukasevic, who is accused of stealing more than 17 million dollars? And what have you decided to do with the Council of Woznies and the bells that are de facto falling apart today, and these are cultural monuments?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u58	Minister Tkachenko is on his way with the official delegation in Georgia. So I'm Karandiev Rostislav, the first deputy, and I'm going to ask you to start with a culture, and then Taras Visatsky, the first deputy, will answer the geocadastral question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Good afternoon. Rostislav Karandiev, First Deputy Minister of Culture. I inform you that for a really long time, more than three years now, a criminal case has been under investigation for the possible misuse of budget funds for the purchase of property by the National Presbyterian Reserve. The investigation has not yet been completed, and the case has not been brought before the court. The Ministry acts as a third party and provides all necessary documents for the investigation to be completed as quickly as possible and in an objective manner. As for your question about objects of cultural heritage, I inform you that the ministry is being implemented at the moment, at the request of the President of Ukraine, the Big Restoration program as part of the Grand Building program. The designated first line of objects, which will receive adequate government funding already this year: those who develop project design documentation, some objects, even for restoration work. I will be sure to convey your request to my colleagues and inform the minister of the need to pay attention to the objects you have identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u60	Good afternoon. Thank you for asking. Since May 27, 2021, Bill 2194 has entered into force. From this date, all agricultural lands, as well as water and industrial sites, except where local communities are located. Land-use documentation expertise has also been removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u61	Timothychuk Vladimir Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Zarski Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u63	Zhariah Maksim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u64	Good afternoon! Zarski Maksim, 202 District, Cherniewec Region. I have two questions that need to be dealt with. First question. During the June 2020 flood, damage was caused to the state gas crossing of the Jurov Banyls in the Visnicke District of Cherniewets. So far, there has not been a complete and correct elimination of this situation, which means that the villages of Banilla and Freedom Banillas are running out of gas. Additional funding and government intervention are needed. And the second question. The population of the 202 counties of the mountains is asked to consider the transfer of (use) forest funds of the former APC forests, which were owned by groups of agricultural enterprises. A positive decision will create conditions for the ability and self-sufficiency of rural communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u65	I beg you, Herman Valeriyovich, on the gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u66	On the air, let's do this, I don't see any problems. So in the line of work, we're ready to look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u67	Similarly, after the transfer of the forest fund, I also think that the work will be done and the answer will be given.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u68	Please, National Deputy Major Olena Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Katchuri Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u70	Alexander Kachura.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u71	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, my friends, it's a shame that in a country where people are outside the poverty line, the minister of social policy talked to almost empty parliament, because that's probably how parliamentarians are interested in social standards and living minimums in Ukraine. So my first question. Does the Ministry of Social Policy support the bill that we recently adopted to increase the living minimum? And the second question to Health Minister Laska. Please tell me that on my native sums, the watery compartment of the Connotapian Central Hospital, Michael Davidov, is closing. What is it? Is that an optimisation? What can be an optimisation on the health and life of our Ukrainian citizens? So I invite you, first of all, to the city of Konotap, or you can, for example, take your parents there. Because the 200,000 inhabitants of Konotap and the canopy hospital will remain within this, as it were, optimisation without help. Answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. Regarding the minimum of living. Decision-making on what the minimum of living is to correspond to the actual minimum is recorded in the Government's Action Programme. And it's not just the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance that we're all going to be working on these principles, it's our duty to the people. So my answer is that we support the increase in living minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. It's about cadaver hospitals. No one closes the hospital. The question is that there is a network of cadaveral hospitals and there are hospitals that work with basic packages. During our response to coronary disease, two major outbreaks in the fall of 2020 and in the spring of 2021, we increased the bed fund for the treatment of patients with coronary disease by more than 50 percent of the entire bed fund that exists in the health care facilities network. In order to provide both plan medical care and hospitalization plans and planned operations, we now need to shorten the network of hospitals with the definition of (not closing) hospitals where the patients will be hospitalized with COVID, and open and provide opportunities for hospitalization for people with other non-infectious diseases, as well as other non-infectious conditions. So in each particular case, we have considered and discussed for two weeks with health officials, with health departments, and we have identified a list of hospitals where patients with coronary disease are hospitalized at this stage in the first wave, and all other hospitals today need to renew the provision of planned medical care to other patients because we have stability, and under the circumstances, and we have the opportunity to provide medical care to all who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u74	Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u75	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure. The solution to the problem I have been addressing has been more than 10 years, including Ukraine's cooperation with Japan. This is a bridge across the South Bug River in the city of Mikolai, whose construction is a priority for the Ministry of Infrastructure according to the National Transport Strategy of Ukraine and a significant investment by our Japanese partners in Ukraine. However, in the past year, Ukrawtodor concluded an agreement with Interproject on the development of a project to build a bridge crossing through the South Bug, but since then there has been no real progress in the implementation of the project. I have two questions. When the Ministry of Infrastructure plans to present and discuss the construction project. And the second. When will the project begin directly, and when will the bridge be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u76	Dear Mrs. Galina, we will address this question urgently once more, but lastly, and we will give an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. Showtime's up. I'm exhausted for questions. Let us thank the distinguished officials for their work. Thank you. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u78	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". My dear colleagues, unfortunately, have not been able to ask the Minister of Social Policy, but this is very important for the whole country. And children are the future of Ukraine and the future of our nation, the genealogy of our nation. Some of the 126 facilities that were rehabilitated during the pandemic were only 25, out of 57 facilities that were healing in the Hersonian region -- only 13. Today the MPs from "Our Land" are prowling around in the bazaars. In the Chernigiv region, in Ninja, Prolysek didn't open either, it's also a health facility. The deputies from "Our Land" will also knock on the governor and all the doors to the Ministry. It's a no-brainer. In the Luhansk region, there was also no institution for the recovery of children during the pandemic. Please tell me, is anyone going to be involved in our country's children or not? Today is the Day of Respect for the Memory of Children Dead in Donbassa. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to children who have suffered from war today. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, Your Honor. Questions from the Trust Group and the Kabmin requirement: to intervene immediately, and from the hedge fund not only to build roads, the infrastructure is necessary, but the main thing is to take care of the future of our state, the children. The money from the hedge fund is sent to test children’s health camps and to give them a chance to rest, to heal our Ukrainian children. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Another statement was made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Insane Mariana Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u80	So it turns out that the temporary commissions, the temporary special commissions, were formed in the Supreme Council, but unfortunately, each time it was an instrument: one faction -- against another faction, one political issue -- against another political issue. Is the TSC a parliamentary instrument now? Is it an instrument of political struggle, is it an instrument of opposition, or is it an instrument of parliamentaryism? Perhaps it is finally worth making the TSC a tool for Parliament, a tool for our supervision and control, and a tool for how Parliament should respond adequately to socially important events? As you recall, we recently launched a TSC to investigate the actions of high - ranking owners against Ukraine. From this rostrum, one of the factions said that it was going to give TSC members -- it was Fatherland. It was, we waited, we didn't run the TSC, we delayed the launch of the TSC in order to make Parliament a tool. We were negotiating with two other factions, waiting to ensure a proportional representation on the interim commission of inquiry. Unfortunately, the situation has now developed in such a way that some factions are still not ready to see the TSC as an instrument of parliamentaryism, but as the head of the TSC, I am not losing hope. And please, I urge you to present your members today. If you submit, we will postpone the work of the TSC directly and we will vote on your representatives. And accordingly this TSC will be with maximum representation. If you don't say, well, you can figure it out, I think citizens can figure out what's interesting and what's the first priority: political struggle or truth. And also from this rostrum, I want to point out that in the TSC, directly the first resonance event is going to be the so-called question of the Wagnerians. Thank you for your attention and look forward to a real TSC Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an offer has come from all the MP factions and groups to change the order of our work today. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to cancel the break from 12:00 to 12:30, cancel today's "Victory" and then work today: by 12:30 there will be a vote, from 12:30 to 1:00, questions will be read out, and after that the plenary session will be closed. Is there no objection? None. I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:18:01]] For 277 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Detining of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens by introducing voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and payment of a one-time assembly to the budget. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to the rostrum. Who's going to insist on editing? Then it's on the table. Tymoshenko. Don't insist. It's a royal one. Cabachenko, 4rd row.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u82	Vladimir Kabachenko faction of the Fatherland. With Timoshenko, Julia Volodymyrna and I registered 35 rights, of which 10 were counted. We will insist on the rest now during the second reading, during the second reading of the bill. The problem with this bill is the following. Not only does it introduce a new one-time tax on citizens' assets, but it also leads to the actual legalization of the funds obtained in a criminal way. And according to the draft law, there are assets that are acquired on the basis of incomes that are hidden from taxation. To this day, we all realize that deliberate tax evasion is criminally punishable, and so I will report on all the adjustments related to this thesis during my next rights. And number four, please. It's about the correct title of the bill, we're cleaning up the word "congregation," and we're changing it into "state Customs." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u83	I'll bet on the vote number four of Cabachen. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:20]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 6 row, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u84	Amendment number 6, Kabachenko Volodymir. According to the law, the word "repeated budget meeting" and "repeated assembly" should be replaced by the words "special government duty" in the appropriate wording. And in this connection, make appropriate amendments to the Cabinet Decree on State Customs. The second element of this amendment is that the words "once a special voluntary declaration" should be replaced by the words "special declaration" in the appropriate wording. Why so? Because we're not talking about voluntary declaration right now. Not once does the text of the bill meet the word "voluntarily" as a legal fact. And that's when we talk. We all know "as the ship is called, so it sails." We have a very correct, very clear use of all the terms in this bill. I'm asking you to support this number six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u85	I'm betting on the 6th vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:40]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 7. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u86	According to paragraph 14.1, the words “once a special voluntary declaration” should be replaced by the words “special declaration”. Once again, the law does not provide for a single declaration, there are no terms in the law that were borderline for either one, or two, or three declarations, or any number. The law also does not clearly state that this declaration is to be made once, and that is why we have to use the legal terms correctly and correctly. Thank you very much. Edit, request, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u87	I'm betting on the vote number 7 Kabachenko, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:43]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 8. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u88	Unlike the previous three rights, which are more technical, this right here, it's very important. It is totally unclear why the committee did not support it, since this is the right thing to do, and it is expanding the list of objects of declaration. What is currently stipulated in the text of the bill? That the declaration is subject to the monetary assets of the individual, property, and property rights. And we're going to add, "and other assets that have been purchased at this cost with tax evasion." Thank you very much. Edit the request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u89	I'm betting on a vote of 8 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:47]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Frolov, don't insist. 12 orders, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u90	Changes are being made with the aim of aligning with the terminology of the Ukrainian Monetary and Monetary Transactions Act. Again, the correct use of terms. We're going to add, "remembrance notes and coins (coma) not removed from the official circulation." This is what the Ukrainian Law on Currency and Monetary Transactions states. Electronic money is available for circulation in Ukraine. Now, the text of the bill simply says "electronic money," but there's different electronic money, and not every one of them is officially registered in Ukraine today. I ask you to support the edit, I ask you to listen to this amendment, because it simply brings terminology to the Ukrainian Act on Currency and Monetary Transactions in force. Thank you very much. Edit the request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u91	I'm betting on the vote number 12 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:08]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The railroad doesn't insist. Frolow. Nicolanca, 18 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I'm going to have nine, I think I'm going to have a right to this bill. But I want to pay attention at all to the fact that this bill is discriminatory. And compared to all who are sitting in this room, to whom the state has allowed cash to be declared in its electronic declaration, the citizens of Ukraine who will be declared under this bill are prohibited. So my right is that this law needs to be made available to Ukrainian citizens, as well as to all the authorities, including the President and all the deputies, to declare cash without forcing them into Ukrainian banks, and to raise the threshold of this declaration from 400,000 dollars to 1.5 million. This is correct and it will at least bring them closer to the Gentiles who have set themselves other rules of life than they are now trying to make citizens. So I'd like you to support this exercise and allow them to declare cash as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u93	I'm betting on the vote number 18 Niklaenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:47]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 21st order, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u94	Thank you. In general, amnesty capitals were spent by tens of countries in various years, and some of these countries even had many amnesty capitals. We have both successful and completely failed examples. Successful examples were solely in countries with so - called indirect taxation, that is, the difference between the official income of the person and the expenses incurred during the specified period. In Ukraine today, there is no indirect taxation, so Ukraine will repeat the same experience as in Georgia when amnesty for taxation was introduced and only 8 people took the opportunity to tax their property. Actually, it's number 21. According to subsection 9.4, the words "once a special voluntary declaration" should be replaced by the words "special declaration" in the appropriate wording. I've already explained the logic of this amendment. Asking her to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u95	21 amendments, national deputies Timoshenko and Kabachenko, are put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:19]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 23. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u96	A technical amendment that provides a clearer and correct definition of what is meant by "special declaration." In general, nothing meaningful about this amendment changes the wording itself, so it gives a clearer legal definition so that in the future there is no different interpretation of the term "special declaration." Edit, request, support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u97	I am betting on the 23rd amendment of the people's deputies Timoshenko and Kabachenko. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:15]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 25. Dmitri Alexanderovich, don't you insist? Thank you. Next amendment 26, Timoshenko and Kabachenko. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u98	Thank you. And the change in wording, the content of the norm, remains the same. In the first section of subsection 9.4, the words "and (or) which have not been declared in breach of tax and monetary legislation, which is subject to enforcement control" should be replaced by the words "that have not been declared or are not reflected in mandatory tax reporting in violation of Ukrainian tax legislation". A clearer formulation of the same standard. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u99	I'll bet on the vote 26 of the amendment. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:22]] For-79 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u100	Black. Don't insist. Yanchenko. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Partially counted. Mother, 29th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, this bill was originally presented as a zero declaration, then an amnesty. And for the time being, we're looking at the room, the second reading, the voluntary one-time declaration. But in fact, if voluntary, there must be something and forceful about this subject. No one saw the Forced One in the bill room? I didn't see. It's not that the state doesn't get any effect, it just gets a bill that won't work in this state. My revision says the following is partially included, and my dates are included: this is from September 1st of this year until September 1st of 2022. In order to change the dates that are included, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u102	The 29th Amendment of the Mamka People’s Deputy is put to the vote. I want to remind you that it's partially accounted for. The National MP asks that it be taken fully into account. Therefore, the committee insists on leaving the account partially. I'll bet you a proposal from the National MP. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:32]] For-82
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u103	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Tymoshenko, 38. Railroad, what's the readout? 31st? 38 revisions, that's it. 31st, I said, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I personally support this bill, but what is the logic of entry into force? We now have a declaration starting on September 1, 2021. Why did we choose such a date? Because that's the date the Bureau of Economic Security should be working. But we see how much now tax police want to just change the chart and go completely into this organ. We see the Cabinet of Ministers changing its decision very often: either it subordinates it to the Ministry of Finance and then to itself. That's why, in order to ensure and avoid such risks, there's a proposal to move for a year and start a declaration, not since the 21st year, but since the 22nd year, when we're all confident that the Bureau of Economic Security has been working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u105	Thank you. I'll bet on the 31st vote of the Ironman. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:10]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Thirty-eight, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. It is proposed to change the term "gathering from a one-time special voluntary declaration" to the term "special government duty." And give again a clearer definition, which is what a special government tax means. "It's a tax that is self-declared by a declarant from the cost of assets included in a special declaration, at the rates set out in this subsection. The payment of a special government duty is a prerequisite for voluntary declaration of assets. The amount of the public duty paid shall be reflected by the declarant in the special declaration." Edited please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u107	I'll bet you 38 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:18]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Thirty-nine, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u108	The amendment refers to the improvement of the list of entities to which the declaration is made. And this is exactly what we had a heated discussion with the head of the tax committee. The proposed changes establish that any Ukrainian citizen, including those abroad, as well as foreigners, may benefit from the special declaration. It's a big deal. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u109	I'll bet you 39 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:14]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 42 law, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u110	Thank you for your attention. Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Paragraph 2 of Part Three corresponds to the Civil Code and the Family Code. This right allows minors and minors to submit such a declaration, though not personally. So we're talking about the possibility of adding declarations to children by parental consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u111	I'll bet 42 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:10]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next item. Fuck, 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u112	Dear reporter, distinguished national MPs! My 43, it's essentially rejected, except I don't understand why. It fully duplicates the text that was introduced to the second reading, which says that persons who, at the beginning of the period of a one-time special voluntary declaration, are minors, minors or incapacitated persons and are in full possession of other persons (including parents), or are persons whose efficiency is limited and care or care is placed over such persons. It's one-in-one with the text, it's included in the text, and it's rejected in the table. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u113	I'll bet you 43 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:29]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 46 law, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u114	Paragraph 3 of Part Three, on the one hand, reinforces the legal responsibility of public officials and, on the other hand, provides an incentive for voluntary declaration of income. That is, this right to make it possible for public individuals to also take advantage of this law and to make special declarations. Edit the request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u115	I'm betting on the 46th Kabachenko vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:15]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next line, Mamka, 47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u116	By my right in the law, I propose to expand and state what laws and what the candidates under which laws applied the declarations, but did not enter into office, were not appointed, but they submitted a declaration to the candidate. As of January 1, I propose that I be obliged to submit a declaration to a person authorized to serve as a state or local government in the order established by this law. This bill just says "law." What law, how? Are not all the declarants, not all of them, if the candidate has submitted a declaration several times? I think it's still necessary to introduce, expand, make a clarification, and then it'll be more clear, although what we mean in this inconvenient law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u117	I'm betting on a vote of 47 Mama's. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:41]] For-76 The decision is not taken. It's a Southern. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Fifty-two.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, thank you all. Dear colleagues, thank you all for trying to correct such an illiterate law. And 52 amendments apply to the following. You know that previous laws exempt individuals from taxation in the form of income in money or in other forms of property derived from the termination of a foreign legal person or foreign entity. So both the money and the assets. And we have in this draft middle class law paragraph 10, which says, if you haven't declared, you have this list of properties (one apartment or one house with a certain area, one car and so on). I propose to exclude this sub-paragraph, the reference to paragraph 10, because these are assets that are registered in Ukraine and for which a person has an absolute legal right. Why someone decided whether it's the president or someone else who should have only one apartment and can't have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u119	Ready to vote? 52 Jujanina’s version. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:23]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 53rd Amendment, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, about this amendment. This paragraph states that a natural person does not have objects from which taxes are not paid, and then the control body has the right to check and collect taxes. And I want a basic standard, article 102 of the Tax Code, to be applied to this special declaration, on the fact that more than 1,095 days cannot be tested. Now the rule of law seems to be that if any assets were even purchased earlier than 1,095 days, the tax authority might ask where you took them. During the committee discussion, that's exactly what happened, because if the members of the committee supported it, they still supported it, that only 1,095 days, tax and other days, no. Because it's important for them to ask people all the time that they took these assets, and that's going to apply to the middle class of Ukraine. Wealthy Zelenski and the committee head are already here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u121	I'll bet you 53 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:54]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 54th, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u122	Regulation 54. Paragraph 4, part three of subsection 9.4, reads as follows: "Those who have the right to use the right to a special declaration of assets, but who have not been used by it under this subsection, shall be considered as having no assets hidden from taxation or having assets, warehouses and volumes which do not exceed the limits defined in paragraph 10 of this subsection." So this amendment is talking about changing the approach from "reported by an asset-free body" to "considered as having no assets." Edit the request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u123	I'll bet you 54 Kabachenko's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:56]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Nicolanca, 59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u124	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I will continue to develop the thesis that I said during the first revision that I commented on. So once again, I want to draw my colleagues' attention to what is discrimination against this law of average Ukrainians compared to those who have made declarations as civil servants or national deputies. You and I are allowed to declare cash, and no one is obliged to take it to the bank. And to the average Ukrainians who are now asked to make a declaration, if their cash exceeds 400,000 dollars, they have to bring it to the Ukrainian bank. And first, we don't give any guarantees that this bank won't go bankrupt, and then it can take that cash. Second: once again, no one will compensate those earners who have earned either $20 or $30 a thousand in life that this money will not be lost in the banking system. So I suggest you raise it to 1.5 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u125	59. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:29]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Black, don't insist. The railroad, the Yanchenko, the alien. Nicolanca, 78 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u126	Colleagues, I understand everyone's used to pushing the yellow button. Think about it, you'll have to explain to people why you allow yourself to declare cash and not bring it to the bank, and people have to bring in and change dollars that someone went to Poland or Italy, made $20 or $30,000, so they didn't pay the apps, brought them home. And this law says you're honored, take them in your purse, take them to the bank and pay, except for the 5 percent that is stipulated under this law, so that if you want to take them back, because you don't trust the banking system of Ukraine, you still have a percentage for the withdrawal and the exchange rate. So my right is to clear out of the law that you can't declare the cash that is in the citizens of Ukraine. It's about the middle class, about his leftovers, and about the wage earners who don't make money in Ukraine, because they can't make money here. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u127	I'll bet you 78 votes. The committee is not supported. Please. Did you want to add something, committee? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, everyone can use tax amnesty to legalize the cash, but to do that, you have to put it in a bank, you don't have to change it into a bracelet, you have to put it in the bank in the currency that it is. And I'm very much asking you not to confuse those electronic declarations that are being filed with us and do not relieve us of the responsibility for tax evasion, with the voluntary declaration that is being filed within the framework of tax amnesty. These are completely different relationships and completely different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u129	I'll bet you 78 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:02]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Seventy-five, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Edited 75, it allows citizens to declare cash without having to invest it in a special account. I have great doubts that once the law is passed, citizens will all go to the banks and open these accounts. First of all, what is the purpose of this law: to control citizens' money or to fill the budget? If you fill out the budget, let's let people declare cash, that's the first time. And secondly, let's remember that when MPs submitted their zero declarations, they also indicated cash and no specs, and they didn't pay any percent. Some MPs who are now in the hall have shown a few billion dollars of their cash. So let's line up the citizens and just the officials so they can declare this cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u131	I'll bet you 75 Black. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:29]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 80, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u132	According to the text of section 6 of subsection 9.4, the words "one special voluntary declaration" should be replaced by the words "special declaration" and the words "one special voluntary declaration" should be replaced by the words "special declaration" should be replaced by the words "special declaration". The logic of these amendments has been discussed with you before. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u133	I'll bet you 80 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:20]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 87, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u134	87, we don't comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u135	88th?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u136	Neither did I.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u137	I didn't hear you say it again, please. Don't insist, okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u138	Next is my 97. Next line is 97.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u139	97 redundancies. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u140	97 is about two very important things. First of all, it's an opportunity to convert the currency into a payment of duty. And secondly, this is a clarification about the listing of documents that confirm the price of an asset. They give a clearer definition of terms, they cancel the legal uncertainty in the text of this amendment. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u141	I'm betting on a vote of 97, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:43]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 100 lashes, Cabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u142	Thank you. In paragraph 7 of paragraph 6.1. Part six, subsection 9.4. The words "is tax information" should be replaced by the words "is information which is subject to the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act." This is about protecting the information that is indicated in the special declaration, in accordance with the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you for your attention. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u143	I'll bet you 100. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:33]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 107, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u144	In 107 directions, it is a matter of excluding the position that close individuals of public opinion have no right to submit invalidated declarations. The committee’s amendments supported that invalidated declarations could not be attributed to the bill. So this is a logical extension of those lines that the committee has already supported. Thank you very much. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u145	I'll bet you 107 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:26]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 108 lashes, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak more to the law then to the end of the amendment. I would like to point out that a citizen of Ukraine who is currently a citizen without this law has the right to submit a declaration and to include all his assets, including money, without explaining where he took it, and to pay 5, 7, 9 percent. He has the right, not even the subject to be checked! For this, there are law enforcement authorities that, if there is a reason, report to the GDR, conduct investigations, then set up a tax evasion amount on a particularly large scale. The Law provided for release: If a person pays money in a proven way in the budget, he is relieved of his responsibility. With this amendment, I ask you to include in the body of the law, the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, which is fresh, which is new, it needs to be deciphered and clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u147	I'll bet you 108 Mama's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:57]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 126 right, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u148	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. According to the text of part seven of subsection 9.4. the words "gathering from a one-time special voluntary declaration" replace the words "special duty" with the corresponding differences. In general, the congregation is administrative, such as the tourist congregation, we cannot call taxes "congregation". So this amendment is perfectly logical, it is consistent with the logic of this bill. Asking her to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u149	I'm betting on the vote of 126 Kabachenko. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:51]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 128 law, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u150	Vladimir Kabachenko, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u151	Kabachenko. Turn on the hood.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u152	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. This right suggests the market value of an asset at the time of submission of the declaration, not the nominal value at the time of purchase of the asset. Logically, however, this complicates the process because it is necessary to evaluate the property. And secondly, this bill includes an estimate of the cost of bank metals if the asset was purchased with an indication of the number of bank metals. Thank you very much. Edit the request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u153	I'm betting on a vote of 128 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:58]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 133rd, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u154	We've already deleted the "individualization of the declaration" from the text of the bill. This same amendment is a logical extension of the delineation rule, and it excludes the position of self-assessment of the value of assets and provisions for depersonation of the declaration. If we don't accept this right with you, the law will be balanced. Thank you very much for your attention. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u155	I'm betting on a 133rd Kabachenko vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:49]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 135th, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u156	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. So, colleagues, this is about something else. This is an amendment to paragraph 7.2., which consists of two parts. In the first part, add sub-item "e", thereby allowing people to declare cash, and the second in order to put this cash in the bank, so it's the "State Saving Bank of Ukraine." Because today we are doing this so that the state can guarantee the maximum of these costs, because, thank God, the government has not yet cancelled the 100% state-owned deposit in the Savings Bank of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. And if you want the citizens to get their money from under the mattress and take it into the banking system of Ukraine, let the state take the guarantees of return if anything happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u157	Thank you. I'll bet you 135 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:03]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line is 140, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u158	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. This sets a fixed rate of 5 percent for all assets. To this end, in section 8 of subsection 9.4, the first paragraph reads: "The amount of a special duty is 5 per cent of the value of the declared property, unless otherwise determined by this subsection." Subparagraphs 8.1, 8.3., delete. Thank you for your attention. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u159	I'm betting on a vote of 140 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:01:03]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 143 redundancies, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, number 143. I propose to reduce the interest rate to be applied on a one-time voluntary declaration for assets located in Ukraine from 5 per cent to 3. If we want to increase our government budget and increase the number of people who have declared their assets for the first time, we need to increase the opportunity for these people and increase the number of people who want to declare themselves. So I'm proposing from 5 to 3 to increase the circle of people who want to declare themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u161	I'm betting on the vote of 143 Black. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:02:12]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 144th. Don't you insist? Nicolanca, 149th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u162	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I'd be happy to give my colleague Black the opportunity to sound my writings because they're on the same page, but they're getting a little bit more because part of the people's "slaves" trusts their fellow tribesmen more. But, my friends, I'm not going to be the real deal anymore, I'm going to talk about the law. In general, the law was aimed at restoring billions of legitimate businesses from Ukraine as part of tax evasion (this was the idea of the law) and filling Ukraine’s budget. What did he become? He turned into a law on extra taxation of the middle class of Ukrainians who remained, and the employees who, after earning money abroad, brought them in and did not declare them. Consider whether you need such a law and whether you want to receive additional greetings from all the earners and the middle class. I've got everything. You can't keep doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u163	I'll bet you 149 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:03:44]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. That's 156, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, there are examples both in Ukraine and in the international arena that some nations have launched a zero declaration in order for all citizens to submit a declaration on property, funds, all the other things that are valuable, defined by the criteria, after which the state has already had a point of reference in controlling illicit wealth, in terms of acquisition and wealth and everything else, then the responsibility has come. We have a strange declaration: or the state service, for the time being, is a voluntary one-time declaration, but we're not going to make the end of it, and we're going to make a zero declaration. Let's lower the declaration rate already, if there is, for non-residents from 9 percent by 7. The smaller the rate, the more people will use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u165	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u166	Dear colleague, thank you for your offer, and I advise you to use your advice carefully to read the text of the law. During the first six months of tax amnesty for foreign assets, we set the rate, we offer 7 percent, 9 percent in the second half. So your revision is actually counted. But according to the Rules, it is reflected here as being rejected. It's reflected here as a deflection, because the other bit of text is technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u167	I'm putting to the vote 156 amendment of the People's Deputy Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee suggests that we turn it down, as we have heard from Gregory Mikolaiovich. So please identify and vote. [[12:06:04]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 157, Nicolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u168	So, colleagues, I'd like to compare how much a person has to pay for money that is in Ukraine and not in Ukraine. Let me give you a simple example. Galina Ivanovna, from Volin County, works in Poland, arranged for a nurse. She opened the bank account, put the money there. And then when she wants to declare, they tell her, and if they're in a Polish bank, She'd like to work here, she's just not being paid or threatened by COVID, or anything else, you know what's going on in medicine. They say no, if your money's there, pay 7 percent. If you bring them to Ukraine in a bag, put them in a bank, pay 5 percent. My job is to balance 5 percent in both Ukraine and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u169	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u170	Dear colleague, it's such an interesting story about a man-worker who put money in a bank abroad. But that's a little bit different. It's about what we want and insist that one of the purposes of this amnesty is to return the funds that have been spent abroad and are now staying with our residents. For this reason, 7 or 9 percent of the funds that remain abroad are for this purpose. For the costs that they will pay back to Ukraine and declare 5 percent, interest is 5 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u171	Thank you. You showed the luxury, which means I'm not putting this on. I bet, don't I? Okay. I put to the vote 157 the amendment of the National MP, Nikolayenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:08:05]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 164th Nikolainka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u172	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. We had a wonderful discussion, at least here with the head of the committee, that's good. So I understand the good goal of bringing the middle class of workers back to Ukraine, who are very afraid of this difference between 5 and 7 percent. Unfortunately, however, Ukraine’s tax system, Ukraine’s security system, Ukraine’s health system, is too large for these people to vote with their feet and leave. So if we create additional problems for these citizens and not encourage them at least to pay and legalize in Ukraine, they'll just come out of Ukrainian citizenship. And then I want to see what you're going to do to fill the economy for which your Prime Minister is going to create a fictitious 500,000 jobs. You can't support us. Thank you. I don't insist on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u173	I'm betting on the 164th vote. Don't insist, okay. Mom, 170 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, it's very nice to hear that someone doesn't read, but when the table is rejected, and the reporter tells us that it's kind of taken into account, yes, but the meaning of the word "refused" doesn't change, then there's a problem. The problem is deeper. I don't think this law will work if we don't hear the statistics, the reasons we want to get this bill. First. In my opinion, first of all, this is a law that's written under someone who wants to do something, and you just have to tell them who's comfortable with it. Why? Because we'd like to know everything: and where the money came from, and where it's at, and what the number of it is, and what the law enforcement agencies have, and we have tax evasion, and the legalization of the costs (209ths) obtained by criminal means, but not more. Please place your order on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u175	I'll bet you 170 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:10:52]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 178.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u176	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. So, colleagues, let's try again, maybe we can. I suggest if you want to take money to the middle of the class so badly that they can declare that the bank is not a private bank of one of the personalities we know or a foreign bank, that it is a Ukrainian State Savings Bank, where the state of Ukraine guarantees investors repayments in case anything happens. What is wrong with that? Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u177	I'm betting on the 178th edition of Nikolainka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:11:53]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 182, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which can become the law, is all about expanding the possibilities for the private sector of private banks. This, on the one hand, is very good. But he does not place the responsibility of private banks for preserving this property, which is essentially already accounted for, is paid the third or fourth time a tax demanded by the State. My paper says a change in one word. It is necessary for the State, if it wants to be trusted by Ukrainian citizens (only by the power of the state when a Ukrainian citizen trusts the state, not the private sector), to include one word: "State banks". The priorities of the state should be in state banks, none of which are in these banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u179	I'm betting on the vote number 182 of Moms. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:13:28]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 184 Mama's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to set priorities a little bit. That's the law we're going to pass, that's exactly how it's going to be done. Remember, five years ago, under the brand of Gontareva, there was a "bankopad" called, all the banks checked in, the Banks Act introduced, no longer should we, and the citizens of Ukraine, including the bankers, have no right. And for the time being, we're going to the same rakes again: private banks again, again without guarantees, absolutely nothing. It's necessary for the state, if it gives any option, someone came up with something in the morning: give up the money you'll pay taxes on the government's income, and we won't protect them. It's not an option, it's just a wealth and an affair at the level of the state. Keep me posted. We put the category of state banks in priority and will be accountable to the citizens of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u181	I'll bet you 184 on Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:14:59]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 186 Mama's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u182	This law essentially gives us the authority of banks: where the bank places the funds, where the funds go, where they go, and everything else. But there are no changes to the Banking and Banking Act. They will use those powers, those functions and those of the Master Code, all others, and the Tax Code that currently exist. Because my point was that if you change the banking system, that's one story. And to whom citizens, including those involved in the voluntary special declaration, need to trust the state only in the person of the state banks. Because all banks, to a maximum, there are more than 30 percent with foreign capital. We'll draw money from abroad and invest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u183	I'm betting on a vote of 186 Mama's. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:16:31]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next item. Nina Petrovna, do you insist? Firecracker, step away, please. Ninety-two.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u184	Dear Ukrainians, I am now asking you more to make sure that those who do not submit this declaration, as Mr. Greensky has determined, can only have a certain list of assets. So Zelensky thinks that all the property you have and are registered in government registers is not supported by the money you pay your taxes on. Only apartments with a total area of not more than 120 square meters, buildings with 240 square meters, 1 car and other assets — gold ornaments and everything else — will be considered to be confirmed. Since when does the President decide that the assets purchased, which have been registered, I repeat, officially in Ukraine, have been purchased for funds from which taxes have not been paid? They can actually come to you at any time and ask: please explain where you got the money to buy these assets. Or you'll go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u185	192, Jujanina's. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:18:08]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Mother, 198 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, if the state is already giving an option that they can't explain, but they want to increase the burden of the budget coming, I'm still saying that we shouldn't put the minimum criteria that don't apply to voluntary declaration. This law lays down the criteria of 400,000 dollars. Everybody knows the increase in pensions by one bracelet a year? Everybody knows. At least 20 bucks a day, 20 percent inflation. And we all understand that this 400,000 dollars in just one year is going to be equivalent to buying and turning into an 800,000. Well, we have to clear this limit or increase it and give more tax terms to people who want to take advantage of such a weak law with less or more criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u187	I'll bet you 198 on Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:19:45]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next edition of Nikolainka, 202.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u188	Thank you. It's the Fatherland faction. The last amendment for today is mine under this law. So it has already been suggested by many colleagues that the minimum threshold should be raised, today it is legally defined as 400,000 dollars that are not taxed. We're suggesting that given the exchange rates today, that a lot of the money you want to get involved is not money from big oligarchs or big business, and that's middle-class money and wage earners, that $15,000 -- at today's rate is a very small amount. So we suggest that the untaxed minimum that Mr. Hetmants so wants to put into his budget is raised to one and a half million, and that would be more fair, at least to those people who have been able to make that money in such difficult times with such a tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u189	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 202 Nicolanka. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:21:10]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Knazevitch. Don't insist. Son of a bitch, 208.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u190	My paper says it's a voluntary one-time thing. See: A voluntary one - time special. Why special, no one can explain the procedure first, which is special because it does not exist. The paper says one thing, that housing is a total area that does not exceed 120 square meters, and this law allows us not to declare it voluntarily. But in the real estate market of the apartment all 121 square meters, 121 square meters, 121.2 square meters per actual test, the person bought 120 squares, 119 square meters, and actually got 121 square meters, and so much. Let's go up by 30 meters to make it 150 square meters, and then let them figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u191	I'll bet you 208 on Mama's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:22:44]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 212 Mama's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u192	The following is the case with housing. The bill proposes a residential building, which is registered in the established order in Ukraine, with a total area not exceeding 240 square feet [240 sq m], or an incomplete housing. 240 square meters. I understand the authors' inspiration about reducing some amount, but no, I've never heard of it: (a) what category of people here stole money, put it in their basement, and the state gives them an option to legalize and build a house, notice, a nonliving area of 240 square meters, and a total area of 240 square meters. It's going to be up to the middle class. I'm going to increase it to at least 300 square meters.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u193	I'll bet you 212 on Mama's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:24:16]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 215 lashes, Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u194	I do not understand why nonliving objects, which should in fact be declared voluntarily, have 60 square feet [60 sq m]. I mean, if you have a small store, a kiosk, you have to declare it. But you're counting, is that right? 60 squares? And the 120th apartment is not to be declared voluntarily, and the 240th house is also to be declared. So, who are we strangling? Who are we strangling: the FOPs? FOP's. Well, we have to work out the criteria for everyone. If we are already making such a decision, it should be balanced, and priority should be given to the benefits that we should declare 60 square meters for the benefit of those who have obtained funds illegally and those who carry out entrepreneurial activities. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u195	I'll bet you 215 Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:25:50]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Mom, 270 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u196	Well, this right corresponds to article 47 of this law, which can't be declarants. Please put her to the vote. But I want to say about this bill. Well, believe me, let's put in the Transitional Positions that if someone doesn't comply with this law and there's no increase in the budget, someone has to answer: either the author of the schizophrenic bill, or the head of the committee, or the national MPs. Well, laws are required for people to protect their rights. If legal relations are not violated, there is no need for law. We replace the work of law enforcement agencies with illegal laws. This law will not make any sense to law enforcement or to Ukrainian citizens, but rather to increase the budget. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u197	I'll bet you 270 Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:27:28]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 311 Mama's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u198	273rd is Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u199	Then 279 is the command of the Most High.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u200	Regulation 273. The law proposes that the article of the Tax Code be supplemented with the following: The disclosure of information by officials of central executive authorities may not necessarily be intentional, so it should be specified that if such information is disclosed as a result of official negligence, there is also responsibility. In addition, the granting of access to third parties who do not have the right to own information should also be identified as one of the reasons for taking responsibility. It is important to specify the types of responsibilities to which the guilty person may be drawn. Please put to the vote, 273rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u201	It's considered editorially. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[12:28:53]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 311, Mama. Then give me a list of which you will insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a question and my amendment to the Banking and Banking Act to change and determine, if the State has already taken precedence, it already gives an additional option, you already agree, just so that there is a law that will not work, you should give this priority to saving these funds to the state banks. People will somehow raise confidence in government institutions, government banks, the state itself, and at least increase the implementation of this short law. I would ask you, National MPs, to vote in favour of the change in this article and the inclusion of one word, the choice of state position, state priorities, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u203	I'll bet you 311 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:30:42.]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the request announcement. Now there's going to be an announcement, then there's going to be queries, and 8 of them need a vote because they're going to the President of the State. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 60 with the prime - badge I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional inter-party association "Ukraine Kuwait: Friendship, Respect, Interaction". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kovalova, was elected head of this association.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u205	Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u206	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, 117 parliamentary inquiries were made during the calendar week. Of these: to the President of Ukraine – 8, to the authorities of the Supreme Council – there is not at all, to the Cabinet of Ministers – 33, to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies – 55, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership – 21. Of the past plenary weeks, 82 parliamentary requests have remained unannounced. A total of 199 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to enquiries with the President of Ukraine. So it is an open-ended vote that supports Geo Leros's request to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of personal sanctions against TV "Quartal 95", his owners and beneficiaries for the sale of rights for the broadcasting of the franchise of the Program "Lega Laughter", the series "Rodicchi", "Papic" and the series "100,000 minutes together", whose premiere is scheduled for 7 June 21st on the Russian channel "STS", which since May 20th on the sanctions lists of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, which is the promotion and legalization of individual areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region against Ukraine, in the interests and on the side of the aggressor country, which threatens national security. People's deputies, please, identify and vote. [[12:33:20]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, there is an open-ended vote in support of Galina Vasilchenko's request to the President of Ukraine to implement legislation on the decommunization and renaming of judicial bodies. Please vote. [[12:33:58]] For 175 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:34:22]] For 202 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended vote in support of Bogdan Kitzak's request to the President of Ukraine to rebuild a 60-bedroom apartment building for soldiers on the street of the Mihei people's brothers, 2 in the city of Berdichev. Please vote. [[12:34:58]] For 282 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:23]] For 295 Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Oksana Savichuk's request to the President of Ukraine for the deprivation of Ukrainian citizenship by Ukraine's illegally elected national deputy Aksionova Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please vote. [[12:35:58]] For-170. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:36:22]] For 185 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended vote in support of Victoria Wagner's request to the President of Ukraine for the introduction at the national level of a professional holiday – Military Medic's Day. Please vote. [[12:36:52]] For 281 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please, we're on our way. [[12:37:16]] For 278 Decision taken. It is an open-ended vote to support Alexia Kucherenk's request to the President of Ukraine for failure to comply with Presidential Decree No. 874/2019 and the need for State financial control measures at all Naftogaz companies. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:37:55]] For 226 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:23]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Wonderful. A roll-call vote is under way in support of Alexi Movcan's request to the President of Ukraine for the assessment and application of measures for the inaction of officials in eliminating the consequences of the illegal cessation of electricity supplies to residents of the village of Bondari and Jerivko Kremenchuck district of Poltava. Please be sure. [[12:39:09]] For 240 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:39:32]] For 264 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Chigoza, Fedena, and others). A total of 43 national deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the expulsion from the sanctions list of members of the fighting, the fighters of the volunteer battalion named Sheikh Mansour. Please be sure. [[12:40:12]] For 203 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, we're voting. [[12:40:37]] For 224 The decision is not taken. [[12:40:43]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to your questions. So Irina Konstankevich's request to Prime Minister of Ukraine to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Michael Bondar to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on issues of local self-government and proposals by the heads of the Lviv Group on land issues, balance and budget and changes to legislation. Michael Bondar to the head of the Western Interregional Administration of the Ministry of Justice on the problem of the state registration of municipal property rights for a residential community in the person of the Red Cross City Council. Alexia Kovalova to the Attorney-General on the possible illegal actions of officials and officials of the Kyiv District State Administration regarding the illegal alienation of land and the falsification of documents. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to ensure the financing of the work related to the completion of the reconstruction of the Colossian Stadium property complex in Tatarbunara. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective response measures to prevent the closure of a specialized medical facility. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Attorney General’s Office for the violation of reasonable terms of criminal investigation. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Kyiv City Public Administration on the use of effective measures to provide adequate services to residents in the area of housing and utilities. Mikoli Galuchka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the calculation of the pensions of military personnel. Groups of National Deputies (Bakumova, Pavluk and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the introduction of benefits and subsidies to persons with disabilities as a result of the war. Sergey Demchenka to the head of the Dnipropetrov district administration for the long-term capital repair of Sursko-Litov village secondary school in the Dniproprov district of Dnipropetrov region. Group of National Deputies (Zharchenka, Koravchenkova, Kriworukina) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the extension of the National Health Service of Ukraine's contracts for public health services under the Program of Medical Guarantees with the Crimson City Hospital No. 7. Anastasia Lashenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the possible misconduct of the management of the company "STARTA-KYEV". Anastasia Lashenko to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the violation of the rights of Agropromholding employees of "STARTA-KYEV". Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the full activities of the Novograd Volin Military Hospital. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of unbreakable hot water supply in the cities of the New Division and the Novoyavorsk region of Lviv. Alexander Zavávnević to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for clarification regarding the inclusion of Pat "Chercasioblenergo" in the list of small privatization objects in the 21st year. Alexander Danuci to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the use of measures to preserve the placement of Medical Faculty No. 2 and the International Medical Faculty of the Donetsk National Medical University in Kropivnitsky. Sergey Ljowczyn to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the increase in the amount of State budget subsidies for the construction of travel in the city of Vishnýv. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure Ukraine's national security through the use of new missile defence systems. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the establishment of a permit to enter Ukraine for foreigners and Ukrainian citizens with a negative test for Covid-19 antigen. Anton Polakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial security for the activities of the District Councils. Anton Polakov to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine on financial security for the activities of the District Councils of Ukraine. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 277 of 29 February 2021 on additional arrangements for the organization of payments and the delivery of pensions and cash assistance at the place of actual residence of recipients in the cities of Ukraine. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the finalization of projects from restoration, conservation, reconstruction of cultural heritage in the framework of the Great Restoration project and the provision of adequate funding. Natalia Pippa to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the complex financial position of Lviv’s casino experimental enterprise of means of movement and prostheticism. Natalia Pippa to serve as director of the Lviv City Council’s construction department for the census and boundaries of Lviv’s parks. Oksana Savichuk to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures to restore the railway line in the area of Higher and Galic in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for further information on the new jobs created in Ukraine from 1 May 2020 to 1 May 2021. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Attorney General for information on the state of investigation of criminal conduct violated by the abuse of power or official position, which has caused serious consequences in connection with the construction and operation of the Kanov Helicopter Course in the Cherkas region. Oksana Savichuk to the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine on the use of response measures to protect the rights of workers in the Ukrainian State Engineering and Technology Institute of APC Transport in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Groups of National Deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) To the Kyiv City State Administration on the use of effective measures to provide adequate services to residents in the area of housing and utilities. Alexander Tkachenka to the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the provision of information on the use of forest land. Igor Negulewski is acting as Head of State Institution Dergidrography, Acting Director of the State Enterprise Sea Trade Port South, Acting Director of the State Enterprise Mariopolski Maritime Trade Port, Acting Head of State Enterprise, Administration of Ukrainian Maritime Ports, Director of State Enterprise Ishmael Sea Trade Port, concerning the provision of information. Igor Negulewski is acting as Head of the Head of State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, temporarily acting Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Work, Chief State Health Officer of the Mikolai Region, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Exceptional Situations, Private Shareholder Society of Kiev-Dniprovsky Inter-branch Industrial Rail Transport Company. Groups of National Deputies (Grischenko, Pusherenko and others) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Malian City Head, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the illegal (rider) seizure of the land areas of the reformed KSP "Ukraine" in the Malin OTG of the Žitomir Region. Sergey Rudika to the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for clarification on the use of the simplified system, accounting and reporting by a natural person entrepreneur (FOP). Alexia Silent to the Head of the State Geology Service and the nadr of Ukraine to provide information on the use of the PRAT "Poltavian GZK". Groups of National Deputies (Ion, Heratchenko, and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Veterans of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the immediate resolution of issues of technical and other means of rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, children with disabilities and other separate categories of the population (ATO/OOS participants). Julius Ovzinikovov to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General for the criminal conduct of the "Derivljanski" nature reserve. The Gennady of Watzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Winnitz District State Administration, for the use of effective measures to ensure the financing of health facilities in the Winnitsky region, which have not entered the list of hospitals and are designated as reception and treatment facilities for patients with COVID - 19 severe respiratory disease and with regard to location characteristics, require additional financial support. Hennady Watzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community and Territory Development, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, the Vinick district government administration on the use of effective measures to ensure funding for health, education, culture and sports institutions in the Winnick region. Sergia Dunayeva to the head of the Lysican City Civil and Military Administration of the Severerodonet region of Lugansk Region, head of the Severerodonet City Military and Civil Administration of the Severerodonet region of Lugansk region for information. Mikoli Kucher and Larissa Bilozer to the head of Kyivo-Svetoshin State Tax Inspectorate, Chief of State Tax Administration in the Kyiv Region, Chief of State Tax Administration in the Lviv region, Chief of State Tax Administration in the Sumskie District, on the collection of income (wage) for the citizen of Narusevich N.O. enterprises with which she did not have a working relationship that caused the subsidy to be withdrawn. Larissa Bilozer and Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of Cabinet of Ministers Order No.277 of 29 March 2021 and for the availability of pension payments to all citizens, regardless of their place of registration, of actual residence. Larissa Bilozer and Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the suspension of the mandatory requirement for a certificate of accessibility to contract medical facilities with the National Health Service of Ukraine. Dmitry Nalotova to the Poltava City Head for providing information on the state of housing for those who need to improve housing conditions and the number of housing they have built in Poltava. Alexia Zmerenecki of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the basis of the calculation of tax liabilities. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on rules of professional ethics in competition Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney-General for the long-term incursion of pre-trial investigations into land ownership through free privatization. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on evidence of the prosecution of disciplinary responsibility. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to public order violations in the city of Irpin. Marina Bardinau to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the State's guarantees of enforcement. Roman Lozinski to the Friends of the City for the elimination of conflicts with Ukrainian legislation in draft regulations and regulations on standing committees of the Friendly City Council. Olga Saladuha to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the inclusion of the specialty "Sports Medicine" in the "Draft Order of the Ministry of Health "On the Approval of the Regulations on Internet". Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the State Institute of the Kyiv City Laboratory Centre of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection on violations of acceptable sanitary standards. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of effective response measures to return to Ukraine a minor child who was illegally exported. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Odessa City Council on the use of urgent measures to eliminate the emergency situation in the city of Odessa. Groups of national deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the National Police of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the resident of the city of Kiya Odessa of Gavril Krivas regarding the possible misconduct of police officers. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the National Police for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funding for the construction of a school in Kwasa. Vasil Pétovka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the regulatory review of the situation with regard to the monopoly on the provision of individual banking services. Tetjana Placzkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to focus the Government's activities on supporting rural areas and agricultural producers. Tetjana Plačkowa to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to channel the funds provided for in the State budget under the National Development Fund programme to finance the work on the cultural heritage of municipal property. Dmitry Kostuk to the Attorney General for the pre-trial investigation of the disposal of more than 20 million dollars allocated from the budget for the construction of barracks in Novogradi Volinski Zitomirsk region and the city of Kremencucci Poltava region. Maxim Dirdin to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the list of funding arrangements for the 21st year of health care. Aunt Platcheva to the Velikodolin village head about the improper consideration of the MP’s appeal and the obligation to provide the requested information and documentation. Jaroslava Dubnevich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Rector of Lviv National University of Veterinary Medicine and Biotechnologies of Stéphane Gczycký’s name for the transfer of housing from state property to municipal property. Jaroslava Dubnević to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the road to the general use of the local value of S141011 Šegini - Bolanovici. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure the functioning of a preschool institution. People’s Deputies ( Tuckenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the resolution of urgent issues related to the execution of a court decision. Jury Kamelchuk to the Red Cross City Head, director of the Lviv District Attorney’s Office for the improper performance of tasks and duties as head of the Capital Building and Investments Department of the Red Cross City Council. Tetjana Grishenko to the Attorney General, temporarily acting as Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of officials during the transfer of land from the state-owned DP "Ukraine" and granting permission for the development of projects to the Land Administration for the permanent use of the ATO Foundation for Persons with Disabilities. Alexander Jurchenka to the head of the Gaussian District in Kiev State Administration, Kiev City Head, for the provision of incomplete information on public procurement conducted in 2020 - 21 by the Government Administration in Kiev, which makes it impossible to properly execute the parliamentary powers of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine on the ninth call. Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine for possible attempts to eliminate the "Gazpostachservis" T.O. from NAK Naftogaz's debt. Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk to the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals against harming the interests of the State in carrying out the procedure for withdrawing the PAT "Radical Bank" from the market. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General for a message by Mr Schneufler O.S. about possible criminal offences. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the detection and opposition of the withdrawal of PAT's "Radical Bank". Groups of National Deputies (Mandia, Stefanchuk and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the non-admission of the use of state financial controls for political purposes. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District Administration for the repair of the emergency and dangerous bridge between the villages of Andriyuk and Razal on the White Stack River and the road of Corchin - Razal. Michael Bondar to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the transfer of land from the state to the municipal property of the Radehiv City Council of the Lviv Region. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the regulation of the standard of the duration of the annual basic leave for teaching staff of the Vocational and Technical Education Centre. Galina Vasilchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for judicial decisions and the prevention of fines for social protection bodies. Sergey Ljowczyna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative social consequences of the increase in debt from wages. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the payment of the financial debt of the Zitomirthorf DP. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Ukrainian minister of health for medical care to Orphan Smolar Oleg Valeriovich, who lives in the Oleuvian OTH. Anatolya Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending the legal and regulatory provisions in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Settlement of Certain Issues in the Field of Housing and Utilities, No. 1060-IX from 3 December 2020. Mr. Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a national fire safety support programme in Ukrainian education institutions and the provision of the necessary funds for the implementation of the measures. Dmitry Black to the head of the National Police of Ukraine regarding the investigation into the negligence of private stockholder SPECBUDMONTAG21 during the implementation of the project entitled "Capital repairs covered the municipal institution "Lichiv Foundation for General Secondary Education I-III degrees of the Lichov Village Council". Dmitry Black to the Attorney General, Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for conducting an investigation into the avoidance of payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance by the utility "Manufacturer of Housing and Maintenance Association" of the City Council of Yellowwater.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-04-m0.u207	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you all.
