ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I remind you that registration takes place by pressing the sensor button and pressing the green button, the first button on the left. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:59]] There are 160 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, this is Andrew Rostislavovich Boblach's birthday. [[Applause]] I wish you colleagues and yourself success, victory, achievement, all the best! Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, attends the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I remind you that in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, on Friday at 10 a.m., we spend an hour of questions to the government. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about the implementation of the vaccination plan for the population of Ukraine against COPID-19. I remind you of the order in which to deal with this issue: within 20 minutes – a speech by the Minister of Health, then up to 21 minutes – questions from MPs and groups (1 minute – to question, 2 minutes – to answer), then 20 minutes – questions from the National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Okay. U.S. Health Minister Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov is invited to the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Since March 2020, it has been a year since our country woke up in a new reality. Then the first patient was diagnosed with a coronary disease, and we fought the world pandemic. It was not a secret of the possibilities we had at the time: our medicine was at the brink of collapse. Chronic neglect of the interests of doctors, residual financing, and unthinkable reforms have put medicine on the brink of survival. The system was based solely on the enthusiasm of its cause and the people for whom the Hippocratic oath given to the Ukrainian people was not merely a promise but a life principle. The most needed was masks and antiseptics. The bed, equipped with oxygen, could be numbered on the fingers as well as the vital apparatus for artificial ventilation of the lungs. At the cost of the incredible efforts of the Department of Health, the entire government, our epidemiologists, scientists and virologists, at full worth, we were able to do the impossible: restore the health system and protect the people. In the shortest term, we reclassified to treat patients with COVID 542 medical facilities. At the beginning of the epidemic, there were only 12,000 700 suspended beds for treatment of patients with COVID-19. Mimi has increased this fund to 69 thousand 500. Only 3,000,400 beds were found on paper, in reality, and less. The state is now equipped with oxygen. 59,000,471 beds. More than 6,000 artificial lung ventilators have been put into service, and the test capability has increased from 200 tests per day at the beginning of the pandemic to 80,000 today, 400 times, and this is just a PPL test. In order to counter the coronavirus and reduce the stress on the health system, we have developed and implemented a whole set of management measures. The first total spring bowdown gave us an expensive time to prepare a medical system for a long game, because we understood that the world pandemic was not a problem for one or two years. Hard quarantine is an effective tool in the fight against COVID. However, they completely stop economic processes in the country and hurt, primarily in small and medium - size business, and self - employed population categories. The fight against the coronavirus was not meant to lead to economic collapse and required a compromise that would allow the economy to work, and the medical community to control the spread of the disease. This compromise was developed by the Ministry, together with epidemiologists and scientists, on an adaptive quarantine strategy. Adaptive quarantine is a complex algorithm for the interlinked management of anti-epidemiological and economic decisions that can control the spread of the disease and not break socio-economic ties. One of the main elements of this strategy is the division of the country into quarantine zones, which, depending on the situation, are introduced or eliminated in socio-economic or economic areas. We can say that our strategy worked and produced tangible results. We set ourselves up to preserve as many Ukrainian lives as possible, and we do so. Our country has 34 places at the rate of death in Europe. We lost three times that of Britain in a year, twice that of Poland, Italy, or Spain. It's not just numbers -- it's hundreds and thousands of saved lives of our citizens. The second wave of the Corona last fall forced us to adjust our plans. We put in place a so-called quarantine of the weekend that allowed for the breaking of contacts, the transmission of the virus, and the containment of the disease, without imposing severe quarantine restrictions, such as curfews, such as those imposed by the authorities of France, Belgium, Greece, and so on. The winter quarantine, the severe quarantine of January this year, we were able to delay the third minute of the coronavirus and prepare the country for a major challenge -- the national implementation of the national vaccination plan. I emphasize that throughout our struggle with the coronavirus, we have had to conquer the enemy of the inside -- the so-called COVID collaborators, who have tried to discredit the command work of the entire government, and the ministries in particular. I have repeatedly stated that I am ready for professional discussions and constructive criticism, I emphasize, constructively. Because COVID is our common trouble to deal with. Instead, I meet on television, in the media, and in social media, a lot of manipulations and honest false information. These are myths that some politicians promote in order to obtain electoral points and break the vaccine campaign, sometimes promoting the interests of other nations. Their only goal is to destroy the acquisitions of our doctors and to sow panic and despair among people. Of course, the scale of this treachery is already crossing all the limits allowed, and I urge you to resist these Collaborators of COVID by arming yourself with factking and reliable data. The real blow to the COVID collaborators was our successful negotiations with vaccine manufacturers and their delivery to Ukraine. The instigators called the vaccine "generic", the Indian forgery, and so on. AstraZeneka (Covishield) is a British-Swedish company with scientists at Oxford University. It's quality, effective and has proven effectiveness at 70-80 percent. And this is confirmed by all stages of clinical research published in field scientific journals, such as Nature Research or The Lancet. AstraZeneka is released in seven companies around the world: Europe, South Korea, and India, China. Our AstraZeneka (Covishield), which we brought to Ukraine, was manufactured in the power of the world giant, the world's largest vaccine producer, the Serum Institute in India. This plant produces vaccines for 140 countries on the planet. 65 percent of the children who live on our globe are vaccinated with vaccines produced by the Serum Institute, at least once. By the way, the Canadian government has officially registered Covishield and has already delivered the first batch of 500,000 doses to the country for its citizens. This information is readily available on Canada’s official government portals. In total, Canada has contracted 2 million doses of AstraZeneka, and Britain will soon deliver 10 million doses of AstraZeneka (Covishield). Literally the day before yesterday, British Ambassador Melinda Simmons on Twitter confirmed that AstraZeneka (Covishield) is exactly the same, it is the same vaccine. According to our statistics, which we already have in our country, for the 10,000 vaccines we have, there are only 126 minor allergic reactions, virtually all of them in light form, that's only 1.2 percent. During the course of the vaccination, there was only one case that required the supervision of doctors. But in a few days, the vaccine was released home in a perfectly healthy condition. This is a medical worker who immediately began to perform his duties the next day — to rescue Ukrainian citizens. So I want to ask COVID Collaborators, which of these other things do you miss? The global pandemic has also made adjustments to the terms of the licensing and use of vaccines. Now in the world, all Coronavirus vaccines are registered and used in emergency procedures. Convinced that we should reject bureaucratic cassualism and lead, creating all the necessary conditions for timely delivery and registration of vaccines in Ukraine. Therefore, for the purchase of additional doses of drugs to combat COVID-19 by the Ukrainian government, appropriate changes have been developed to the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, which shortens and increases the procedures for the purchase, delivery and registration of vaccines against COVID-19. That's why I'm calling on you, honourable national deputies, to support this government initiative and protect the people. I think the bill will be registered in the Supreme Council as soon as possible. During the year that passed, we restored our trust in the health system, provided it with resources, and worked out detailed plans to combat the disease. Our road map, our national vaccination plan, provides for the deployment of a national vaccination program in five stages. In the first phase, we use mobile brigades to inoculate medical and military personnel, it's a matter of national security. Planned coverage is about 367,000 people. In the second stage, vaccination is planned for people with an extremely high risk of infection and development of coronary disease, as well as for the rest of our medical staff, the rest of our military personnel. Planning coverage is about 2.5 million people. At this stage, the vaccination teams are joined by fixed vaccination sites based on the primary health care network. The approach to vaccination is through the primary health care network and mobile brigades. The third, fourth, and fifth stages will work according to the same principle and will include the remaining categories of our citizens. In general, the Ministry of Health envisages the deployment of 572 mobile brigades and 4,000 250 hospital injection sites. According to our plans, the main stages of vaccination will be completed this calendar year. So all of us, without exception, citizens of Ukraine who would like to be vaccinated -- we have the vaccine voluntarily -- will all be given access to the vaccine. Immediately, the skeptics calm down: the vaccine is enough. Today we have confirmed the supply of AstraZeneca, the American Novavax, the Chinese Sinovac, and the confirmation of COVAX, which we expect shortly, are also AstraZeneca, Pfizer and the rest of the vaccines that have entered this program. During our work trip to India, we made arrangements with another Indian vaccine producer, Bharat Biotech. Their Covaxin vaccine goes through the final stage of clinical trials, the next few days should be the results. If the performance results are confirmed at a high level, it will also be used to combat the coronavirus. I repeat, the coronavirus is our common disaster and we need to fight it all together. Our doctors, who save the lives of thousands of Ukrainians every day, understand this as no one else. They're at the front end of the defense, on a noose. Medical workers are not helpless and callous machines that are free of fatigue and emotional burnout. For me, these are primarily people who, by taking off a robe or a protective suit after a difficult change, become ordinary Ukrainians, with their problems, life situations, families, and social responsibility. In one way or another, they always think of their patients, regardless of their age. For our medics, every life is, without a doubt, priceless. They work in overcrowding conditions, and they must be rewarded for it. Raising social standards for health care professionals, creating conditions for the quality of our medical work is important. Especially now that they show 150 percent each day. Our doctors, medical workers, and scientists earned the right to a decent wage. To that end, our Ministry of Health has already drafted a bill called "setting the level of pay for medical and other public and municipal health workers". We consider it necessary to attach the amount of money available to our health care professionals to the minimum cost of living set for working persons on January 1st of the calendar year. So I call upon the people's deputies after the bill has been put into practice to prove their loyalty to the people who save the Ukrainians every day and to support the document, to pay our rescue workers a debt. I am convinced that the era of empty promises worthy of life will end. We need to move immediately to real and strategic steps in the reform of the medical sector as a whole. And we've already started a serious problem in this direction. For example, according to my initiative, the Cabinet of Ministers supported a decision that finally brought about an order in the production and use of biomaterials, a field of technology that makes it difficult to overestimate economic and social effects. We have opened wide opportunities for the development of domestic science, for the creation of high-paying jobs, and most importantly for our scientists and specialists who will not seek a better destiny abroad, but will find all the possibilities for self-realization at home. We've started huge changes in the digitalization of medicine: electronic recipes, online recording of doctors, multifunctional electronic services portal. It was all fictional yesterday, and today it's just a reality for us. In turn, vaccination online in two minutes with morning coffee or tea in hand, no problem. As of today, 127,628 people have registered for vaccination. On the line of the test run of aeromedical services, airspeed. Every citizen needs to know that wherever he is and in whatever kind of trouble he is, the state will take care of him, stabilize his condition in minutes and bring him to the nearest resistance hospital. According to the World Health Organization’s health ministry and our experts, the world is rapidly approaching the third wave of the coronavirus. Scientists ’ estimates are disheartening: The second year of the pandemic may prove to be even more difficult than the previous year. Our scientists, in conjunction with foreign colleagues, have observed that the mutation of the virus, the changes in the clinical picture of disease progression and in the evolution of COVID-19 transmission will significantly increase the pressure on the country's medical systems. In Ukraine, the numbers of the infected also grow daily. We have already entered the third wave of the world pandemic. We also received an official letter from the Institute of Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, which, at our request, has been sequencing the virus about the presence in the country of the British strain of coronavirus. It is more dangerous than European strains: higher rate of transmission, severe disease progression, and a complex clinical picture. The situation is tense. At present, three areas are already in the red quarantine zone, namely Ivano-Frankivska, Žitomirska and Chernivetsk region. There's Zacarpatska and Vinnitsk district on the border of the red zone. We're predicting an increase in the number of infections by the end of the season, essentially by the end of April. It is therefore very important to follow all the recommendations and rules of the Ministry of Health developed by our epidemiologists and doctors. Our previous administrative, political, and anti-epidemic decisions have shown that Ukraine can fight a pandemic at the level of the world’s leading countries, and by some indications it is far superior. And to the end. This year has proved unforgivable to us emotionally, physically, and resourcefully. We learned to live and conquer under new conditions. I want to thank every doctor for his dedication, character, and willingness to fight. I'm pressing your hand. I want to thank our people, Ukrainian citizens who, despite all the difficulties, believed us, followed quarantined hygiene rules, wore masks, used antiseptics, were on voluntary isolation. Each of the millions of Ukrainians contributed to the victory over the crown. The famous philosopher and poet of the twentieth century, Stanislav Jerzy Letz, said, "The great nation must be placed in every one of its representatives." I want to continue his opinion, and every representative should be responsible for representing the nation. So I urge you to do information hygiene, support the vaccination process and protect our doctors. Together, we must resist COVID and save the lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u3	Please sign up to the minister of health for questions from MPs and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u4	National Deputy Francis Igor Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u5	Good afternoon, Minister! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! We have a very difficult situation in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, you probably know that. And in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Yesterday in Ivano-Frankivsk, there are no places to put people. There's a lot of people. Yesterday 90 people came to the French hospital, and today we have 16 dead people. I'm here. I have a great request for you to intervene in this situation, given that in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, there is now an opportunity to expand the cadres. There's a hospital, there's a cardio center, where you can take a separate floor, there's a chandelier, but it's a district assignment. Unfortunately, the district authorities are doing nothing today to negotiate and pass these beds to the city's municipal hospitals. It's a sewn-up town. I'm asking for your immediate intervention, we're trying to make a meeting of the National Majority Deputies with our district leadership on Tuesday. To this point, please provide specific urgent response assignments. I will be very grateful because people need to be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u6	Thank you for asking. The situation in the Ivano-Frankiv region, and in general in Ivano-Frankivsky, it is not just in the control of me and the relevant services of the Ministry of Health, we monitor the situation every day. Every day, we communicate several times, determine how and how the routes are routed, how patients are routed. This morning, all over the Ivano-Frankiv region, we have the principle of extraterritoriality in cadaveral hospitals -- free beds with oxygen 62. filled beds with oxygen 62 percent. I'll answer you now. We're adding a hospital for COVID. I literally signed again yesterday about the expansion of COVID stations. We're adding this up properly. Why Is It Balanced? Because, you know, other diseases didn't do vacations. For example, we cannot deprive people of medical care during a myocardial infarction or other serious illness. But the situation is as controlled as possible. What's more, I'll send it. Last week there was one of my deputies, Victor Lazko, in Ivano-Frankivsk. I planned to send another deputy, another deputy, immediately next week, who would also deal with the situation on the spot. The situation is as controlled as possible. But it's heavy, it's as heavy as it is. Because, in fact, there's a lot of people who have COVID. That's why the region of Ivano-Frankiv is taken to the red level of epidenhazard. And it's very important to implement all the rules that are set by the right limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u8	Please, Stephanie Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u9	Olga Stefanisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u10	Mr. Stepanov, we finally had a vaccine. And that, of course, is victory. But something went wrong again. In the first week, you managed to inoculate 6,000 888 people. I understand that the first week is hard. But even Poland was inoculating 80,000 in the first week, and Serbia, with a population of 6 million, was 11,000. That's twice as much as you did. If we inoculate the population at this rate, we will achieve collective immunity in 77 years. I'm going to give you a heads-up, and I'm going to imagine that you're going to be 10 times more vaccinated. Even so, in 2029, only you and Ukraine will achieve collective immunity. This summer, countries have introduced vaccination passports and will not even let us into the European Union without a vaccine. You deliberately insulate us from all over the world with your idleness and inadequacy, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u11	I understand you have a knack for mathematical science. But there's a formula in math, apart from calculations. So you just have the wrong data in the formula. I would like to stress once again that, according to our vaccination plan, we have the anticipated vaccination of all of us without excluding Ukrainian citizens by the end of this year. We cascading the vaccine. Why Cascading? Because such a massive vaccination that the country has not yet known, no country in the world and Ukraine, including, needs completely verifiable and understandable action. Mobile brigades are now in operation, which are added every day. Understandably, the number of appropriately mobile brigades is increasing and the number of people vaccinated will increase. So keep counting, you're basically doing it. Well, just put the correct data in the formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u12	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u13	Dmitri Alexanderovich, my question may come under the censorship of the regulatory committee. Please pass the Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u14	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will have three brief questions. The first is about the vaccination passports, what my previous speaker said. Given that we've been vaccinated with up to 10,000 Ukrainian citizens out of 41 million people, it's quite a small piece of weight. And we're interested in the deadline for vaccination of full citizens of Ukraine. This time. Two: about the calculations. There were certain charges in the media about you that the financial parameters, well, to put it mildly, sold us a vaccine that goes to third world countries for free, and we bought it for 1.5 billion dollars. If you can, give us a few digits, so let's say the total cost, the cost of one vaccine and the number of vaccines so that we can make the normal ratio. And thirdly, for the "Satellite V" vaccine. I see European media reporting that Slovakia, Hungary, Portugal will now be, the European regulator is also conducting tests to inoculate 50 million citizens by summer. When are we going to produce and vaccinate "Satellite V"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u16	Your first question is about the deadline. Once again, we have five stages of vaccination. At each stage, Ukrainian citizens are added depending on their attitude toward a particular group of risks. By the end of 2021, we will have completed the vaccination of all without excluding Ukrainian citizens over 18 years of age because we do not vaccinate children. As for the vaccine that you said was there for third world countries. If you say so. I understand that you sometimes refer Ukraine to this list of countries, and I think it's quite different. If you're referring to Britain and Canada, who are also buying this AstraZeneca (Covishield), it looks strange. Once again, Ukrainians will be vaccinated with purely safe vaccines, vaccines that are proven effective, safe and proven effective. Other vaccines will not be registered in the country. Your next question is about prices. There is an appropriate confidentiality of contracts required by vaccine producers, it is distributed, I emphasize, not only to Ukraine, but to all without excluding the country. You won't find a country that talks about the price and who they buy it from. And last but not least: "Satellite V." I've said this a number of times: under no circumstances will Satellite V be registered, a Russian vaccine, in the territory of the country. That's the first one. As far as registration is concerned in other countries, I have already said that in other countries the Russian Federation did not take territory or resolve war. And there's no argument that you're going to convince me to register this vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u17	Please, National Deputy Vjatrović Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u18	Please tell Fedina Sofia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u19	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u20	Mr. Secretary, I don't understand why you're so careful about hiding the vaccine's worth. But this is known all over the world, and it's taxpayers' costs, Ukrainians' costs, and we have a right to know how much money has been cleared. Next. How many doses of the vaccine had to be disposed of in connection with rejection? Because we know that once the vial is opened, the vaccine's duration is very limited. Another question comes from various regions of Ukraine. Why do ineffective forms of disability appear? Why do they issue white forms that are not paid for instead of blue ones that should be? And when people put a lot of money, energy, and health into treatment, they don't even have the capacity to get hospital compensation. And yet the question to Mr. Prime Minister Schmigal. Please comment that the Kropivnitsky Court of Appeal has returned Odessa oil refinery to the associate Janukovich Kurchenk. Please tell me what other assets Janukovitch confiscated from him, the Portnova, Smirnov, Zelensky team is planning to send back to the gang?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u21	Is this a matter for the Minister of Health? I'll remind you, right now, questions to the Minister of Health, questions to the Prime Minister will follow. Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u22	Please give the word to Batenku Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u23	Don't shout. Answer me, Maxim Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u24	Yeah, I'll answer that, I'll answer that. On your first question -- the price of a vaccine -- I'm telling you again, no country in the world is talking about the official price they're buying. It's a requirement of the right manufacturers, it's a condition of the manufacturer, and you won't find any such information. That's the first one. So some vaccines have these requirements. We would be delighted to tell you if you did not meet the manufacturer’s requirements. And that's what the supply of vaccines is all about. As for, did you say how much "washed"? I think you can communicate with some of your faction colleagues about the whole "washing" process, and it'll make it easier for you. Now, what I'm telling you about vaccines, I'm telling you once again, stop doing fairies, manipulations and everything. Let's vaccinate our citizens, let's protect them, because the vaccine is equal to life. It's just a big request not to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u25	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u26	Dear Minister of Health! While you're at it, I want to ask you a question, it's a matter of time. Will Covishield be a good vaccine? Which raises more and more questions for citizens. Not just about the price, because there are more quality vaccines, as we can see, from European practice, so is Pfizer. But you know, time will tell you how much we can save people with this vaccine, because we won't bring back the lost people. In the case of the side effects of this vaccine, which are the reactions and how many of these cases, you have answered this question in such a sublime way, generalizing. And there's information: did the Ministry of Health actually put in place vaccination preparations without creating enough mobile teams to carry out the vaccination? And the last. Is it planned in the country on a regular basis, like another attack on the Ukrainian economy, due to an increase in disease in the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u27	The first is the vaccine. I would like to emphasize to you once again that the vaccine AstraZeneca, the Covishield vaccine, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in other businesses is the same vaccine. The quality of this vaccine is at the level of the best European world producers. That's the first one. The second question is about the number of reactions. Ten thousand, we've got 126 reactions -- 1.2 percent. What are these reactions? These are minor allergic reactions, such as redness of the skin in a city of direct injection or a rise in temperature in a person to different numbers -- 37, 38, well, sometimes there were 38,5 -- which is held for several hours. These are the individual characteristics of each person, these reactions are happening to the introduction of any immunobiological drug. They are completely within the limits of the figures that are involved in the introduction and vaccination of other diseases. With regard to the introduction of the lockdown. We have an adaptive quarantine. The adaptive quarantine provides for the introduction of a "red" level of epidemino-safety in the territory of the area, when you exceed certain indicators that speak of the level of disease, the level of hospitalization and the nearness of the medical system to collapse. That's why we have these things. Today there are three areas: Ivano-Frankivska, Žitomirska and Cherniewecka. There is also a tense situation in the Zakarpatsky and Vinnitsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u28	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u29	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, I want to thank all those doctors who fight day and night for the lives and health of Ukrainians. Honor and thanks, and many summers! Mr. Minister, the Fatherland faction has consistently supported all government initiatives relating to the protection and support of the medical community, not just the medical community, but the entire medical field. Questions. When communicating in the regions, would the National Health Service be interested in continuing and providing sufficient funds for so - called cadaver bags? To make sure that those doctors know their perspective. If we need to continue or allocate extra funds, the "Paternity" faction is ready to support it. The same thing that you said about higher wages: let's have these draft laws. And the Fatherland faction will support it. People who work should have a decent salary and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. Thank you for taking care of the medical staff. What's going on with the payouts is the medical staff who are taking part in the treatment of COVID-19. These decisions are made by the government accordingly by the Ministry of Health. They're accepted now, they'll be accepted further. There's no such thing as any, not even theoretical, there can be no theoretical basis for canceling these supplements for our heroes, for our medical staff. They are now, they will be in the future. And as long as we have an appropriate pandemic, as long as we have adequate quarantine restrictions, they will be determined by the government’s decision, and the National Health Service will be carried out according to their functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u31	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u32	Dear Maxim Volodymyrovich, we, the National Majority Deputies of the Trust Group, have recently been approached by dozens of medics in the context of a situation that has arisen with the National Health Service of Ukraine. I don't know if you know about this, but 50 percent of our population might lose the ability to get services at both primary and secondary levels. Surprisingly, under conditions of decentralization, transfer of property, pandemics, local problems, lack of funds, NHRIs require inclusive requirements for FAPs, which are found in rural councils where the premises are 80 years old. Expand, there's pandas to do, expand bathrooms by manipulating offices. People are terrified, people are shocked, they say, "What are you doing at all?" Even on a secondary level, millions of dollars are needed only to produce a PCD. I ask you to intervene in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. For no one is the secret that we have the National Health Service sometimes wonders, but everything about the terms and conditions of contract making, they are all under control, they are established by the Ministry of Health, in which contracts will be made. In terms of access, unhindered access. That question was raised in your question. Moreover, we consider according to the government. A decision was made to postpone in some positions. Because it's just impossible to do in a few months, what's inside. What's on the outside -- the pandas or other things about access for people with disabilities -- should remain. I think there'll be your full support. And what's inside of it is that you have to invest more money to actually rebuild it. So everything about making contracts, they're all going to be made, they're going to be made now. And they're all going to get medical expenses. And as a result, all our citizens will be provided with quality medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u34	The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratiuk Oleni Konstantinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u35	Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. You know, we have a very low level of confidence in vaccination in the country and, unfortunately, a low level of trust in the vaccine itself that you've already begun to vaccinate the population. This is actually the result of the absence of a quality information campaign on vaccination as the only way to ensure life and to preserve the health system in general. I'm a supporter of vaccination. But at the same time, the opaque choice of the vaccine you've been carrying out, because there's a lot of confusion about this issue. You now have the opportunity in principle to develop fairy tales around the vaccine you brought. Please tell me, do you have a clear plan, a population communication strategy, for doctors, perhaps even an explanation? And what's the specific rate of effectiveness of the vaccine that you've just begun to inoculate? This is very important for today’s information on vaccination itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. Of course, we are moving in the right direction with regard to clarifying the level of vaccination. First of all, we are not satisfied with that level of vaccine. According to this list of sociological studies that are, it's up to 50 percent there. The minimum level should be at least 60 percent to begin the formation of collective immunity. That's only until the beginning. It's about choosing a vaccine. We live in a world where there is no vaccine pharmacy where the minister of health can go and buy a vaccine. We have a demand for vaccine in all countries of the world that is extremely high. Clearly, we will use vaccines that are only effective, vaccines that are proven to be effective. If we're talking about AstraZeneca (Sovishield), the vaccine that we're using today is proven to be effective at 78 percent there, just like AstraZeneca. And I want to emphasize, it's the same vaccine. For the purpose of popularizing vaccination, in order to dispel all the myths, fairies, manipulations that I have, I have publicly vaccinated, the President of the country publicly vaccinated, the Chief Sanitary Doctor. Yesterday, on the air of one of the channels, we did vaccinations, including for certain public figures, thought leaders, health workers, whom everyone already knows perfectly well in the face. We will continue in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u37	Thank you, Maxime Volodymyrovich. Please have a seat. Sign up for questions from the National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Black-Morted Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u38	Good afternoon. Black Sea Artem, 131st District, Mikolayevstina. I'm speaking on behalf of an agrarian committee about concern about the actions of certain government officials. For example, as an agrarian committee, we are concerned about the actions of the Head of State at the agrarian committee meeting this Wednesday. Dear Mrs. Mogilecka, understanding the inability of her subordinates, such as one district chief of the DPSS, to answer the questions of the national deputies, made it very clear that she was able to answer the cheeks and had some mistrust both to the head of the committee and to the members of the agrarian committee. So if you'll excuse me, Mr. Prime Minister, a question to you. What percentage of veterinary inspectors are in the foreign service today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. I, with your permission, will address him immediately to the Deputy Minister of Economics of Panaiotida Svetlana Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u40	Good afternoon! Thank you for asking. I think we can meet with the head of the DSS today and send you detailed information in any way that is convenient for you. If any action was, in your view, during a meeting in those tonees that you think are unacceptable, you would also be willing to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u41	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u42	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the distinguished Cabinet of Ministers! Denis Anatolyevich, specifically to you. I've been making a reference to you from the "Trust" MP group. Well, we've got a plan of vaccination for the educational community. According to this plan, the planned vaccination for education workers is September-June. But this is exactly the learning period. And is it planned to change the vaccination plan for the education community? Because in these terms it's totally unrealistic, it's wrong. And this should be done as soon as possible, and it should be done in a timely manner. Because there are a lot of references to all the members of our group on this very issue. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u43	Thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. Clearly, we have educated people entering the second stage of vaccination, which is September-Yellow. Of course, this is too far away, and I will now give the floor to the Minister of Health. But I want to assure you that this will definitely start sooner. Please hand it over to Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u44	Thank you. What's relevant about vaccination, including education, and this is really a priority for us too, I want to emphasize once again that we have deliberately failed to set appropriate dates for the beginning of these or other stages of vaccination. Why? Because according to our stunt strategy for all of these things, when, for example, there's a second stage in importing the appropriate amount of vaccine, we're going to immediately engage the third stage, then the fourth stage as well. And it's clear that what we have to do about education is we have to do it before the start of the new school year. That's what we plan to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u45	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Just now, your minister, who reported from the rostrum, inadvertently put the entire Kabmin on a stretch. He obviously doesn't know that we bought goods from our eastern neighbor last year for $4.5 billion, and that's 100 percent of the glass imports, that's electricity, that's oil products, and so on. So I have a question: Who's not sincere, and who's manipulating data? The cars we put in. Why does government place the value of human life below its own energy, such as its interests? That's the first one. And the second question that I have about financial issues and your intelligence is about increasing government debt. When your team came in, you had a debt of $82 billion, now it's 91, plus $9 billion. When are you going to return this money and when are you going to start reducing it from Green to power, which is $82 billion? Thank you. And please answer both questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u47	With regard to the Sputnik V vaccine, I support the minister's response, and I completely agree with it, and I have nothing to add. It's about your question about government debt. At the beginning of last year, government debt was officially about $85 billion equivalent, a sovereign total government debt. At the end of January, government debt amounts to $90 billion in the equivalent. All the budget parameters, the government budget deficit, the loan that was planned to be taken last year, have been fully met, and so this is the natural increase in the amount of government debt. It is within parameters and within the conceivables agreed by all ministries, all of our international partners, acceptable to international investors, and does not go beyond the amount that is unacceptable or that makes it difficult to service public debt. I'd like to add, if there's an addition, to the minister of finance. Please, Sergei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u48	I just want to add that last year we had a projected budget deficit of 7.5 percent, a actual deficit of 5.3. So we were able to save more, not borrow too much last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u49	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u50	Please, the word Galini Vasilchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u51	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u52	Galina Ivanovna Vasilchenko, "The Voice" faction. My question will be to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Dear colleagues, in October of last year, when local elections took place and throughout Ukraine, united territorial communities were formed, increasingly by the government, the president, and the majority of the representatives of the majority, saying that communities should be financially able and we have every effort to help them. So, for my part, I registered the corresponding Bill No. 5066, which I predict will increase the percentage of GDP in the community from 60 percent to 65 percent. Tell me, what is your position, Mr. Minister of Finance? Also, why is the budget committee still not addressing this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u53	Thank you. General information. This year's community budget is the largest, it's as big as ever -- 509 billion dollars. This is the aggregate budget of the local new communities. Regarding the next strategy, I ask the Minister of Finance to complete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. In part of the redistribution of PDF between the state and local budgets, this can be discussed. Because in fact we can ask questions from the point of view of the efficiency of using the funds, the fund balances in the accounts of the individual local budgets. But in general, we understand, we support decentralization reform. I'm ready to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u55	Kopitin Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Please pass the word to Mikhailuk Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u57	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u58	Mikhailuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u59	Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u60	Good afternoon, dear fellows! My question to the Minister of Economics and it concerns the modernisation of the USSR Convention with the Government of Japan on the Prevention of Double Taxation on Income Taxes in 1986. This is one of the 75 documents of a similar nature made between Ukraine and other countries, and this is one of the three agreements that were made in the days of the U.S.R., which has not changed, which is not allowed, at least because the new agreements, for example, with Great Britain and other countries, are more detailed and generally correspond to the status of Ukraine as a modern capitalist state. In this regard, I have a question. Does the Minister of Economy have plans to make changes to this agreement, or is there a desire to make a new covenant? If so, could you give details to the contact person with whom you can negotiate the matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u61	Thank you so much for asking. Yes, we are now working on updating absolutely everything that is relevant to the international community. With regard to the contact person, he is a trade representative, Deputy Minister of Economy Taras Duck. You can contact him about all relevant information on the implementation of all international agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u62	Sergey Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u63	Please give the floor to National Deputy Francis Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u64	Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u65	Dear Denis Anatolyovich, good afternoon again! I have two questions for you. You know, right now, under the walls of the Supreme Council is the Ivano-Frankow National Dramatic Theatre, which has just played a performance in the Sevierodonetsky in front of our attachés and is now going to Chernobyl. I'd like to ask you a question like that. On February 18, 2019, by decree of the President of Ukraine, the Frankiv Theatre received the status of a national theatre and, on the idea, was to be included in Order No. 413 of the Cabinet of Ministers (from 03.04.2006), which would allow for additional incomes and income indexes for the employees and actors of the theatre. They've repeatedly asked you this question in part to be included in this decision, and they've been getting this money, but it's not being considered for two years. I'm asking you very much to answer that question when will it be resolved? That's the first one. And the second is an orphan in the Valley. Perhaps you know the problem. The Ivano-Frankiv District Council accepted the question of his closure, and the children stayed on the street. Who should be responsible for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u66	I'll ask the first part of the question to the Culture Minister Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u67	Good afternoon, colleagues! We know this problem. Unfortunately, national status does not necessarily relate to indexation when it comes to municipal property or property of local communities. In this case, we can somehow influence, and we've initiated these changes, but unfortunately, it's about the ability of the district budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u68	And there was a second question. And the second part, I'm also going to ask you to answer -- it's for the orphanage. If it belonged to the local community, of course it was a matter for the local community. The area, to the area, to the district budget, to the area, i.e. this at the district level needs to be decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u69	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u70	Moroz Volodymyr, 59th District, Donetskina. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a very important question for you, and in general, who can answer my question. There was a decision by Kabmin 767 to compensate for the damaged housing. In one city where fighting is taking place, I was approached by some 200 families for a broken home. Problem is. People have acts of ruined housing, they bring them today, they tell them they're not relevant, they're acts of testing 2014-2016. Today the commission can't go to work because they say it's dangerous. I think there's work to be done, because people live as homeless for seven years.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u71	I would like to ask Deputy Prime Minister Minister of the Ministry of Reintegration to respond to the temporarily occupied territories of Alexia Reznickova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for your concern. We know this problem. Today, the allocated subsidies are just for the purpose of compensating damaged housing, and you know, the appropriate commissions are working with the local authorities. If there are really problems with the non-admission of documents, I'll ask you personally, if you don't mind, if we meet together, let's talk about a personal situation. I promise you to intervene in person, and you and I will find a solution together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u73	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u75	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u76	The Honourable Prime Minister, the faction "European Solidarity" of the Zacarpathian Archery has already called upon you to impose strict quarantine restrictions on Zacarpathia in order to prevent the collapse of the medical system there and to respond to the spread of the coronavirus, and to spread the death rate from the coronavirus. When does the government plan to adopt this decision? Do you wait until the football match is over, and then we'll have another splash on Zacarpatta? The second question. Your deplorable salary increase for the education community has proved to be absolutely fictitious. Because if you let the prestigious teachers pay between 5 and 30 percent, that means that educational subsidies are unfortunately not enough for all teachers. And the wages of many scholars have, unfortunately, been reduced since the new year. And the third question. Why did you return the Chicken factory anyway? And what else are you planning to return to Yanukovich's gang? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u77	So for the first part, after Zakarpathy, I would like to ask the Minister of Health to answer, according to the teachers, the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u78	What is involved in the Carpathians. During my speech, I told them that the situation on Zakarpat was really tense enough. According to those indicators, those criteria that exist as soon as they exceed our criteria that are currently in place will be introduced immediately. There's going to be a committee meeting, whether it's Saturday or Sunday, and there's going to be a red level of epidemic safety. What is involved, for example, when you load your beds. Today, there are 63.6 percent of beds loaded. Based on the projections and what's going on, I think it's going to happen in the near future that they're going to move on to the red level of epsy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, with respect to the prestige allowance, I can clearly say that it has a stimulating character, from 5 to 30 percent. And today there is no reason to say that there is a restriction on educational subsidies. If there are such cases, please correct the appropriate parliamentary appeal to the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u80	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Kucher Mikoli Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u82	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u83	Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, please tell me, do you know the situation in the public stockholder company of the State Food and Grain Corporation? Did you know that out of one and a half million loans granted by the China Export Bank, 800 million are no longer available? Did you know that of these 800 million we're going to pay as taxpayers? Did you know that the company is going to go bankrupt in the fall? And I have a question. Does the government deal with the question of not so much this company as the big and long affair that has existed for ten years after the theft of this loan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u84	Of course, the situation is not new for the government, we are dealing with it. Now, I'm going to ask the Deputy Minister of Economics to supplement this situation, but the law enforcement agencies are definitely doing the part that you call theft. And decisions must be made, and the guilty must be punished who committed the crime if it is proved. Regarding the company itself, the Ministry of Economics manages the company as well as other companies in their sphere of administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u85	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, there are historically many problems. And about a year ago, all the information related to the history of the theft, all the facts that were known to the Ministry regarding the activities of everything that was going on, was sent to the law enforcement agencies. So I think you can send a parliamentary statement on the status of how all available information and information is investigated by the Ministry of Economics. And in terms of credit, we're dealing with the issue in order to find the maximum, well, the best way and the least vulnerable to taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u86	The straw of Dmitry Viktorovich. The ultimate question is, after that, let's get to work, get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u87	Congratulations, Reverend Denis Anatolyovich. There's a question. Today is a catastrophic situation with food using trans-fats. 52 National Deputies from "The Servants of the People" have registered a bill banning the use of hydrogenated palm oil in chocolate, candy, children's products. We want to hear your position, how do you feel about transgenders and banning them in Ukrainian food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. Regarding the health of the nation, of course, there, when it comes to transjectors or any other harmful substances that exceed standards, such products in Ukraine should be banned. The Consumer Rights Service is working, investigating. Of course, the introduction of standards, the adoption of relevant legislation, European food safety standards, the HASSP is a standard in civilized countries of the world, of course these things need to continue to be implemented, as it happens, quality control is to take place. And the introduction of new modern legislation will, of course, be supported by the government, which will relate to improving the quality of food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is up. Let us thank Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government. Congratulations! Thank you. I wish you luck. Dear colleagues, let's move on. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u90	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Now let me tell you the chronology of events. Last week, I detained a group of BSS employees who were following me, systematically monitoring me. At the beginning of this week, some unknown people scattered some postcards around my neighbors’ apartments that were compromising on my behalf. And yesterday, a security officer in Ukraine started calling my neighbors and, uh, pay attention! - invite them in for questioning at the D.B.I. The Ukrainian Security Service is calling my neighbors and inviting them to the D.B.I. So what did I do this morning? I took these two phones to my neighbors, and I called the security officer of Ukraine first, and then I wrote it all down in the video. And now I'm going to put it online. I would like to address Mr. Jermak and say that he will be personally responsible for this political persecution. And that's all in Greensky. And finally. Mr. Jermak, I would like to remind you of the phrase of the Ukrainian classic of modern times in this genre of Gennady Moskal: " You're in your mouth, not so I can shut up."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Please take your seats. Several MP factions and groups have been asked to change the order of today’s work. There's a proposal here: from 12 to 12:30 to make a request announcement instead of a break, after which we work until the first and without a different one today. Is there no objection? I'm going to put this motion to the vote and ask you to support it. From 12 to 12:30, there's gonna be a statement of inquiries, parliamentary inquiries. From 12:30 to 1:00. No, come on. I'm sorry, it's a question-making session, and today it doesn't have a different one. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. On the contrary, some of our colleagues deny it. I'm betting on a vote that's just been put to the vote: from 12 to 12:30 a.m. a.m., and then another 30 minutes -- a review of the agenda, and we're closing the plenary session. Ready? Ready to vote? Please remind me of the vote using the sensory button. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:17:19]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and before I go back to dealing with matters of day order, I personally would like to welcome everyone with a coming holiday from March 8th! [[Applause]] I wish you health! I wish you strength! I wish you would remain so prosperous, so happy that every day in your heart is spring! To always feel respect, to feel love, and to have a full sense of happiness in your life. Congratulations! Congratulations to everyone who works in this room today, colleagues! And I welcome all those who are watching us today with the coming festivals! Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:18:43]] For 209 Decision taken. Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories Negoda Vjacheslav Andronović is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u92	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, Ukraine's legislation today has not settled one of the important issues regarding the appointment of temporary heads of the local state administration in the event of a temporary loss of employment as the head of the administration, its first deputy and deputy in relation to SOVID-19. Sadly, we have had similar experiences, and this has caused serious problems in the activities of local government administrations. For the purpose of solving this problem, a draft law has been drafted by the government, which is before you. The draft law proposes to supplement section VII of the "Conclusion Provisions" of the Law "On Local and State Administrations" with the provision on the possibility of placing the responsibilities of the head of the local public administration at the discretion of the manager of the local government administration, and in the absence of such a post as the deputy director of the apparatus, and in the event of his temporary absence, as the manager of the local public administration's own structural unit. This decision should be communicated to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Office of the President of Ukraine by the local government administration, as provided for in the draft law. The bill also states that the temporary performance of the duties of the head of the local public administration is suspended on the day of the restoration of the performance of the head of the local government. The adoption of this law will ensure the continuity of the activities of local government administrations. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u93	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u94	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! On December 2, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Regional Development and Urbanization considered Bill 4290, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at its meeting. The project proposes to provide a mechanism for the replacement of the head, his first deputy, and the deputy heads of the local government in the event of their simultaneous loss of employment through COVID. To be honest, the committee had a difficult discussion on this bill, because, on the one hand, we understand that executive power and its branches cannot be paralyzed in the event of a mass disease. On the other hand, it is quite contradictory when appropriate authority is relied on by the head of the apparatus. Therefore, after hearing the information, the Committee approved recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Rules, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations (No. 4290) as a result of the first reading, to recommend on a basis. The Committee also decided to request the Head of the Supreme Council to announce the need for proposals and rights for corrections, clarifications, deletions of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the law, which in the first reading corresponded to the subject matter of legal regulation of the bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules. Therefore, the committee's proposal to support it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u95	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, it's a very unique bill. So if COVID, you can change, and if it's not COVID, don't God forbid, a car crash, God forbid, another disease, then what, we're going to pass a new law? The second question. What kind of authority does he have? According to yesterday’s two-vote vote with difficulty in the hall, for God's sake it will go through in the final edition, will this performing duty have the right to stop the decisions of the city councils? For example, Zaporziski, Dniprovsky, Mikolai, Lviv, Ivano-Frankovsky. I don't know, we have to keep an eye on the technology of legislative initiatives. In my opinion, if we want to make a fundamental decision, we have to live up to President Prashenko's promise and President Zelensky's -- and finally make district councils, district councils, and there will be no questions at all. And that is: when we have to break the Constitution, we break it in a part of stopping decisions, and we give the right to ultimately people who have been chosen to choose executive bodies to regulate budget issues, administrative activities in this area, nobody cares. Our faction will not vote for this absurdity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u97	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Larissa Bilozer, Trust MP, Winnitzkin. This bill proposes transferring the MDA director's authority in case of COVID's disease to the first deputy, then to the deputy, then to the head of the apparatus, in case of temporary absence, to the deputy director of the apparatus. There is a certain legal coalition here, taking into account the hierarchy of positions, the degree of influence of the office, as it is appointed by their degree of responsibility. Because the MDA manager is assigned to the CMU, and then he's assigning, you know, the deputy head of the apparatus there. And in this part, it would seem to be a point norm, but it will form corrupt and political risks. We've got COVID covering up all the impersonation that's happening in the country. Taken by law, already in March, a cadaver bought through a tender procedure -- it's already been stolen by billions. Imagine, 133 thousand procedures for 28 billion dollars are purchased without ProZorro, without a competitive procedure. I registered this bill in June, and everyone says "yes." And everything is done to keep him from going out. I've already prescribed for review that let's do a simplified procedure for two weeks. No, money is still stolen and stolen on a large scale. And we've got the whole thing covered up. The competitions have been replaced, and now they want to make it hard to understand who was in charge and who was in charge. I understand good intentions, but unfortunately, this is used for useful purposes, and it can cause both corruption and abuse. Trust Group will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u99	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, well, honestly, when I read the bill, I didn't believe it at first, well, there can't be such a bill for the Cabinet of Ministers. We understand he's up to something. After a year of pandemics, it turns out that this may be a hypothetical situation, when virtually everyone has become ill, including heads of administration. And if that were so urgent, why hasn't he been accepted for six months, you've had him in Parliament, such a super-nasty bill? But you will soon have the responsibility of carrying out the responsibilities of the heads of local administrations. But when I finished reading the bill, I understood what the bill was all about. In the end, it is quietly written that appropriate administrations should be able to report this. Who do you think? In front of the President's office. How long has it been since the President's office has been an executive body? Because I remind those who have forgotten in the Cabinet of Ministers that you are accountable and accountable, in accordance with the Constitution, to the appropriate authorities of the executive branch of a higher level. So we have, it turns out, the President's Office is now a higher-level executive body? Friends, well, I'm already, frankly, tired of looking for unconstitutional things in those bills that are being passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, especially in the local government. And this is a terrible example that they show us. But let's face it, we're also showing them not very good examples. Please tell me why so far (I've just checked) we have a vote on, for example, the head card of the Church State Administration, or at least is it? Why is this person still in authority? Now let's put this to a vote, let's stop, and then this will be a good example for the Cabinet, then we can have a moral right to criticize them for these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u101	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. From myself and from all over the faction, I join the greetings about our colleagues, our wonderful colleagues (as they say) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we welcome all the women in Ukraine. I want to tell you, you know, it's not always easy with you, but without you, we admit, no way. And everything we men do, we do for you. As for the bill that's proposed, I want to say to you, well, the Constitution, well, there is a book, so go to it. I understand that it has already been taken from all national libraries, from the Office of the President, but I would like at least the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have a book called the Constitution of Ukraine working. But I was surprised by another subject of this law. One year after COVID cuts us off, it literally cuts, we start to settle the question: what do I do if the headmaster, the first deputy and the deputy heads of the local government are sick? I have one logical question: How did they live a year? Did COVID come to our country just now? I feel like something's changing in my head. Recently we said that COVID isn't there, that we've overcome everything, that everything is behind us, and we're the best at coping with COVID. And now we need to come up with novels: how to work for the heads of local government in the COVID environment. Is that how you define yourself? There's a COVID or there's no COVID. And what today is a terrible wave of COVID is the responsibility of real power. Because COVID is not to be talked about, but really to protect people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I see "For the Future," I see "The Voice," "The Servant of the People," and then we move on to the vote. Three speeches with motives -- and we're going to the vote. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u104	It's good that we're going to the American model of democracy: when the President can't perform his duties, they're done by the Vice President when the Vice President can't -- the Secretary of State, when the Secretary of State can't -- the head of the Senate, then the Attorney-General, and so on, up to 14 knees, the minister, including the Minister of Veterans. But in this case, we had to start from above, from the President of Ukraine, and then from the text, who could do the duty. We're coming from the bottom -- heads of the district government. It is very careful to write down the list simply so that we do not laugh at ourselves, and as a result, the head of the district government does not act as a chief accountant. In this case, we find it appropriate to write this bill correctly, but not only to attach ourselves to COVID, but to any extraordinary situation. And to keep from rewriting the law, to move this situation from "transitional positions" to the body of the bill itself. We support it in the first reading with mandatory refinements to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, then Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, this bill is not about legislative work, it's some kind of theater of absurdity. We have in this Parliament a desire to push through the eternal century of ministers, to give them incredible powers. Now we want the workers of the apparatus, the substitutes, then the substitutes, then the specialists, then the top specialists, then the majors, they make the decisions that matter to our country. Dear colleagues, at least that's not how it's done. Such absurdity must be stopped, such absurdity must be eradicated, but such absurdity cannot be voted on. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call upon everyone not to support this bill, but to give our Parliament appropriate control functions, corresponding responsibilities to managers with clear powers and no possibility of abuse, without the possibility of eternal viceroys, who are then managed directly by the Office of the President at the bell.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u108	You know, I agree with my colleague, who is very difficult to find, to find unconstitutional things where they are not at all. And the task is to find them. I agree with my colleague that it is necessary not to say anything but accept it. The bill is registered last year, so let's not manipulate it, let's make a decision. And as for what will be stopped by the head of the MDA's decision, once again, the decision will be stopped by the court, not by the head of the local government administration. And who gives it, whether it's the head or the first deputy or the head of the machine, is a very different thing. Therefore, a colleague would like to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u109	Thank you. Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Take your seats. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I remind you that voting is done with the sensory button. Please keep it and the "yes" or "against" button before counting the results. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations (registration No. 4290). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:36:15.]] For 196 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations (registration No. 4290). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:36:51]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft Law (registration number 4290). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:37:26]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The next question is the draft Law amending part 5 of article 45 of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption on the Elimination of Uncertainty of Obligations of Members of Legal Self-Government Authorities with regard to the completion and submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform functions of State or local self-government (registration number 3602). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:38:10]] For 216 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danuza Alexandr Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I have, along with other deputies, introduced a draft Act amending part five of article 45 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to remove the uncertainty of the duties of members of the legal self-government authorities with regard to the completion and submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government (draft 3602). The purpose of the bill is to eliminate the multiple treatment of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Uncertainty in the formulation of paragraph 2 of part 1 of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption of persons who are subject to this law, the active drafting of the law has the following wording: "other persons who are part of competitive and disciplinary commissions formed in accordance with other laws" - provides for the possibility of double interpretation of this norm and gives rise to legitimate concern in the legal community. After all, according to all the formal signs, the members of the CRC’s legal self-government bodies of the Higher Qualifications and Disciplinary Commission, the lawyers who are part of the committees established in accordance with the Law on Lawyers and Lawyerry, in the current edition of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, may be referred to as the other persons to whom this law applies. In general, we found consensus on the committee and voted unanimously. The only thing we've added to lawyers is notaries, we've added audiences, we've added some other categories that actually refer to self-governing organizations that don't refer to government finances. Please uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Please invite the head of the Anticorruption Policy Committee, Radina Anastasia Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u112	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy considered the proposed bill and suggested that it be adopted on the basis of the Committee’s proposals as a whole. My colleagues, I would like to point out that the bill has been clarified by the committee, together with representatives of the legal self-government bodies, together with the copyright team. And accordingly we propose to adopt it in an editorial that, on the one hand, actually protects members of the legal self-governance bodies of competitive disciplinary committees of lawyers from possible pressure on them because of an incorrect norm. We find that members of law enforcement bodies, qualified disciplinary commissions, do not make a declaration to a person authorized to perform the functions of the state of local self-government. At the same time, colleagues, the committee's draft bill clearly states that members of competition committees with public authorities, members of competition committees with local government bodies, members of, for example, a qualified and disciplinary commission of prosecutors with a lawyer's quota -- all of these people are making a declaration, as is now provided by law. So, colleagues, once again, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council approve as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u113	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Radinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u115	Radinius? Radina Anastasia Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u116	My colleagues, I just want to point out once again that, by adopting your decision on this bill, please pay attention to the committee's decision. The committee's decision is very detailed on an editorial that we propose to adopt a bill. There's no unreasonable narrowing or unwarranted expansion of the list of declarants compared to what is now, just the elimination of inaccuracies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u117	Please, National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u118	Thank you. As far as Bill 3602 is concerned. This is a very good initiative, which European Solidarity will also support. Moreover, we insist on adopting it as part of the committee itself and are willing to support it in general. But, Mr. Dmitri! Mr. Speaker! Dmitri Alexanderovich! Mr. Speaker, thank you. You're the second person in this state and you have to take care of Parliament's authority. I would like to point out that Mr. Skicko is registered in the system, and that's unacceptable, because he destroys trust in you both as a speaker, and in Parliament as a whole. Moreover, I urge you no longer to be tolerated when representatives of the executive branch do not answer the questions that national MPs are asking. In particular, we have not heard an answer regarding the fact that the Court of Appeal cancelled the special confiscation of the Odessa oil refinery. And we don't understand how many other businesses that have been captured in the Janukovic environment will be returned to the Janukovich environment, especially Kurchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u119	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u120	Please give the floor to the Deputy of Slavic Antonini Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u121	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to point out that our faction will support this bill. It's actually pretty pointy. At the same time, to our conviction, it improves the content of the Anti-Corruption Act and makes it more defined, which actually improves its quality. Regarding the content of the regulations, it is simply clarified, namely, which of the representatives of self - government and self - control professions, in which cases a declaration is made by the person authorized to perform the functions of the State or of local self - government. Therefore, we believe that this bill is appropriate and worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u123	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Will anyone else insist on the performances? Fatherland, Future. Dear colleagues, please invite the national MPs. We'll be voting in four minutes. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Mikoli Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u125	I can't hear who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u126	Mikoli Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u127	Mikola Babenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! The Trust MP group will also support the bill as a basis. We fully agree with all the previous speakers, the law, the bill, although small, but it removes legal uncertainty in certain cases regarding lawyers, because in some cases lawyers today do not understand whether they should submit a declaration to NAMC or not. This is a bill that we're taking down this question. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u129	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, then Batenko. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Head! A few decades ago, on a pack of microwave ovens, they started to say that you can't put animals in there, that you can't dry your head, that you can't put on legal slang, that's called "announcement for idiots." So this bill is a warning to idiots, because it's very obvious that lawyers have nothing to do with the functions of the state or local self-government, and then the self-government authorities have no obligation to fill out any declarations. Sadly, though, we have the practice of operating control organs in such a way that we have absolutely idiotic explanations. Instead of resolving this issue at the level of clarification of the relevant supervisory body, the Supreme Council is now forced to adopt an absolute law. So, of course, we need to support it, we need to vote -- and we need to take this out -- really, like a lot of other issues, such as the declaration of exchange of currency, which is absolute schizophrenia, but we're doing it because there was an explanation of the relevant control body. You just have to keep it from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u131	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The MP's Party for the Future will vote, support the bill, but only on the first reading. We are opposed to voting on a basis today and in general, because it still needs to be refined. Because if we adopt it in this paper, in some cases, it can lead to arbitrary interpretation of laws by the authorities. And the logic itself. If, of course, lawyers take part in qualified committees, evaluate their colleagues, they do not need to make declarations. However, the same law clearly states that if, of course, the same lawyer participates in a qualification commission formed by a public authority or local self-government, he should automatically submit a declaration. Either free everyone from the offer, or force everyone to serve, it's not a very logical norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal is on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Right, based on what? On the whole, perhaps? One faction against. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Part Five of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption on the Elimination of Uncertainty of Members of Legal Self-Government Authorities regarding the completion and submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government (Registration No. 3602). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:50:48]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose a reduction of half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and preparation for the second reading of the bill (register No. 3602). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:51:39]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it's 52 minutes. There's a proposal to start questioning, because there are 11 questions that are addressed to the President, and they're going to have to be voted on. Don't go away, please. Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk. And then we'll get back to work at 12:22.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! We received 11 parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. Thus, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Valentina Nastawaychenka’s request to the President of Ukraine for the award of the O.S. It's called the Hero of Ukraine. Please vote. Ready? Vote, Your Honor. [[11:52:43]] For 211 There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:53:09]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. It is an open-ended vote to support Valentina Naek "Energoat" and Alexia Kucherenka's request to the President of Ukraine for abuse by officials of the DP "NAEC "Energoat" in the field of safety of nuclear power stations. Please prepare for the vote. Vote. [[11:53:47]] For 225 Thank you. Decision taken. 225-yes. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:54:11]] For 224 Unfortunately, no decision is made. It is an open-ended vote in support of Alexia Kucherenka and Valentina Naftogaz Ukraine's request to the President of Ukraine to respond to the violations of AT "Naftogaz Ukraine" which were discovered in 2020 following a review of the Ukrainian State Audit Service. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Vote. [[11:54:56]] For-182 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:55:22]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Yes, the distinguished national MPs view an open-ended roll call to support the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[11:56:02]] For-152. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:56:27]] For-143 The decision is not taken. A roll-call vote is under way to support Alexander Sukhov's request to the President of Ukraine for the commitment of Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration leader Hayday S.V. meet the requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of a free-expression checkpoint at the checkpoint to the temporarily occupied territory of the Lugansk region. Prepare to vote. Please vote. [[11:57:13]] For 272 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:57:39]] For 278 Decision taken. Next, there is an open-ended roll-call vote supporting the request by Dmitry Lubintz to the President of Ukraine to prevent the further development of the zirconia genealogy in the Mariupal region of the Donetsk region. Please vote. [[11:58:14]] For 209 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:58:37]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Next. Dear colleagues, how about a little quieter in the hall? Have respect, not just for the flowers, but for the mutual respect of one another. [[Applause]] Thank you. It is an open-ended vote to support Igor Guza's request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine with the honour of the Order of the State (after death) to Konoval Evgen Mihajlovich, a prominent political and military leader of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[11:59:30.]] For 241 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, it is up to the President of Ukraine to decide to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:00:00]] For 246 Decision taken. Please show the factions. Thank you. There is an open-ended roll-call vote supporting Alexia Kovalova's request to the President of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory state of road covering the road road of general use of the local value of O-221806 Heroic-Star Storm. Please vote. [[12:00:45.]] For-152. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:01:10]] For-144 The next MP's request. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Alexander Kovalov's request to the President of Ukraine for an audit at the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Please vote. [[12:01:39]] For 263 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:02:05]] For 270. Decision taken. Next question. There is open-ended vote in support of Oksana Savichuk's request to the President of Ukraine for the release of political prisoner Oleg Pridjick, who has been illegally held by the criminal code since October 9, 19th. Please prepare for the vote. Vote. [[12:02:42]] For 257 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:03:07]] For 265 Decision taken. And the last one today is the MP's request. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Alexander Aliksiyczuk's request to the President of Ukraine to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to Eugen Mikhailovich. Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready to vote? Vote. [[12:03:46]] For 241 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:04:09]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, once again I remind you that we are back to work at 12:20. I'm going to read all your MPs' questions right now. I'm going to ask you to be a little quieter. Thus, during the plenary week, 161 MPs were asked, 11 of them to the President of Ukraine, 1 to the Supreme Council, 81 to the Cabinet of Ministers, 52 to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government bodies, and to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of property, 16. MP's questions. Peter Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for receiving information on agricultural land in state ownership. Alexander Kachura to the minister of health of Ukraine regarding spinal atrophy and information on medications for her treatment. Bogdan Thorochti to the Attorney General about the possible inaction of law enforcement agencies. Bogdan Thorochti to the Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the Repair of Roads in Kirovograd. Bogdan Torochtiya to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's board of shareholders on some issues concerning the entrenching of train control centres. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on possible violations of the quality of electricity supply standards. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to provide adequate services to residents in the area of housing and utilities. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide funding for work related to the repair of the road to the village of Mirne Ishmael district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding possible violations of land and water laws in the area of the town of Wilkow Ishmael district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the referral of members of the Starokozac Rural Council of Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk district of Odessa to the reform of land relations and tax administration. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Kyiv City State Administration on the need to repair the road of local importance and ensure road safety. Alexia Zmerenecki to the director of the State Bureau of Investigation, located in Kiev, for depriving the investigative district office of the State Bureau of Investigation, located in Kiev, of the timely referral of criminal materials to the court. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the verification of compliance by a private executive. Andrija Derkač to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the financing of the "Communication Strategy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2017-2021". Vladimir Voronov to the Attorney General on the use of appropriate response measures to restore the rights of citizens violated and to bring those responsible to justice. Vladimir Voronov to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the inaction and abuse of valid legislation governing the management of the Red Star OSBB. Bogdan Kitzak to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of a 60-bedroom residence for military personnel in the city of Berdichev. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reconstruction and/or capital repair of the international crossing points "New Trojans" and "Serpneve 1" as well as the interstate checkpoints "Cannes" and "Maloyaroslav" of the Bologna Region of Odessa. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine to delay the availability of IMG for FAP for a period of 3 years. Maxim Dirdin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of the tax on electricity for residents of the 30km zone near the AES. Maxim Dirdin to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the availability and functioning of the national register of citizens suffering from rare (orphan) diseases and other issues. Sergia Minka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the raiding of the Lobanovski Avenue parking lots, 4-B in the Solomonian district of Kiev. Julia Ioffe to the head of the Lugansk District State Administration, the head of the district military and civilian administration on the need to protect the rights of students at the Rubijan District Sanitary School to obtain education with proper medical support. Oleg Kulinić to the finance minister of Ukraine for ensuring the proper funding of the executive bodies of the rural, rural and urban councils of the relevant territorial community in connection with the performance of their functions, in accordance with Decision No. 1035 of the CMU of 28 October 20. Fedor Venislavski to the Attorney General for information. Fedor Venislavski to the Attorney General for information on articles 36 and 49 of the Ukrainian KPC. Fedor Venislavski to the Attorney General for information on articles 284 and 314 of the Ukrainian KPC. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization and operation of the Commission on Missing Persons under special circumstances. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Attorney General, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the Capital Construction Authority of the Borispilla City Council, Borispilla City Head, Head of the Borispilla Local Prosecutor's Office on the Legality of the Disruption of the Agreement on the Purchase of Works No. 30 of 22 December 2020, composed between Ukrbuding and the Head of the Capital Building of the Borispilla City Council. Dimitar Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine since 23 March 2011 No. 373 "For the establishment of an allowance for teachers of institutions". Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State budget subsidy to pay off the difference in tariffs for KP Stonewater Channel and the debt of this VAT company. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the consideration of inclusion in a centralized database of disability data for the year 2021 for the rehabilitation of the International Rehabilitation Clinic of Kozyavkina Gethmanchuk M.A. Solomy Bobrowski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association, on some of the issues of railway infrastructure and railway connections in the Plain region. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the current state of affairs in Ukrainian-American relations. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the project "Reconstruction of the KP Airport Hmelnicki Airport" with an artificial runway of 500 metres" in the State Airport Development Target Programme until 2023 and its funding. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the state budget for the work project entitled “Capital repair of the road bridge across the Gorin River in the area of the village of the Yampil of the Biological Region of Hmeljna Region”. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to activate investment activities. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for amendments to the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concerning the issuance of a person’s licence to return to Ukraine. Anton Polakov is at the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's shareholders' government regarding the non-admission of illegal alienation of state property. Groups of National Deputies (Sushka, Mikishi and others) to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of Kharkiv District State Administration to provide information on the communal non-commercial enterprise "District Center of Oncology" the city of Kharkiv and the previous legal person of the public health institution "Hark County Clinical Cancer Center". Groups of National Deputies (Monastirski, Mandija and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Community Development and Ukraine’s territories for the allocation from Ukraine’s State Budget of subsidies to local Hmielnicka County budgets to pay off the differences in tariffs. Groups of National Deputies (Mandija, Galajczuk and others) to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to increase the number of employees of the Hmélní region’s administrations. Groups of National Deputies (Mandija, Galajchuk and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, heads of the State Property Fund of Ukraine to facilitate the transfer of property rights to municipal property of territorial communities. Alexia Kovalova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on possible illegal actions and/or the inaction of officials of the Mikolaiow Office of the Odessa Scientific Research Institute of Forensic Experts of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the failure to meet the deadlines for conducting an expert study. Alexia Kovalova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on possible illegal actions and/or the inaction of officials of the Herson Scientific and Criminal Research Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the failure to meet the deadlines for conducting an expert study. Natalia Pippa to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the consequences of the loss of validity of sanitary standards of permissible vibrations in housing. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head about the swinging of House No. 30 on Hutorovka Street in Lviv, caused by vibrations from the activities of AT "Lviv Chemical Plant". Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head on the need to secure the territory of the landscaper of local value "Bilogorst Torfovishte". Alexander Kunicko to the Chief Service Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the Structural Units of the Chief Service Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take all the criteria into account in the distribution of educational subsidies for the city budget of Vladimir Volinsky. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of under-receiving local budgets from excise taxes made in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of fuel. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at restoring the proper and full pay of the work of the officers of the courts. Alexander Kachura to the Attorney General for providing up-to-date information on the use of response measures in criminal investigation regarding the raiding of the "New Perspectives" TOV. Alexia Honcharenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the secretion of information by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on manufacturers and/or suppliers, as well as on prices for vaccines against acute respiratory disease SOVID-19. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of payments for invalidity and disability certificates due to pregnancy and childbirth in January and February 2021. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for possible transfer to the DP concession "Liviv International Airport" by Danil Galicko. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, on the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to Eugene Konovaltz and on his burial to Ukraine. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the head of the Lviv District Public Administration for immediate action to remove the emergency situation of the apartment building in Bíbrka. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, for the provision of a secure internet service for students in general secondary education. Maksim Zariski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the bridge in the town of Stožinec of the Chernieweck region, which was destroyed during the flood of 2010. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funds to complete the construction of international crossing points in the region of Cherniewec. Maxim Zariski to the Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine on speeding up the process of opening international points of entry in the territory of the Chernivecki region. Dmitry Lubinz to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of further production of zirconia in the Mariupal region of the Donetsk region. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to acquire modern equipment to treat children in the NDS "Ohmatdit" MOZ Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection regarding the possible misuse of water services in the city of Killia Odessa. Anatolia Kostuha to the head of the Zacarpathian District Council on the Regional Programme "The Sports Course" 2016-2020. Anatolya Kostucha to the Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine on promoting the employment of Roma national minority representatives during the imposition of quarantine restrictions. Roman Lozinski to the Chief of Staff of the Association of Commerce of the Commercial Bank PRIVATE BANK for the unwarranted closure of the AT branch of the PRIVATE BANK. Roman Lozinski to the Drykovsky City Head for violating the procedure for determining the pay conditions of the city’s head and the appointment of the secretary of the Drykow City Council. July Lighthouse to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the conclusion of the Government Commission on the causes of the emergency that occurred on January 21, 2021, on the street of Lower Giivska, 150 in the city of Kharkiv. July Lightener to Dergachev City Head to provide a copy of the decisions of the Dergachev City Council and letters from the executive committee of the Dergachev City Council of Kharkiv Region. Anton Polakov to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the value of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine (CoviShield), which arrived in Ukraine on February 23, 2021. Alexia Silent to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for information on financial recovery measures at the Bank of Finance and Credit. The Gennady of Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine for the Protection of the Rights of Natural Persons - Consumers of Microcredit Services, the Avoidance of Disaster Financial Consequences for Borrowers who have violated the terms of repayment of small loans and their entry into the "bankhole". Alexander Korneyenka to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the interim responsibility of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for information on the status of vacancies of experts on issues of reform. Alexander Kovalova to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council "On the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions)". Alexander Kovalova to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection for training and training of military personnel at the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Alexander Kovalova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of the Department of Interior polygons. Alexander Kovalova to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Information. Alexander Kovalova to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the use of the Ukrainian Security Service. Tetjana Plačkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Territory of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to finance construction of infrastructure and cultural objects from the 200th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Bolgrad.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Multimodal Transport Act (registration number 4258). There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on a motion to review the draft Multimodal Transport Act (Registration No. 4258) under a reduced procedure. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:25:01]] For-161 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Zivický Dmitry Aleksijovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u136	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration of the draft Ukrainian Multimodal Transport Act introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is designed to improve the legislative regulation of organizational and legal principles for multimodal freight transport in Ukraine, as well as state support for multimodal transport. Ukraine needs to realize its transit potential and use all the possibilities offered by multimodal transport and modern digital technologies. The implementation of Directive 98/106/EC of 7 December 1992 establishing common rules for specific types of combined transport of goods between Member States is envisaged, in accordance with Chapter V of the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine-EC. The bill proposes the introduction in Ukraine of the concept of multimodal and combined transport of goods, multimodal terminal, multimodal transport document, operator and customer of multimodal transport, the definition of a multimodal transport contract, its essential conditions, the rights and obligations of its parties, the basic principles of state regulation and state aid for this type of transport. In particular, it is proposed to strengthen the right of participants in multimodal transport to carry goods on the basis of a single contract, a multimodal transport agreement for all stages of transport, irrespective of the change in modes of transport, and to carry goods in one transport document. Multimodal transport document agreed upon by the parties. In addition, it is suggested that when providing multimodal cargo services, the operator’s responsibility for transporting such cargo to the customer covers a period from the time he accepts the cargo to the multimodal transport and until the delivery of the cargo. In order to obtain compensation for lost and damaged cargo, it is not necessary to determine at what stage of transport damage or loss of cargo occurred, or who of the carriers failed to comply with the obligation to deliver the goods on time. The draft law is provided for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u137	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Kovalov Artem Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u138	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Multimodal Transport Act (Registration No. 4258) (since 23 October 2020) (imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) is aimed at creating a legal basis for regulating this type of transport. In the case of the adoption of the draft law, conditions are created for the development and improvement of multimodal transport as they are defined by the legal, organisational principles of multimodal freight transport, the principles of state support, and the legal status of multimodal transport participants. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the idea of the need for a legal settlement of multimodal transport issues and has made a number of comments to the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues concluded that the bill would have an impact on the budget indicators and would require the spending of state and local budgets to provide state support for multimodal transport. He also commented on the law’s entry into force: If adopted by July 15, 2021, he would have to enter into force no later than January 1, 2022. The Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Integration with the European Union noted that the bill for its purpose does not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations, but needs to be finalized with maximum regard to the provisions of Directive 92/106/EC. The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure at its February 3, 2021 session unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Multimodal Transport Act (registration number 4258) (since 23 October 2020) (imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the bill is very important today. We'll support him. But still, I want to draw your attention once again to these problems that are now facing our citizens. These are the tariff problems, this is the next round of sessions, the meeting, I'm sorry, the Supreme Council, at which we're trying to collect signatures. And now I thank all the deputies who came and signed after my address yesterday. Now, there are 20 signatures left to actually collect and return the taxes on electricity, take this disgraceful payment for transporting gas without transport, take the counters away from consumers, and much more for our people, and, indeed, non-declaration -- the adoption of these bills. Once again, I salute David of Arahama, who, as the founder of this tariff genocide, opposes the gathering of signatures for this next session. Let every Ukrainian know who "the servant of the people" and who really is against the Ukrainians. Once again, I ask all the deputies to sign for this extraordinary session, the Supreme Council meeting to resolve the tariff issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u141	My love, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u142	Hi, colleagues, I want to remind you what multimodal transport is. These are mixed, combined transports, freight transports that provide for the use of at least two different modes of transport under one cross contract. In Europe and in a civilized world, these transports have long been operational, but in Ukraine, unfortunately, they are not yet regulated, these issues. As a colleague from the rostrum said, when he reported, there were a few comments on the Committee for European Integration, and he would need to be further developed and taken into account. And this is actually an urgent bill that I'm proposing to support everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u143	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u144	Thank you. Mr. Head, surely no one is opposed to multimodal transport, to the implementation of European legislation, but he is surprised to see the amendments to Ukraine's Roads Act. As we know, article 29 has already defined the cost of road fares and the concept itself. But in Ukraine and in the experience of the European Union, I want to say that there's not a suitable alternative infrastructure to be implemented, and I want to raise this concept today, that this topic, maybe it should be settled if we had alternative appropriate paths that would be free. And so we're actually putting it in front of the fact that there's going to be a paid road, a fixed price, and then you're actually already a hostage of this situation. And the point is that, for example, individual areas that have already been declared, in the Kyiv region, people go to work every day, so these things are unacceptable. And this is exactly the change, and the Chief Research Administration is referring to the changes in article 25 on road fares in general use, that in the case of the introduction of road fares by road by road, such a fee is paid by all means of transport that travels by such roads except by road vehicles with variable bodies designed to carry goods that are permissible by mass, which is still in accordance with the law. So our big request, we're not going to be sure to support this bill, but just on the basis of that, we're going to be under the transcript to record it, because between the first and second readings, it's going to have to be worked out, and that's the pay-way rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there still willing to speak out of motives? Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Multimodal Transport Act (Registration No. 4258). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:35:48]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (to review the deadlines for establishing natural gas meters for consumers) (registration number 4248-1) (this is second reading). Needed to discuss rights? They're going to insist on law enforcement. Then. Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich, head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, is already present on the rostrum. Number three, Puppy. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Head, I have enough rights, some of them are accounted for, no more than 10. I'd like to speak for three minutes about this bill at all. And then I'm going to say in the course of the speech, which revisions I'm going to insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u147	So three minutes of performance and then we just vote for revisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u148	I'm going to ask you to put some rights to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u149	To the vote. The license numbers, please tell me right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u150	24.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u151	24.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u152	28.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u154	35.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u155	35.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u156	36, 37, 40 and 41.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u157	40 and 41. Please turn on Kucherenka for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The bill under consideration has a very sad history and applies to millions of Ukrainians today. I can give you some bad statistics. So far, 2.1 million households -- about five and a half million Ukrainians -- have no gas count. People who know what they're talking about understand what kind of trouble it is and what accounts they're getting as a result. Why did this happen? As early as the 12th year, a bill was passed, the law of Ukraine, which was commissioned by January 1st, 18th, to complete the accounting of the gas by 100 percent. But there was no control over it. And first of all, I think that the responsibility should be borne by the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Regulation, an authority that we have long since been in autonomous navigation, that licenses this kind of activity and should control it. Sadly, there were both objective and objective reasons. So it was that the program was broken. People were offered, equipped, and equipped with house equipment. And so far, about a million homes have housekeeping. Imagine what it is. It's a colhosp house. And when an old grandmother saves up on a plate to cook food to spend three cubes, then she gets an average of 15-20 or 30 cubes. And unfortunately, I don't see any real mechanisms in this bill today, how to do that. Unfortunately, we're still in the 17th year, and we've given the deadline for counting equipment for three more years. What happened? It took three years, but it almost kept moving. As I said, another 2 million unaccounted for households. And that's why, thanks to both the committee and the committee's head for having a sufficiently constructive conversation with us yesterday on this subject, I find that this accelerated regime, accelerated, that only a week to review the second reading, unfortunately, did not allow us to propose an active parliamentary control mechanism. I really want to be heard by all majors in the first place. You're going to come to the districts, you're going to report, but there's no guarantee of what's going to happen in the next two years, and once again this problem will not be solved for our voters. So, dear friends, if even you understand and support this bill in the second reading, understand that we all need to immediately take full parliamentary control of this very much. The solution to this very big state problem. Thank you for your attention. And all these points in my paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u159	I'm betting on the vote number 24 of Pussy, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:58]] For-94 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a vote of 28 Kucherenka. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:19]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Thirty-five axles. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:38]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thirty-six. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:57]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thirty-seven. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:15]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Forty lacquers. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:36]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And extreme number 41. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:56]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kovalov insists on his work? Don't insist. Stryharski. Don't insist. Black. He insists. 7 rows.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u160	Please add one more minute, I'll get all my changes right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u161	Two minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u163	Two minutes, please turn on Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u164	Colleagues, number seven, are called upon to settle the issue of refusing to set up without the consent of co-owners of multi-room buildings of public gas meters. This refers to a period when the basic law did not determine which counters should be set up, whether by a public building or by an individual or by a gas distribution system, without the consent of the people, they were set up by a public alarm clock. In fact, there are cases where people count 30 cubic feet [30 cubic m] of gas per month. So it turns out that one subscriber uses, for example, 40 cubes of gas, another zero, two of them count 20, I think that's unfair. Thus, the amendment is called upon to resolve this injustice once and for all and to give people the opportunity, coowners of apartment buildings, to refuse to settle for these public - building counters. This is number seven. And Amendment 8, it's aimed at removing the ban on the existing law on the possibility of using local budget funds to finance jobs with population gas counters. I believe that if the city, large cities, are able to finance the program, why not let the local authorities finance the work. Because people deserve to have control over their gas and actually save money. So, colleagues, I'm asking you for number seven and number eight to back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u165	I mean, I get it, 7 and 8 you put on confirmation. I'll bet you vote number seven. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. National MP number seven. [[12:45:32]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment No. 8 of the Black People's Deputy. The committee is also unaccounted for. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:56]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, insists? 11th Amendment. Dear colleagues, invite the national deputies to the hall, there's not much left.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u166	Can I have two minutes of generalization, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u167	Two minutes, please, Father.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, our "For the Future" MP group was making amendments that were not included in the second reading. We think the bill is important and we translate the problem one more time, and the visa is still there. And we see that NCRE is not fulfilling its duties, and consumers, natural gas operators, are failing to perform their duties. We do not solve the problem for our fellow countrymen, it was said, for about five million citizens without gas. So unfortunately, this suggests that the members of the Supreme Council do not fully meet the functions of the nationals, unfortunately. We certainly support it in our second reading, but it is obvious that people will remember it, and you will remember it, who have not supported our adjustments, including. Amendment 11. This amendment makes it clear that only a written refusal to install a counter can be the basis for ending the distribution of natural gas to consumers who use gas only for food preparation. In this case, the bill is simply a refusal, if the population is refused. The current formulation of the rule of law allows the owner to distribute gas, manipulate facts, and refer to the refusal of citizens to establish counters without giving evidence of such refusal, so make it clear that this is a written refusal. And then there's Amendment 20. This amendment suggests that an effective mechanism for the application of NCRE sanctions to natural gas operators be introduced, with corresponding fines of about 25,000 untaxed minimums, is about 400,000 dollars for the failure of counters. At present, the rule of law speaks of the vague notion of the use of such things by the owners. Please support these amendments: Amendment No. 11 and Amendment No. 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u169	I'm betting vote number 11, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. Edit Batenka. [[12:48:32]] For 178. The decision is not taken. And the next item is number 20, Battenka. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:54]] For-154 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, have all the checks been made? Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Everybody ready? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (as regards the review of deadlines for establishing natural gas meters for consumers) (Registration No. 4248-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:49:43]] For 244 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Public Consultation Act (registration number 4254). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:50:17]] For 207 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u170	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the Public Consultation Bill (4254). It is very important that this bill is foreseen in the Supreme Council legislative work plan number 355. And this bill provides for the introduction of important decisions by authorities, executive authorities, local self-governance of public consultations in the form of public debates, e-consultations, targeted consultations. And it's very important that this project is designed to achieve at least three tasks. The first task is to make the activities of all authorities, all organs of the State transparent. The second task is to join citizens in discussing the most important issues in the state, in their community. And the third task that this bill achieves is to make the decisions, actions and activities of the entire state and local self-government predictable, taking into account that all decisions will be made to speak to citizens. The basic things that are foretold. It's a public consultation period. The bill provides that at least 15 days should be allocated to public consultations and appropriate discussions on draft acts. And it's important that in this bill we also give a deadline to prepare the executive and local self-government authorities for six months to take effect by this law to prepare them for the proper procedure. A very important act to make the work of all public authorities transparent, so I ask you very much to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u171	Thank you. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the Construction of Zagorujko Alina Leonidivna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u172	Good day, dear fellows, Your Honourable Lord Chairman! Your opinion is presented by the 4254 bill on public consultations. It's a bill developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and it's designed to define the basic principles of public consultation in the formation and implementation of public policy in the resolution of issues of local importance. Colleagues, our committee, the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development, discussed this bill at its meeting on December 16, 2020, and we discussed it fully. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on Public Consultations (under registration 4254) following a first reading review to be adopted as a basis. I'd like to support you, colleagues. And I'll tell you a few more words from myself. We find that this bill is not ideal, but we understand and understand the need to redraft this bill for a second reading. But this is the bill that our citizens expect of us and we are supported by the entire European community, particularly the Council of Europe and the OSCE. And once again, this bill, it's not about the welfare of subjects of authority, it's not about empty talk, it's about our citizens' participation in the development and adoption of political decisions. Colleagues, please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from several factions to now vote this bill without discussion. There's still a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance, and then we're closing the session. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Public Consultations Act (Registration No. 4254). Ready to vote? Ready? We're voting on the basis. Please support and vote. [[12:55:12]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. Who's speaking? Who? Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u174	There's this Kübler-Ross model about the state of perception of the inevitable. It consists of five stages: denial, anger, trade, depression, and then acceptance. I want to remind you that the story with the "vagners" developed quite perfectly with this model. At first, the President’s Office was denied that there was such a special operation. Then they got angry. And everyone who talked about breaking up a special operation with the Wagnerians went to the D.B.I. where they were asked, and where they got that information. I, Yuri Butusov, Janina Sokolova, other journalists all went. It was anger. And now we're going to the bidding stage when deputy Jermak says that maybe the previous president has failed the whole operation. So they admit that there was at least a special operation for "vagners" even though they can't even figure out that only a valid president can have access to the details of the operation at the final stage. And that's why we want to remind ourselves once again that we're demanding to create a temporary commission of inquiry right now and move on without depression to acceptance. Because depression will be preferable, especially after the world's leading television channels and platforms produce Bellingcat's film investigation of what actually happened with the Wagner case. And the investigation will then look at the whole world. But we can now conduct this investigation here in Parliament, and we need not have access to classified information, we need to have access to information, as was happening in the President's Office in July, by the end of July 2020, and what happened, why the final part of the special operation was destroyed. "European Solidarity," other opposition forces demand that we immediately put to the vote in the Supreme Council and create a temporary commission of inquiry so that we can get answers to those questions that have long been asked before Bellingcat's air of investigation, which have already earned a reputation for serious and thorough investigations into hot subjects. So let's not hide, but let's create a TSC and continue our search for someone who betrayed Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-05-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, once again with the coming festival! I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
