ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall and prepare for registration. Dear national deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I invite you to the hall. Please invite me to the hall, Your Honor. In connection with the request made by the President of Ukraine according to part. Dear colleagues! Everybody with the world again! Please take your seats. In accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the convening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth occasion and in accordance with article 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are holding an extraordinary meeting today. the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. The President of Ukraine is invited to consider the draft Law (Registration No. 5712) on the Great State Herb at the next session. Are you ready to register, Your Honor? Everybody ready to sign up? I'll be right back. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green button first left or green, as always, you know. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[14:38:03]] There are 271 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of two of our colleagues: the national deputies Igor Aleksandrovitch Abramovich and Mikoli Ivanovich Kucher. Health, Strength! [[Applause]] Surrender, yes. Let us take a look at the draft Law (registration number 5712). I'm sorry, there's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u2	Dear friends! I welcome you all to this great and bright festival. On this day, more than ever, we must be honest with each other. Because we are honest, we are deeply outraged by the fact that we were not invited to a celebration, to the adoption of the Marian MPs of the first call that voted for independence. It is in protest that President Peter Poroshenko is here with us now, and then he will join us in joining the Veterans' March, to which I invite you all. Now we're going to talk about the coat of arms and we have to be honest again. Do You Remember History, Friends? In this march of veterans there will go the boys whom this coat of arms-occupiers cut out on their backs, torture them. But all those who have this coat of arms in their heart will go -- our Ukrainian trident. Today we are offered to make another mystication, and it is not that simple. I'm going to go back to the story. At one time, the Communists, hating our trident, tried to do their best to blur the symbol. And that's when they wrote in the Constitution that there should be other elements, such as Cossack. But then, we have to give proper wisdom to both Victor Yushchenko and Julia Timoshenko, who did not bring into the room the project that is about to be voted on. And I believe that the Motherland Party, as honestly as it is now, and the other forces do not support this hoax. Have you read this law? This coat of arms depicts the crown of Jaroslav the Wise. But Jaroslav had no crown of wisdom. The crown was in Vladimir the Great, as we can see from some frescoes. And our first kings are Jaropolk, and then Danilo, who was given this title by the Pope. We didn't have any other kings. Jaroslav Wise is a magnificent figure, but on this holy day we cannot spoil our coat of arms, our tridents with these mysticisms into a bargain of cheap pyar. Have you seen this coat of arms? Have you seen this lion, where two left legs are drawn? Aren't you ashamed? Will your children not be ashamed? Once again, this is the coat of arms that every warrior has in his heart. Our trident is unique, it has a thousand-year history. When the Ukrainian soldiers fought, they held him in their hearts, holding him on their shields from the beginning, remembering our many years of history. By supporting Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian people, we claim that we will not participate in this shameful vote, we will not turn our worthy coat of arms into a mockery for the sake of the cheap pyar of the power of perpetuation, because the responsibility for this will be very great. Our coat of arms, our trident in everyone's heart, join the veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u3	Let's move on to the question. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Great State Herb of Ukraine (register No. 5712). Dear colleagues, before we go into question, there was an agreement with all the MP factions and groups, and we'll have a first-call reward in the hall. There was an offer to follow the algorithm: 2 minutes of the reporter, 2 minutes of the committee and 2 minutes each faction, then not to follow the full procedure. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u4	Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. First of all, it is a great privilege for me to present today the Presidential draft of the Law on the Great State Herb of Ukraine. At the same time, this is a big responsibility, because today I was supposed to be the reporter for the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, one of the nationalists of our country, one of the people who gave our country independence. So I want to convey to Leonid Makarovich our deep respect and to wish for the quickest recovery. And I very much hope that on the second reading he will be with us in this room. Today, the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, signed the historic decree on Ukraine's Statehood Day, which is over a thousand years old. But statehood is not just a story or an interpretation of it, but primarily a question of symbols, just the basic things that symbolize it. In his association with Leonid Makarovich, he was always concerned that in 25 years we had failed to meet the requirement of article 20 of the Ukrainian Constitution and had not accepted the great State Herb. Because only with the adoption of the great State Herb can we close the gestal of state symbols. And that was a historic request from the first president of Ukraine to the present one. At the same time, the trident will remain the main and most used coat of arms of our nation. Because this is the legacy of the equal prince of Vladimir the Great, which we must preserve and multiply. Of course we'll hear it today, we've heard many interesting thoughts from the Heraldists. But I just want to show you pictures. This coat of arms was presented both on the walls of others who had just left the hall. The bill therefore proposes to reduce the use of the great Herb. And given the above, on behalf of the President of Ukraine, he asked to gather around the adoption of a historic decision for the entire Ukrainian people and to support the bill (registration number 5712) on a basis, and on the day of 30th anniversary, to give our Ukraine the great State Herb of Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u5	The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I welcome us all once again with the 30th anniversary of the independence of our state. I think we've talked a lot about symbols today. And the Great State Herb is an important symbol that our founding fathers, who asked them not to call them, have written in the Constitution in 20 articles, which, I want to remind them, can only be changed by referendum. Let's try to do the will of the Constitution and adopt the Law on the State Herb, the Great State Herb. On July 14th, our committee considered the bill at its 5712 meeting, introduced by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, and defined it as urgent. In accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, the bill defines the description of the great State Herb, establishes order and requirements for the use of his image, and regulates the issue of respect for the great State Herb and the responsibility for violating the requirements for the order of use. There's the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Our committee adopted the conclusions of the discussions to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the Great State Herb (registration number 5712) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. If the bill is adopted, we propose that the committee be entrusted with the preparation of the bill for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Parliament, of its technical and legal work. I want to remind you that, despite the fact that this is a constitutional bill, it's adopted by a total of 300 votes, but the practice of considering similar laws, it is, it's given to us by a regulatory committee. The first reading is a vote of 226 and can continue to be amended, as with the ordinary bill, in a textual form, as well as in sketches, because this is a graphic picture. So if we accept in general, we accept in general, and if we expect in the first reading, we expect legal rights from fellow members of the national MPs. Please support the President's initiative and move gradually towards the adoption of the great State Herb. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u7	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, don't yell or break the Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u8	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, the government, the guests invited, the deputies of all calls, dear Ukrainians! Welcome to the Jubilee. 30 years of independence is a beautiful, beautiful anniversary. Your grandparents could only dream of such a Jubilee. And today we are joyfully celebrating such an important anniversary of an independent Ukraine! It's been completely difficult for 30 years. You and I, our parents and our first parents, have been able to stand firm and protect our independence. But we paid too much for it, the most expensive of all, the lives of our heroes, the heroes of the Celestial 100, the heroes of the East War. Today, we continue to fight for our independence. And it's thanks to our military, our defenders, like the soldiers of the legendary 24 brigades, all the brigades, the victory will soon be upon us. And what distinguishes us from our neighbors? First of all, this is our Ukrainian gracious, solo language, and our national symbols are our National Hymn, our Flag and our Herb. Trident, of course, is one of the best heroic signs in the world. Today, too, we are invited to accept the great State Herb, the foundation of which will be the trident. On the right will be the coat of arms of the Zaporozhyk Army and on the left will be the Galicko-Volinsk Principality. It'll have a blue and yellow ribbon, wheat pellets, and cauldrons. And this will certainly highlight your Ukrainian identity and Ukrainian identity. With the celebration of you, Ukrainians! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u9	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u10	First of all, today we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the restoration of Ukraine’s independence. Many generations of Ukrainians have chosen to be independent. First of all, he would urge us all to thank once again all the Ukrainians for our independence. [[Applause]] Sadly, however, on such a great day and on such a great day, our Parliament should consider a matter that does not unite the Ukrainians, but, sadly, disunites them. The President of Ukraine, sadly, has decided to resurrect the harmful idea of the great Herb, a herb that is more a sign of monarchy, a sign of empires, and is the survival of our imperialistic past, which is to go forever into the historical past of treasures. I want to talk to every Ukrainian, our coat of arms is trident, trident, a thousand-year-old trident of Volodymyr, which the Ukrainians have covered with blood all these years, including in the east right now. And I want to go to my fellow national MPs before voting for this harmful decision that will wash the perfect coat of arms -- trident, answer your question, and whose idea was that? And this is a historical fact, it was a consensus with the offer of the communists after 20 votes, that the coat of arms of the trident wasn't approved. Answer the question of why an aggressor, the Russian Federation, burns so badly from a perfect coat of arms. Please don’t let our perfect coat of arms — trident — and we don’t support this harmful idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u11	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u12	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. With Ukraine's Independence Day! Dear friends, today is the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. And I would like to thank the millions of Ukrainians who have given their lives for an independent Ukraine. I would like to express my gratitude to Poland and Canada, who first recognized an independent Ukraine right after the declaration of the Ukrainian Independence Act, our diaspora, the World Congress of Ukrainians, who fought for and for its recognition in various countries of the world. Today we are considering a bill on the great Herb of Ukraine. Our coat of arms is a trident. And "Fatherland" has always supported the trident as the State Herb of Ukraine and it will be, it will be in our hearts, it will be in our hearts. And I remember today times when the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted when it was adopted with the Communists, with many exceptions and compromises, to be the Constitution, and how the Declaration of Independence Act voted with the Communists to be an independent Ukraine. Today, there are 46 delegations from around the world who, despite their desire to do business with Russia, signed the Crimean Declaration, the Crimean Platform to confirm that the Ukrainian State must restore its territorial integrity and integrity in all its borders. Likewise today, when we now vote in the first reading for the State Herb of Ukraine, the great State Herb, we must do everything in our power to make this Herb worthy of the Ukrainian state. And we have a huge responsibility. Today the lion was mentioned as having two left legs on a large coat of arms. You know, I don't care as much as I care about the two heads of this Siamese eagle in Crimea, on the borders of Ukraine and on Donbas. And our job is not to have this eagle on Ukrainian soil. Here's our problem. And Parliament must be united on such important days and especially on Ukraine’s Independence Day. With the celebration of all. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u13	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Ukrainian people, our parliamentary group, the Party for the Future, joins the sincere greetings of the great holiday -- the restoration of Ukraine's declaration of state independence. Many and pleasant summers for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. In this room we mentioned many people who had done so. Give God’s health to the first president of the restored Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, who is to report on the matter. But I want to mention the names of other people who have done the same. First of all, the person who would celebrate today's birthday is the author of the Act of State Independence of Ukraine Leukko Lukyanenko, and these are people like Mikhailo Gorn, such as Vejacheslav Crnowil, who should be remembered. Because these people have passed the prisons and camps before the declaration of an independent Ukraine, because "it is only he who deserves freedom and will who goes to battle for it every day," Goethe. You know, my friends, Ukraine has always balanced between republicanism and traditionalism with the dynastic signs of millennium history, 1917-1918 years ago is a great example. Whether the great Herb has the right to life, in the Constitution it is prescribed, it has. If in most countries of the world this is a sign of the monarchy of the past, I think that Ukraine has patterns of different state structures, both monarchy and republican. The foundation of this great Herb, I think, should be the principles and search for the will, and the freedom of the Ukrainian nation, and they lie there. Ukraine has always longed for freedom, as Walter wrote, and we will support these aspirations and so of democracy in this Herbie, including, because freedom and democracy are in the genes of the Ukrainian nation, this is our future. We vote for our future, for the great Herb of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u15	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u16	Dear Ukrainians. "European Solidarity" welcomes you to the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. The basis of our statehood is the army, language and faith. And it's wonderful that after two years of curvature, that the military parade is a waste of money, we returned the military parade, and Khrishtika took a step in the new Ukrainian technique created in 2014-2019. Independence Day is a Day of Unity. And it's a shame that they're trying to split society and parliament today. Our language, our coat of arms, our anthem is what shakes the enemy like hell. This is 20-year-old Basil Pelish, and the Russian invaders cut him off, cut his hand off for having our coat of arms on ours, our trident. The trident in our military is not just on our hands, it's in our hearts, and today we have no right to betray the Ukrainian army. And if today the MPs who voted for independence tell us that this "political vigret" that you brought into the session room is a disgrace, let's hear it. Let's not let Zelensky repeat this mistake when they're not invited to the parade or invited to the Marian Palace, let's not vote for what our colleagues are calling us to today from the first call. Our coat of arms is trident, it's concise, it's historical, it's politically correct, it's one of the symbols of the state. And what I want to say is that the Constitution of Ukraine requires 300 votes for making changes. 20th Article of the Constitution. You don't have the right to vote this "political venegret" on a historical or moral basis today. We urge you to stop! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u17	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u18	Dear Ukrainians, with the Day of Independence! I want to begin my speech with a reference to the Constitution of Ukraine, namely to the preamble. I want to remind everyone that the Constitution of Ukraine is adopted by the Supreme Council on behalf of the Ukrainian people, citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities. I would like to remind the audience, including the political opposition, that is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that the adoption of the Supreme Council of the Constitution is the implementation of the act of establishing power of the Ukrainian people. What does that mean? This means that the Ukrainian people, through the Supreme Council, authorized us with you, the legislators, to approve the great State Herb. It's not a choice! It is not freedom of choice, it is our duty to comply with the direct imperative standard of the Constitution of Article 20 and to adopt the great State Herb. There may be a lot of discussions about the heroic features of any aspect of the great State Herb of Ukraine, but it is a work of art that will never be widely accepted by all artists. But the symbol of Ukraine is the State Flag, this is the State Hymn and this is the State Herb. And the symbols of Ukraine are that they have to unite Ukraine, unite Ukrainian national deputies in this room. And I am deeply convinced that today's vote for the realization of the will of the Ukrainian people to have a great State Herb will demonstrate who is who. The People's Political Party will vote in favour, and I think all the patriotic forces will support our initiative and initiative of our President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-08-24-m1.u19	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] You know the rules. And I know him, unlike many of my colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the Supreme Council is defined. Dear colleagues, with all due respect, let us honor each other and work together. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Great State Herb of Ukraine (Registration No. 5712). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:04:22]] For 257 Decision taken. Based on the base. [[(Applause) (Noise in the hall)]] Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, in addition to the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, I declare closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Thank you.
