ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, we are now, as we agreed, starting our shift. Honorable National Deputies, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You will be given a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for your electronic registration. Take your seats. And I remind you that once you've started the registration, you have to touch the sensor button by holding the sensor button, pressing the "Z" green button, and keeping these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, that is to say, the results on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? Please register. [[15:21:51]] There are 221 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you are familiar with the order of the day's emergency meeting, the questions are given to you, and so we move on to the first question. The first question is to consider a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to simplify the procedures for expertization, registration of plant varieties and crop rotation) (project registration number 3680, 3680-1, 3680-d). Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer (please take your seats, because we're going to need 150 votes) to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. First question. Once again, 3680, 3680-1, 3680-d is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to simplify procedures for expertization, registration of plant varieties and crop rotation). Do you understand, colleagues? I'm asking you to consider these bills by a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:23:34]] For 205 Decision taken. I would like to invite the rapporteur, the national deputy of Ukraine, Halimon Pavel Vitaliovich. Please, Paul Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! An agrarian and land policy committee of Ukrainian National Deputies registered on June 18, 2020 (registration number 3680) (registration number 3680). The purpose of this bill is to improve a number of provisions of Ukrainian laws on the protection of plant variety rights and on seed and vegetable material on the procedure of expertizing new plant varieties and simplifying the procedure for importing seeds and vegetable material into Ukraine. However, following a repeated review of this and alternative bill No. 3680-1, a joint decision was taken on the basis of these two projects, which regulate the same circle of issues, a new draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the Protection of Plant Variety and Seed and Gardening Material. Our team of authors also contributed to its development. The joint work resulted in a bill (registration number 3680-d). And that's why we're supporting the bill's co-worked committee (registration number 3680-d) and we're asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it as well. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u3	Thank you, Paul Vitaliovich. The author of the alternative bill, National Deputy of Ukraine, Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich, is invited to the floor. Next time? Okay. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy, Schol Margarita Vitaliyevna, is invited to attend. Please, Marguerite Vitaliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u4	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The committee at its meeting on June 30, 2021, reviewed draft laws (registers 3680 and 3680-1). But because of the large number of comments made to them by GNEU, COVW, and the leading industry associations, the committee did not support any bill and decided on the development and registration of the amended draft Law (registration number 2680-d), which takes into account the situation of the two projects and regulates the issues that make it more difficult at present to conduct expert studies of new varieties of plants and deprive agrarians of access to modern varieties and hybrids of agricultural plants. So the new bill is proposed. To bring into line with international legislation the terminology certified by international treaties and EU legislation. Optimize the registration process. Define clear order of operations and timelines for each stage of class expertise. Enter the standard for electronic document processing and registering in the only automated database. To regulate the clear distribution of powers of the competent authority and of the authorized expert institution. To regulate and reduce preparation periods and the number of decisions taken regarding the acquisition of intellectual property rights per class. Order the requirements for simplifying the introduction into Ukraine of seed samples for researched selective purposes. Give the right to the issuer of certificates that define the classification of seed by category "seed certified" by the certification body of any form of ownership. The members of the committee expressed support for a revised draft of the bill (registration number 3680-d) amending the laws of Ukraine on the protection of plant rights and on seed and gardening material. And they decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading of the bill, to adopt it as a basis. Please support the committee's decision and accept the project (registration number 3680-d) as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u5	Thank you, Marguerite Vitaliy. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is that right? Then I'd like you to sign in: two in, two in, and two in, against the discussion of this project. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u6	Please pass the word to Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u7	National MP of the Black Seas, please. Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, look, this bill has been attended by a lot of associations, including producers, farmers and, above all, people who are involved in the development of hybrid varieties of plants that are currently in a very difficult position in Ukraine, regarding the fact that we actually have some kind of monopoly on their certification. This bill allows, first of all, to regulate the market for seed and plant certification. And secondly, it allows more than 150 inspectors to be employed who are currently waiting for this bill to be passed. And most importantly, this bill regulates the trade security of our country. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u11	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u12	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! For the time being, the national registration of the seed provides for a series of bureaucratic procedures that may not make life easier for our agrarians. And this bill proposes to organize this process, to make it easier, to bring it into Euro-Integration Standards. We're obviously going to support this as European Solidarity. The only thing I'd like to point out, colleagues. If you are serious about integrating yourself and doing everything that is enshrined in the Constitution as strategic goals, there is no need to initiate procedures for regular extracurricular sessions. European integration involves a tiny system of daily work. This means that we can each week, for example, have a Euro-Integration Day or Euro-Integration Hour. And then we will really implement the task of implementing the Association Agreement, and really bring Ukraine closer to the goal that our citizens have set for ourselves, we have determined during the Dignity Revolution and as we wage war against Russian aggression. So, colleagues, I'm just urging you to stop selling a nice piano bubble to Ukrainian citizens, presenting your work in the wake of a seemingly Euro-Integration on a single day as part of a purely off-limits session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u13	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. I got it right, didn't I? Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u14	Dear Society, Reverend Mr. Head, my friends! We can't support this bill. This is the result. Selection, descent, genetics is a matter of food security for every nation. Agriculture, like Ukraine, that's why. Friends, just a few years ago, Ukrainian wheat from the Moroccan selection, near Mironovka, the name of Ramesla, occupied the world’s largest area. The selection of Odessa for southern Ukraine, the Dniprov Institute, was previously called the Institute of Corn. There were our own hybrids, varieties. The same is true of vegetable crops that are corrupt and so forth. Where's all this? Today, half of Ukraine’s agrarians have been beaten to death. We forbade the carriage, indeed, from the aggressor country of Cuban selection seed because it doesn't have its own. Why not? But it's because we don't finance. The gruesome thing, it's very difficult, it's burdensome -- the job of the selector: to collect genetic material, the areas of hybridization, the areas of reproduction, and then it went away. It's not cheap, it's intellectually and financially expensive work. What are we doing now? We're opening up more borders, we're moving even more. And so poor in this market, how unverified, how insecure, and we liberalize even more. Guys, we need to stop, we need to do fundamental strategic stuff. We can't support this bill. Either we need to work out, there are good things here, or we need to work very seriously, or we need to work on strategic things -- Ukrainian selection, descent and genetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I think that the representative of the famous city of Mariupol has already presented his position on this bill fairly. We are, of course, supporting it, like all the Euro-Integration Right Initiatives that are aimed at deregulation. I've had a lot of calls from business associations, from agrarian associations to support in the first reading, so I think we're voting in favour, and that's what I'm calling on other colleagues from other factions to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, anyone else want to speak? Please, I see, Shahov. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Until I pass the word to Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u18	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill, we need to clean up the bureaucratic mechanism that has long been rusty, and we need to approach it comprehensively in any area of the process. We need to work with the Kabmin in these processes and put bills into the hall, not just to the people's deputies, who today, by talking to the agrarians who are facing the bureaucracy that is on the ground, cannot solve many problems. These are not only problems today in sodding material and licensing, and so on, these are problems in road coverings. In Soviet times, there were no cars that drove 60 tons [60 tons] on the road and smashed them. Today, harvesters, like graves, are at every turn in rural areas. Do not go from Trooticka, Bilovodsk, to Bilocurakin, Milovsky district, Novopskow district. This too needs to be noted. Thank you. I support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the protection of plant rights and on seed and vegetable material. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:36:04]] For 260 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill is our second reading, the draft Energy Efficiency Act ( bills No. 4507). Dear colleagues, is there anyone who will insist? I see it's only Mrs. Alona Skrum. Yeah, there's more, I see. Then only three authors will insist, right? Mrs. Alona, 1 change of yours. Please. We agreed on an amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u20	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, I really have a lot of changes, but I'm only going to take one, and I'm going to say good things and bad things. Well, first of all, let's talk about good, because it's very cool that this bill is finally in order of the day. I have the honor of being a co-author. But in fact, the bill has a huge history, a huge team, has been working since 2015. And I would like to thank all the people who worked on it. This is also my good colleague Alexy Rybchin, and Helen Byda, and Vladimir Butchik, and others, the Office for Reforms of the Region, the Secretariat of the Energy Community, and other colleagues of ours. Thank them so much for that. This bill is certainly worthy of being voted on. But let's also talk about the challenges that there are. Because some of the norms were not included. For example, energy efficiency in buildings was somehow excluded. This is a huge problem for us today. And more than a third of free electricity comes from that. Second of all, the fund is not working today. Of the 800 applications, only 25 were satisfied. That's why we need a government homework here. And we're voting on the bill. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u21	Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich. Can you please name the amendment you're going to make?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u22	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u23	523rd, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u24	529.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u25	529. Please start reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, this is certainly a necessary bill. We thank the developers and the head of the committee, Mr. Herus, and Mr. Nagorniak. But believe my experience, if this is not taken into account, it won't fly. Because it's the right thing to do. I am grateful for the support of the previous law on the development of state energy-generating programmes for the housing fund, the state energy-generating programme for the thermal power utility, and the state power-generating programme for water-channels. But if we don't spend the money on it, it's going to be the same fate as the Energy Efficiency Act in buildings. It won't fly. So I very much ask my colleagues, including the interfractional association led by your colleague, Mr. Tishchenko, to support this amendment and to start a full-scale process of energy-generating the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u27	What is the position of the committee on this issue? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u28	The committee did not support this amendment. But let us judge the hall then, let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u29	Okay. 529 revisions. The committee's offering to reject it. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[15:39:31]] For-157. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And another amendment, I saw, Lozinski, right? It's a slogan. And people's deputy mushroom is the right thing to do. Please, the national MP of Lozinski. Is that the correcting number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” There are several amendments. They were more technical. I want to pay attention to one right now. And that's a really important technical step. Article 13 “The Principles of the Foundation’s Review of an Application”, which is set out in article 13. It's very important to keep all the steps in the fund program in this description, because otherwise it makes it very difficult to understand and understand the program itself. Therefore, the important detail for it to be structured by object and by subject contained the actions of beneficiaries who were not involved in the Fund’s application procedure, which prevents the Fund from simplifying its own procedures. But there's no politics, there's no other conceptual differences. This, colleagues, is Amendment 473. It's actually what the Energy Efficiency Fund colleagues insisted that, yes, the law itself needed to be supported would work better. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u31	Amendment 473. What is the position of the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u32	The committee didn't count. And I wouldn't want us to balance the law right now, because this bill and the law were being worked on by an entire team of experts. We've been working for more than two weeks, we've been working on the paperwork, we've been working on and balanced as much as possible, and we've done a bill between the first and the second readings at best, I think. So I don't think we should be balancing right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u33	Roman Mikhailovich, do you insist on putting her to the vote? Then I put to the vote 473 amendments to the national deputies of Lozinski and Vasilchenko. Please identify and vote, please. [[15:41:43]] For-66 The decision is not taken. And please, the last author to insist is the People's Deputy Mushroom. Start with the repair, the number, so I can find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u34	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have a lot of changes, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u35	Just a performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u36	It's just a show.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u37	Please give the people's deputy a 2 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u38	Thank you. Colleagues, a very important bill. But what Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko said is critical. Even if we accept this bill, and I have no doubt that we will accept it today, we still need to put money into Ukraine's budget for 2022. We've already failed the amendment, we haven't voted, but let's at least, whenever there's a possibility, and I have, including, because we've been applying for a national budget for the 22nd year, we're still going to support the money application for this article. If there is no money, no law will work. And so thank you all very much, because the country is suffering from an energy crisis today, and we need to do energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that all the amendments, the rest of them, we're not going to bet on either confirmation or consideration. So I move on to the proposal that the committee adopt a draft Energy Efficiency Act (registration number 4507) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal regulations. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[15:43:38]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next law, we have this first reading, Bill 4527. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Combined Heat and Electricity Production (Cogeneration) and the Use of Saving Energy Potential) on the Development of Highly Effective Cogeneration. Dear colleagues, before we begin our consideration of the matter, I suggest that we consider it as a simplified procedure. I would like to remind you that we need to vote on 150 votes. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:44:35]] For 236 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the address of Deputy First Minister of Energy Yuri Mikolaiovich Vlasenk. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u40	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. Your view is proposed by the draft Law on the Development of Highly Effective Cogeneration, developed by Minnergo together with DergenergoEffectiveness. The aim of the bill is to align the current legislation of Ukraine with the principles and regulations of European Union legislation in the area of the development of high-efficiency cogeneration, such as EU directives. In order to achieve this objective and to ensure greater efficiency of fuel use and environmental safety, the draft law provides for terminology for the use of highly effective cogeneration in accordance with EU directives. An analysis of the cost and potential of high - efficiency cogeneration for heat - generating objects of more than 200 megawatts. Setting the qualified indicators to match a high-efficiency cogeneration unit. Providing guarantees for the origin of electricity produced from high efficiency cogeneration. The adoption of the bill will help create conditions for the development in Ukraine of a highly effective co-generation with respect to the principles and regulations of EU legislation. By transforming existing heat - generating objects into high - efficiency installations for combined electricity and thermal energy production. Enhancing fuel efficiency and reducing energy consumption, such as gas in social production. The adoption of the Ukrainian Bill will hold a worthy place among States that support and stimulate the development of highly effective cogeneration at the legislative level. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u41	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Take your place. I invite the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Andry Mikhailovich Gerus, to report. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u42	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This is the second Euro-Integration Bill proposed by our committee today. There's going to be a third, so I'm asking you to support them all. The corresponding bill 4527 was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm drawing your attention, this bill is planned for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraph 181. I'll also point out that adoption of the bill will help reduce fuel consumption to the energy unit produced and reduce the cost of energy produced. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill (registration number 4527) to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. My colleagues would like to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u43	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich, especially for such refinement as "Elei per soul." Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u44	Please pass the word to my colleague Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u45	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, welcome! And that's a very good and right law. Alexei Honcharenko, "European Solidarity", we will vote in favour of this bill. But I want to pay attention to everything that's going on in the energy field in our country. Preparation for the fall-winter period has failed, you know, from the word "full." Imagine the gas reserves that were in the gas shelters at the beginning of the fall-winter period last year -- 28 billion cubic meters, at the beginning of this -- 18.5. It's 10 billion cubic meters less. Coal in warehouses of 600,000 tons is less than necessary for the fall-winter period. What does the authorities plan to do? The government is planning to open up imports of Belarusian and Russian electricity, and it's going straight to November 1st. And that's, you know, so shocking when we owe our own miners, when Minenergo asks through the government and the Supreme Council to add 2.1 billion dollars to the miners' payments, at this point we're sending money, and we're going to do it again, from November 1st to Belarus and the Russian Federation, the Aggressor Country and the Putin Vashal Lukashenko. Instead of funding our own miners and energy workers, we will finance those countries that today pose a threat to the state. How could that be? With gas, Putin is now sitting and wiping his hands and waiting for Ukraine to bring gas to his lap. Of course, this cannot be allowed, but how could it not be purchased in the spring and early summer gas into the Ukrainian gas depots? Which is our unique feature, that we have these gas shelters with a capacity of more than 30 billion cubic meters. It's a shame to be such a trainee! And the law must be voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u47	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Black Sea Artem Olegovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u48	I give the word to the Mayor Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u49	Andrew, Victorovich, I think, County. Andrew County, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u50	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The adoption of this bill is aimed at aligning the existing legislation of Ukraine with the principles and provisions of European Union legislation in the area of the development of high efficiency cogeneration, in particular Directive 2004/8 and Directive 2012/27. The creation of conditions for the development of high-efficiency cogeneration in Ukraine will ultimately improve fuel efficiency and reduce the consumption of natural gas in social production. The bill will help to rebuild existing heat - generating facilities into high - efficiency facilities for combined electricity and heat production, as well as to promote the economic promotion of high - efficiency cogeneration facilities in enterprises of different forms of property. I urge you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u51	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u52	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. My fellow Members, of course, it is very good that we have come today to consider individual initiatives in the field of energy, namely those that are approaching Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation. The Voice party will undoubtedly support this bill as well as other Euro-integration initiatives. Why is this important? And why, in principle, does this bill need to be supported? What is cogeneration, how it can help in the future, something in the distance, but still help Ukraine solve those energy problems that we face. We need to keep in mind that Ukraine is spending much more energy, and most of the energy spending is going to GDP. We are extremely inefficient in the use of our energy, we have to do this much more effectively, and it is this bill that brings us closer to the performance standards that work within Europe, the European Union. Today, for example, we have many enterprises that work, in the process of producing some kind of energy, heat energy, but have no motivation, no mechanisms, how to use it further to heat up either Ukrainian housing or use it for our own needs. In Sweden, for example, this generation allows for about 9 percent of the global heat demand. That is what Ukraine can do. And it's very good that we're taking steps to get closer to European standards and European approaches. It's a shame, of course, what we're doing today, at a time when the heating season is starting, while the bill was already ready by the committee for consideration early in the summer. I would like us to address in a timely manner the problems that will inevitably arise and to consider in a timely manner the legislative initiatives that this Parliament is preparing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u53	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u54	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to a colleague of the Kucherenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u55	Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u56	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there is no need to convince anyone that cogeneration is a standard of energy development in Europe today and that it is a good thing. It's also obvious, both in Sweden and Denmark, and everywhere in the countries where we went on tours, we saw how it worked there. But I want to focus your attention on whether it will work with us? Before we talk about investing in Ukraine's energy, let's look at what's happening on our famous energy market, which we've recently celebrated for two years, a new model. And by the way, I'm paying attention to my esteemed colleagues, from "Serve of the People," with all due respect, this energy situation is model. Because he started working together and one minute with you coming to power. This is the very case where it is difficult to transfer responsibility to someone. I'm guessing there's about 40 billion dollars of damage and debt there today, a corrupt network company called Ukrenergo. We see what huge problems today are in investors who put money into green energy. We see that today, unfortunately, we will probably have to go for electricity. And this indicates that this energy supply is being misregulated. And I want to point out that the "Paternity" faction certainly supports this Euro-Integration Law. It will have to be followed according to the comments made by GNEU. By the way, questions. How does the government prepare a bill that is banal and correct? But until we figure out what's going on on our energy market, and why we don't have any institutions in this model, these bills will sound empty by now. But we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u57	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, who else does? I see. Come on. Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. After that, Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! First of all, I wanted to thank President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski for the very right initiative: calling this extraordinary meeting. Our MPs are going to vote for all the bills that are energy-efficient, because that's useful from every point of view. So in order not to take your attention, I support Alexia Kucherenka's words. At the same time, our "For the Future Party" is calling on the President and on a large scale with a huge request to initiate another extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council to consider doubling the production of its natural gas and selling it to Ukrainians at the price of the manufacturer, not more than 1 bracelet. We very much hope that you are responsible for the ability of the Ukrainians to pay these disproportionate tariffs at this difficult time. We look forward to supporting each other with two hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u59	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u60	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, we also fully support modernization and cogeneration in the energy sector. I'd like to ask, who's going to answer today while there's a profile minister in the hall, who's going to answer today. Almost a new year on the nose, who will pay and where will the money be taken: 1 billion 850 million dollars to the suffering miners? From Lviv, from Donetsk district, Luhansk district, how many miners will stand with their arms stretched out with their wives and children? Next thing you know what's going on. Why on Donbas today is the price of electricity 4.18 and 5.70? External electricity paid for by taxpayers today. Who Will Answer? Is the war just on Donbassa? Again, the question to the Ministry of Energy. Why is today a practically heated season that colleagues have been talking about? There's 600 million tons of coal in storage. It should.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, thank you very much, we have concluded our discussion of the matter. We're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we are moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Combined Heat and Electricity (Cogeneration) Production and Use of Saving Energy Potential) on the Development of Highly Effective Cogeneration (registration number of the bill 4527). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:00:18]] For 282 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues, the law is adopted in the first. based on the base. Let's move on, fellows. The next bill is second reading, 5464. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Alternative Fuel Act on Biomethane Development (project 5464). I invite the head of the energy and utility subcommittee, Mr. Andriy Viktorovich. He already is. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? No one will. No one will, thank you. Thank you. It's constructive. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft of the Ukrainian Alternative Fuels Act on Biomethane Production Development (project registration number 5464) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal regulations. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:01:47]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next question. The next question is first reading, Bill No 6055. This is a draft of the National Commission Act, which regulates national electronic communications, radio spectrum, and postal services (6055). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? Yes. Then let us first vote on the issue by means of a reduced procedure. To do that, we need 150 votes. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:02:48]] For 230 Decision taken. I would like to invite the rapporteur, deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee, Alexander Pavlovich Fedienka. Alexander Pavlovich, I understand that you are both from the authors and from the committee, so four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u62	Colleagues, I present to you the Bill (6055) on the National Commission for National Regulation in the field of electronic communications, radio spectrum and postal services. Its authors are Mikhailo Kryczko, Alexander Fedienko, and other national deputies. It was traditionally written by a working group at the Digital Transformation Committee’s site, consisting of both representatives of the public and public authorities. Friends, the regulator is now operating as the National Commission for National Communications and Information Regulation. His activities were governed by the old Telecommunications Act. We've adopted a new Law on Electronic Communications, but it can only function fully after the adoption of the Regulatory Act. These two laws will form the basis for Ukraine’s successful digitization. I would like to remind you that the adoption of the Regulatory Act is our obligation under the Association Agreement signed by Ukraine. Since special and separate coordination between European communications regulators is envisaged to achieve the compatibility of telecommunications infrastructure and its rules on access to electronic communications markets. The bill contains rules on the transparency of the appointment of members of the regulatory body on open competition principles, the independence of the regulatory authority in its decision-making, the openness and transparency of the process of state regulation in the light of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the procedure for the establishment of the regulatory authority, the appointment of its members and their place in the system of authorities in Ukraine. The bill consists of three chapters, which set out the characteristics of the regulator’s activities, functions, and powers. Arrangements for the preparation of regulatory acts, the specificity of controlling the electronic communications markets of the radio spectrum, and the provision of postal services. Once again, I would like to remind you that without the adoption of this law, it will not be possible to fully implement the already adopted Law on Electronic Communications. This law will create better conditions for Ukraine’s entry into the Single European Digital Market. This in turn means new opportunities to access online markets and e-services in Ukraine, simplifying legal and administrative barriers, joining the only rules for the free cross-border distribution of online services and content of online payments, simplifying digital contracts, and much more. Colleagues, this law is a real step towards Ukraine's entry into the only digital space of the European Union. Experts estimate that Ukraine's integration with the only digital market in Europe will increase exports from Ukraine to the EU by more than $2 billion, US services by more than $300 million, and Ukraine's GDP growth is projected at up to 12 percent. It is on the Supreme Council today that we have the responsibility to fulfill our obligations under the Association Agreement. But this law is not only a fulfilment of Ukraine's obligations, it is also an additional impetus for the further digitisation of our country. At its meeting on September 22, this year, the Digital Transformation Committee approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include this bill in the agenda and adopt it on its first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. After his acceptance in our hall, I invite everyone to participate actively in the preparation for the second reading. When preparing for second reading, the working group will continue its work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we said there was a need to discuss this bill. So please sign up: two in, two in, two in, for discussion. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenk Alexander Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u64	Please pass the word to Stepi Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u65	Sergey Stepa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We always talk a lot about Ukraine going to the European Union, and this bill is a real step in Europe. In the Association Agreement, Ukraine committed itself to reforming and strengthening its independence by September 2021. We have to support this bill because it is absolutely necessary for the functioning of the electronic communications market. In this bill, very clearly stated requirements for a future member of the regulator: he should have a profile education, he should not have a conflict of interest. He must have Ukrainian citizenship, which is also clearly stated in this bill. This bill is to be promptly prepared by the committee for second reading, since it needs to be adopted in general by January 1, 2022. Because it is on this date that the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications, which we have recently adopted, comes into force. And I will remind you once again that this is Ukraine’s obligation under the Association Agreement with the European Union. So I'm asking very, very much to support this bill. It is absolutely necessary today and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u67	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kucherenk Aleksija Yuriovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u68	Mr. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u69	Vladimir Kabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u70	Kabachenko Volodymyr, Fatherland. Colleagues, another bill that violates the valid Constitution of the country, which we have to consider with you during the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To put it mildly, it seems rather strange that the initiative of creating an independent regulator to be accountable to the President of Ukraine, and the personnel decision to terminate the powers of its members will be taken by the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the first violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Moreover, 100 percent of the composition of an independent regulator will determine the winners as President’s Office. So what is the independence of an independent national regulator now? What about the initiative that the National Commission actually takes over some of the functions of the judicial system? For example, part of the resolution of non-judicial disputes between providers of electronic communications networks. And also in the case of infringements of industry legislation and the application of administrative fines and administrative and economic sanctions. There was a meeting yesterday of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, and it was this bill that we considered during our committee meeting. The committee was attended by 10 Ukrainian national deputies: 5 representatives of the majority, 5 representatives of other factions. So, unfortunately, the majority, despite the fact that the bill is objectively corrupt, they did not see corruption here, and all the other factions found it corrupt. So the fate of this bill is to send it to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. And today we're not going to be able to support this bill in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u71	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u72	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u73	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, this is really a law that requires us to commit ourselves to the European Union. But I don’t understand why we always want to stick a spoon in a honeycomb because it’s no longer a honeycomb. I got an offer to be co-author of this bill, but a rule that actually makes this National Commission subordinate to the President's Office, whether it's the vice president's office. I think it's a totally unacceptable thing. If she, the National Commission, is subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers, is accountable to the President of Ukraine, but the selection commission of the members of the National Commission is given to a non-existent body, which is neither in the Constitution nor in the laws of Ukraine. So how can we call this bill pro-European if the non-existent structure forms a commission for the selection of the members of the National Commission that we're talking about? So this is a fundamental moment, and because this is not in line with European standards, the European Solidarity faction will abstain from voting for this bill and very strongly recommends that the Digitalisation Committee rework if it is approved in the first reading to remove this norm, which dishonors Ukraine and which gives the Office of the President the power beyond its control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u75	I will now give the floor to Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, but I will ask the people's deputies. Because then there'll be two more speeches, and then we'll vote. Please take your seats. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u76	Please give the floor to Jurščin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u77	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u78	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” I'd like to highlight a few things. Well, first of all, it's a national sport. But how else should the majority explain that the President is prohibited from going beyond his authority by article 106 of the Constitution? The first initiative was when you made changes to the Constitution that would allow the President to create regulators. The Constitutional Court said that it was impossible to create. Now we have huge problems with the Constitutional Court. Then, in fact, when the National Anti-Corruption Bureau was created, the President again, the previous one, went beyond his authority, and they focused on it. Similarly, we have a decision of the Constitutional Court regarding the National Energy Commission. Now, in order to get around this, there's this kind of, you know, quasi-creation, it's like an expert councilor, it's kind of an advisory body, but it's going to have very important functions. And I want to stress, actually, this board of experts is not going to declare. I mean, what they got for forming a competitive commission, we're not gonna know. The next moment. It was said that the previous composition of a professional regulatory structure, well, does not actually manage its powers. So this warehouse is actually going to be in conflict of interest to choose a new warehouse. Because it's the expert council that's created especially from the representatives of this structure. Well, that's a lot of butter. But all of this goes to one thing: giving the President unacquainted powers. Guys, don't hide from Euro-Integration. If you really want to put European standards into practice, follow the Constitution. This bill cannot be voted on. It contains substantial corruption risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u79	The word is given to Bakuntzu Pavlu Andryovich. Then there's another speech, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u80	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the adoption of this bill will allow for the creation of another body in the field of information and communication systems regulation. And this National Commission, which will implement this state regulation, will be in contrast to or as the National Commission, which is already implementing state regulation in the area of communication and information. And there is a warning in the bill that this body is probably given too much negative powers, both in terms of regulation and control, as well as non-judicial solutions to any dispute between members of the information and communication system in Ukraine. So the "Trust" MP thinks that if you accept it in the first reading, you have to work very well and then take it out on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u81	The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriovich. And then we go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u82	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of this bill, but only on the first reading, only on the first reading. In addition to what our colleagues have said, I will not repeat myself, it is also for the President's authority that we would like to draw attention to one rule that this commission will be entitled to ensure that measures are taken to prevent the use of mobile communications equipment that is not confirmed in Ukraine. I can tell you that if this rule doesn't change, any mobile phone, for example, that's not officially confirmed, will be turned off. This is true of all equipment, including mobile phones. Therefore, for the second reading, read the conclusion of the GNEU, you have to clean up a lot of standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. And I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee, that the proposed clarifications be taken into account when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft National Commission Act, which regulates electronic communications, radio spectrum and postal services (project registration number 6055). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:18:55]] For 230 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next bill is our second reading, Bill 4554. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in the field of child nutrition in accordance with the requirements of European Union (EU) legislation. Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Mikola Tarasovich Solski. Will anyone insist? No one will insist. Thank you. Mikola Tarasovich, you just disarmed everyone. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in the field of child nutrition in accordance with EU legislation. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? This is registration number 4554. Please vote. [[16:20:23]] For 273 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we still have ratifications. Look, there's no talking about it. We had an agreement that, after the first two ratifications, they wanted to come forward and not discuss it. Is that accepted? [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you mean? I can't say no. Okay. Then let's vote. First ratification. Draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Privacy and Security of Information (Project Registration No. 0075). Let's vote for the reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:21:27]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to report? Then let's do it now. Irina Heratschenko is asking for European Solidarity. Who else wants to speak? Nobody else. Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we welcome the holding of the Euro-Integration Session in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, our faction will support all the ratification bills that bring Ukraine's legislation closer to EU norms and standards. But this is a great reason to talk now, is Ukraine really moving towards the European Union? The EU is a principle. The EU is a democracy. The EU is freedom of speech. The EU is a lack of censorship. And in recent days, society has simply scared off the number of resonant statements of bank pressure on the media, particularly on public speaking -- one of the fundamental foundations of an independent state and democracy. Similarly, several TV channels immediately claimed that it was already obvious that it was on Banking that all the biggest TV channels were written in the talk show. That's where the dungeons are being confirmed, which are being followed by this talk show. That is where the lists of agreeable and disagreeable are approved. It was for Medvedchuk that every day the bank came with lists of permitted and not allowed (thems: "important and relevant" and "ignoranced"). I was a journalist then, and I quit journalism because of censorship. And what I'm saying is that both the authorities and the opposition, we fought against censorship, and we won't let you go back to the time of Yanukovich. When you try to break the principles of key freedom of speech and democracy, when you press the media through the Bank through the Office of President Zelensky to force you to sell independent television channels. We demand that we hold hearings on freedom of speech. We are demanding a criminal offence under article 171 – obstruction of journalistic activity. We demand the immediate release of all those involved in the pressure and censorship of the Bank. We demand that we stop the pressure on an independent language, and we express solidarity with the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, Mezentsev Maria Sergiyevna has been asked, I cannot help but give. Then we vote. Two minutes, Mezentsev Maria Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u86	My colleagues, I understand you're all very tired. But it's very strange to hear from our colleagues, especially from the Euro-Integration Committee, how we don't do something, or what a bad day today is Euro-Integration. Let me remind you, in two years, you and I have moved up 8 percent of the implementation of the Association Agreement, now it's more than 50 percent. Today we have taken care of babies who have not even been born and about the safety of their diet, about energy efficiency, about seeds for agrarians. What are we talking about? Then the hall votes all and you prove it by your own vote. The mobile phones that we all have with you and the telecommunications and the mail that we use again are today's understandable European integration. We thank President Zelenski for being the first European integration meeting to take place in the Ukrainian Parliament since 2019. And we're going to continue to work so that the building area is built up, ecologically. We continue to vote with you on the ratification of leaching and scientific work in this area. And you and I, colleagues, the state of Ukraine over the course of two years have planted 15 million trees with you through our efforts, the public organization Greening Ukraine. And the President of Ukraine is also talking about sloping, and this is supported by an ecological direction, by all of our executive branches of power and by the political spectrum. So please, this is our job. We were voted for in order to improve our daily lives. So, dear colleagues, we're not going to argue any further, but that's understandable Euro-Integration. I call for a constitutional majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt the draft Law on Ratification – the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Privacy and Security of Information (Project Registration No. 0075). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:26:42]] For 274 Decision taken. The draft law was adopted as a whole. Next draft of Law 0089. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Finland on mutual protection of information with limited access. We agreed, too, one statement will be if anyone else wants, and then we vote all ratifications without discussion. Let's vote on this issue by a reduced procedure, we need to get 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[16:27:24]] For 238. Decision taken. I've been asked by European Solidarity, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support all ratifications. Just so, really, from the members of the Euro-Integration Committee, it's strange to hear that this is our job and this is the first single European integration meeting in two years. You admit it yourself, it's weird if that's the first. Hence, they may not need to be made through out - of - turn meetings. You guys want to work, you want to figure out what's going on right now? So why don't you want to discuss the essence of each ratification? Why do you close your eyes? Or do you have a question for what is being proposed today, for ratification? Although I don't have a specific bill for this. But I'll tell you, today we're going to vote in favour of a few ratifications of our next loan commitments, getting loans that are important to Ukraine's credit, from the European Investment Bank, and, yes, they're needed for different sectors. We're going to vote for giving us extra money to fight COVID-19. I just have a question, colleagues. The committee has long prepared this bill for consideration. Why was he not in the daytime order until now? That's the first question. Why do we drag away the kind of things that every Ukrainian needs for pear action? Colleagues, I have another question. We literally had a meeting with representatives of the European Investment Bank on the committee yesterday. $7.5 billion, more loyal to the euro, sorry, there's a loan portfolio in Ukraine today. Do you know how much was used? Two. The five billion euros that Ukraine can use, which we can include in our economy, we do not use. I have a question for the government. What is the government doing to improve its own sample of these funds that are needed for Ukrainians? But you don't want to discuss it, you just want to press the buttons. Press.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u89	The word is given by Vintonak Oleni Vasililowni. Then we go to the vote for this. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we don't go into the second one, guys, we made a deal. Vintonak Olena Vasilovna and then we vote in favour of this and everyone else without discussion as we agreed. Please, Olena Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u90	Good afternoon! Thank you for your word. Well, we support all ratifications, I urge the next ones to vote. Because the next ratification (there where 0108) is an opportunity to get help from the Republic of Estonia. But this will be the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-21-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As we agreed, we are now going to vote for this ratification and continue without discussion for everyone else. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Finland on mutual protection of information with limited access (project registration number 0089). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:31:26]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next. Dear colleagues, no discussion. I propose to the committee that the draft Law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the European Forest Institute (project registration number 0094) be adopted as a whole. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:32:01]] For 278 Decision taken. Next. I would like to propose a committee to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Technical and Financial Cooperation (project No. 0108). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:32:34]] For 279 Decision taken. Next. I would like to propose the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the implementation of paid activities by members of families of members of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions (registration number 0111). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:33:13]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next. I propose the adoption of the draft Law on Ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 3 to the Financial Agreement (the Ukraine Municipal Infrastructure Development Programme) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (project registration number 0113). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:33:51]] For 281 Decision taken. Yes. I further propose the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Contributions between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on Ukraine's participation in the Eastern European Energy Efficiency and Environment Partnership Fund (project registration No. 0120). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:34:28]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. And extreme, if I'm not mistaken, ratification today. I propose the adoption of the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement on the Development Project AT "Department: Logistics Network and the Rural Office" between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (project registration number 0123). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:35:12]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have exhausted the order of the day. I thank everyone so much for this wonderful European integration progress. And I declare the next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'll meet you tomorrow, according to the Rules, at 10 o'clock.
