ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. As I always remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left, using the sensor button. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:10]] There are 264 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy Sukhova Aleksandra Sergiyovich. Congratulations on your birthday! I want health, strength, success! [[Applause]] So let's get to the point. Dear colleagues, there have been two applications for a break with a replacement for the performance. The first is Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians! On this day of such national exaltation and patriotism, when everyone is so beautiful, in embroidery, I would least like to talk about unpleasant things. But I have to hear some new and shocking facts from this rostrum today about how vaccination is happening in Ukraine. On one of the advisory councils, the last of the advisory councils, Peter Poroshenko provided data from the official National Security and Defence Council portal, and who was actually being vaccinated with the highest level of protection, Pfizer. You know, there was one person in the category "80 years plus" and 10,000 people in the category "others." And then we asked, who are the "others" that Pfizer is slaughtering in Ukraine today? You know. Listen, please, you're all so busy here, maybe it'll be something new for you too. So we got a lot of evidence today that Pfizer in Ukraine is being slaughtered by officials. That mass vaccination of Pfizer is happening today in the ministries and departments, in the plant of the PNB, in the MNP. So the highest level of protection vaccine is not given to doctors who daily risk their own lives, not to teachers, not to groups of risk, it is given to authorities. It's as simple as possible, nobody's making any logistics for mass vaccination, it's just a machine, a car, and a car. You know, you know, when millions of Ukrainians have been sitting at home for over a year now -- they're pensioners, they're people with severe diseases, they're on cancer, they have complex forms of hypertension or diabetes (they're just afraid to leave the house), and Ukrainian officials are getting a second dose of Pfizer to get their vaccination passports and travel to the European Union without hindrance. Today, in this room, we are going to approve the new Minister of Health, Victor Lazka. So I want him to look like the Prime Minister. Mr. Schmigal, I understand that there's a lot of "thorns" going on while you're in the hall. The Prime Minister does not even react. But perhaps it is time for you to look into the eyes of Ukrainians and honestly tell them how the vaccination is happening in Ukraine. Vladimir Zelensky said at his last press conference that he and Schmidt were champions in the struggle against the coronavirus. Given these latest facts, I think you are champions of cynicism and lies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u3	Another statement was made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Kira Aleksandrovna Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the Voice Party of the year told the authorities and Ukrainian society that the protection and health of the nation was not a competent person. And then last night, the poor minister of Stepanov was finally released because of the harsh position of the Voice. But this is just the first step. Step number two. The country needs an adequate M.O.F. The government has no right to the fourth error. This minister will be severely controlled by Voice, our colleagues in Parliament and Ukrainian society. Step three. We need a government that understands what needs to be done. The government still has no strategy, no plan. I want to remind you that a year ago the Supreme Council, you and I, failed both of the government programs. How do ministers work now if they don't have a strategy, what exactly do they have to do if they're moving not with Parliament, but against its work? Therefore, changing names without a plan of action will not have a major impact on the effectiveness of the government’s work. We all understand that very well. The country needs an economic plan to come out of the crisis. The country needs a mass vaccination to ensure collective immunity. Ukraine needs a government that has a plan for a return to normal life. To guarantee the security of Ukraine and its citizens, we need to act consistently and decisively. We have to get the country back to normal life and development. This is a mandatory minimum to be provided by the authorities. Will the Voice support the new ministers? Making promises blindly, as they say now, of course we won't, because it's irresponsible. We need to understand whether the candidates are ready for the challenges that await them in office. So we require two things from each candidate to be a minister. The first is an expert analysis of the current situation and an audit of the Ministry's work. And the second is a plan of action in office as a minimum of six months. To the candidate for the post of Minister of Health, to Mr. Lášek, Voice has more detailed requirements. The first is to finally buy enough doses of vaccines. The second is actually to organize the infrastructure and mass vaccination as it should be. And the third is to provide hospitals and doctors with everything they need to work. There's enough money for that, and there's enough support for that. And I am confident that everyone in this room will support the work of the minister of health if they see that it is planned, correct and effective. I want to believe that most of the colleagues have responded responsibly to the change of ministers and we will have prepared candidates. And this week, Ukraine will receive an adequate minister of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u5	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 83, 85 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and which has the right to coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the application of the appointment of Mr. Viktor Kirilovich as Minister of Health of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. The next order of business is proposed. Presentation by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in 2 minutes. Dennis Anatolyevich, two minutes. A candidate for the post of Minister of Health, up to 10 minutes. Questions to a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies are up to 15 minutes. A report from the committee is two minutes. Presentations from MP factions and groups, as usual, three minutes from each faction and group. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. Let's move on to the question. Thank you for your support, Sergio Vitaliovich. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor to represent the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Ukrainians, good afternoon! According to article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly, I am submitting the appointment of Viktor Kirilovich as Minister of Health of Ukraine. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Victor Kirilovich Ljashko, Minister of Health, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u8	Good afternoon! Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, dear Ukrainian people! While in office as Ukraine’s Chief State Medic, I have always been open to you and told you the truth, whatever it may be. Yes, there have been times.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u9	Excuse me, Victor Kirilovich. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, don't you want to listen to the minister's candidate? Then we can leave the hall and conduct our negotiations on various issues outside it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u10	Thank you. At times, I had to make unpopular decisions, but I always put human life first. I know I have enough expertise and resilience to make management decisions. Because I've come to the Ministry of Health from the head of the department, the head of the department, the head of the department, and I'm standing here today as a candidate for the post of head of this department. I'm not going to make a big deal out of it if I'm going to say that number one is my priority for overcoming coronary disease. We'll do everything we can to get the Ukrainians to vaccinate, work and travel. But this pandemic has not yet ended, and unfortunately it is not the last. That's why the biological safety of our citizens will be a priority for the Ministry's work. By autumn, we will have a completely different system of health care to respond to outbreaks of infectious diseases and epidemics. The approach to responding to radiation and chemical threats will be fully reviewed. But we'll never be ready for epidemics, if we keep waiting for vaccines, so we need our own production of immunobiological drugs. This will be the first step in Ukraine’s pharmaceutical independence. The Ministry of Health will determine the list of critical drugs, propose a stable government order for investors to expand their capacity production right here in Ukraine, and give this product priority to our citizens. Another task is to eliminate the financial burden of Ukrainians who are treating chronic diseases and continue to buy medicines in pharmacies. The extension of "Available medicines" to new diseases will be implemented this year and we have a clear plan for that. All of us need to understand clearly what medical services and medicines we can get free of charge, and how much services are covered outside the health insurance program. I am convinced that this will give rise to the development of medical insurance in Ukraine. It's time to pay the hospitals extra for the result. COVID once again showed that the important thing is not the hospitalization, but the outcome of the treatment and the possibility of the treatment. Patients should be confident that in hospitalization they will receive professional medical care, and physicians should be confident that they will not be left alone with a patient without State support. A doctor should have a modern and effective treatment protocol and be able to implement it. By the end of this year, we plan to adopt close to new sectoral standards. New screening programs should detect chronic diseases that have hindered the timely detection of the COVID epidemic. Prevention is always more effective than treatment. I understand perfectly that my goals are ambitious, but they are available under command. Vaccination, responsibility and confidence are key features of the Ministry of Health for the coming period. By the end of 2021, anyone who wants to be vaccinated with COVID will be able to do so. Each bracelet from taxpayers will be used responsibly and with maximum benefit for the patient, the hospital, and the doctor. People will be sure that they will receive professional medical care, and doctors will ensure that the state will guarantee an increase in wages. To accomplish my goals, I will do everything I can. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u11	Thank you, Victor Kirilovich. Please sign up for the interview. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u12	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u13	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u14	I remember you forbidding people to walk in the parks and then admitting that it was useless and you specifically intimidated people. Aren't you ashamed of that? But it's rhetorical. But I have a question. Are you prepared to put an end to the shameful practice that doctors have to prove that they are sick in the workplace? Is it not just a mechanism that is used to avoid mass compensation for those who give their lives for our health? The second question. Do you think it's normal that the money from the Coronary Fund was buried in the asphalt, and as a result, people in the cemetery would take the hard roads that weren't made, and people actually didn't get the vaccine that could be purchased at these costs? And the last. I very much hope that you, as a potential new minister, will not continue your predecessor's practice of finding those responsible for the opposition, but instead will be inclined to at least some kind of dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. Once again, while serving as Ukraine’s Chief State Sanitary Doctor, he made decisions from the beginning of the epidemic that were adequate to the situation. For every decision that's been made and what's the result, today I'm officially telling you that it's been adequate to the situation and it's produced the positive results that Ukraine has today compared to other countries. As to whether I'm willing to change the legal framework so that doctors who have become sick with coronary disease get all the benefits and compensation provided for by valid legislation? Yes, he is ready and not only ready to do so but already has. Today, we have made it much easier to investigate occupational diseases among health - care workers who work in cadaveral hospitals, who work on the primary medical care chain, and who work in emergency medical teams. So when I turn to this rostrum, I want to see all the doctors. If there are problems with occupational illness, benefits and compensation, as well as if there are accidents and families, the Ministry of Health is open to such cases and will help everyone. It's about the cod fund. Once again, no epidemic can be overcome exclusively by the Ministry of Health; it is a complex work that must be done by all. So the question of economic support, the provision of hospitals to pay for the work of all those who are involved in the epidemic, should be resolved comprehensively, without politics, and balanced in making every decision. As a result, investments in the economy allowed us to continue to allocate funds to the hospital’s necessary equipment, to continue to supplement doctors who work in hospitals, and to increase the medical guarantees program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u16	Black Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u17	Please give the floor to Deputy Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u18	Germany? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u19	Thank you. A year ago, you told all the Ukrainians that everything was under control, that Ukraine had gone out on a plateau, that we already had a person's immunity, and that, like Italy, Spain would never be. What did we get now? We are the 17th in the world in terms of the number of deaths and the 8th in Europe. Yes, we have Italy, Spain, Britain, France, Germany. A year ago, who prevented you from asking about the construction of a new vaccine factory? You said a year ago that the testing was provided. And a few months ago, you said we were fine with vaccinations. You are the person who destroyed the Epidemiological Control Service in Ukraine, and you are now serving as minister. Does your conscience stop you from standing in this rostrum? Thank you for your attention. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Ukraine’s health system has begun to respond to the coronary disease pandemic since February 2020. During this period, huge things have been done in the health system. This applies to both hospitals and laboratories. We started to react with 12,000 beds designed to fight COVID, less than 50 percent of which were supplied with oxygen. Today, we have nearly 80,000 beds ready for coronary disease. Sixty-eight thousand of these beds are supplied with oxygen. The Department of Health laboratories, which were able to do 300 research in the first stages of the day, are now ready to do 100,000 research a day. So when you say we're not ready and we haven't done anything, it doesn't fit the reality. But can we retrain all hospitals exclusively under COVID? No, we can't. As a result, some quarantine restrictions have to be imposed as the health system approaches collapse. But we succeeded in the spring, thanks to timely quarantine and autumn and in the spring of 2021, in order to prevent a collapse. Was there a problem? There were problems. But these problems are in every country where there is a significant increase in coronary disease. So I urge all of you, let us unite and do good things, useful things just in medicine, which has been chronically underfunded in previous years. In order to continue to respond to any danger, we have a clear and consistent plan of action to protect the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u21	Ponomary's Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u23	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u24	Victor, do you think we're out of memory? Who supported the Suprun, who destroyed medicine? Aren't you? And I want to remind you how you fought the coronavirus a year ago. You forbid people to go to the parks. It was their only chance when they went on their own, voluntarily went to the Lokdown, and for two months they sat in the Lokdown with the sick 100-120-130 a day. And you told them that you did it for psychologically, as they say, to raise them. And you're going to tell me that you've done everything? A year ago, Ukraine was 187 at the death rate of COVID in the world. It's the 17th. There's a result of your work. People call you "Doctor of Death." This is a judgment from the Ukrainian people. And those who now vote for you will take responsibility for every death of COVID in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u25	I'll try to answer the questions. Ukraine is neither in ten leaders in Europe nor in the world at the level of COVID's death, it's all manipulation. The number of cases involving cross-border registration of aircraft or COVID cases is the number of cases, nothing more. Because it's calculated by the population that lives. Do I feel sorry for the fact that accidents are taking place? Yes, unfortunately, there should be no accidents. Sadly, though, before responding to the coronary disease, none of the health - care systems were ready to respond to the pandemic. So now that you're accusing someone of destroying something -- to destroy it, you have to build it. I am ready to be responsible for my actions as Ukraine’s health minister. I can't answer and do trailers about what I've done, I didn't build it without being the head of the profile department. Let's evaluate the work of ministers after they've worked for at least the first 100 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u26	Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u27	I'm asking you to give Dirdin a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u28	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u29	Dirdin, Maxim Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u30	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, you can't even hear who to say the word to. Please turn on Dirdin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u31	I have another question for you, Mr. Easy. If you're elected minister, what time do you plan to present a concept or bill on insurance medicine? Because I think that this Parliament in this office has to adopt this bill, which is important to Ukraine, which is insurance medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I have a solution that I want to offer you. You're pressing the "hold up" button today. At the next "hour of questions to the government" I present the concept of the development of the health system, where a single block is dedicated to the development of health insurance in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u33	Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u35	Bulah Lada Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. Many questions were raised by colleagues. Dear Victor Kirilovich, I, my colleagues on the committee have known you for many years. We have no doubt about your expertise, your superhuman commitment to the cause, because you have been in the health system your whole life. For me, first of all, you are a crisis manager who, in three ministers, has decided on the most difficult tasks of the health system. My question to you. Are you planning to improve your mental health program and particularly depressed disorders? Because today, for a third year, a working group has been trying to set up a system to help people with mental illness. That's the first question. And a second question from many colleagues. When will the quality of medical services be checked in Ukraine? Because today the National Health Service is trying to bring them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u37	Thank you for asking, Lady Valentine's Day. Psychiatric care and physiatric care are the biggest questions I've ever had in the Health Guarantees Program. I am constantly in some discussions with the National Health Service of Ukraine, and we constantly have solutions, and this situation will soon become quite different. As of this year, there has been a significant increase in funding for Phthiatry. I think that the budget declaration adopted this year is going to be provided for by very different treatments and funding for psychiatric care. Including we predict, and already this year, there will be some medical treatments on the "Available Drugs" program for treatment of one or the other pathological conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u38	Ustenko Aleksei Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u39	Ustenko Alexei Olegovich, "Slut of the People" faction. The future, I hope, Minister, you have enough challenges, and by autumn we have to vaccinate most of the population, because we understand that at least 50 percent of the population has to be vaccinated to form collective immunity. Please tell me, how do you plan to launch the vaccination program so that we don't fall into such a collapse in autumn and we don't have an even worse red zone? Second question. How do you plan to help out the country's Fapam and the small infirmary? For example, I have a problem in Montenegro that in the same village of Jablounjka in the Land, they haven't been able to build an ambulance for over three years because of the tender wars of some of the builders. Please tell me, how can we help all the rural medicine together? And the third question is, this is about the vaccination passport. Please tell me, how can we get it in a village in a small area? How's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. It's about vaccination. The health care system is now being prepared to carry out a large number of vaccinations per day. We showed this ability 50 percent after we arrived in Ukraine with a vaccine of 367,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine from COVAX, when we spent 70-75,000 doses of vaccines a day. And then I didn't have the opportunity to show high vaccination coverage because there was not enough vaccine in our country. Yesterday, on the Health Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I sounded an ambitious goal that I set for myself primarily as a goal that I should achieve in the first 100 days of my work. I'll do everything I can to get the Ukrainians to vaccinate, work and travel. As for rural FAPs, about investment in the health system. I am sure that we need to increase our health investments. One budget we can't stop and fund medical services and a material and technical base. We need to develop investment mechanisms. And I have a bill prepared on health concessions as an element of additional revenue to the budget, which should prevent problems in the budgeting and financing of health care. It's about the vaccination papers. Today, wherever a person does not live, vaccination data are uploaded into the electronic health system. Then you can generate a document. It's either a "Dia" plugin, or, if you don't use it, a document that allows you to prevent counterfeiting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u41	Thank you. Please sit down, Victor Kirilovich. The report invites the head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich. Is there no room? Mikhail Borisovich, you see, your committee, and you're not in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u42	I'm sorry, it was very hard to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u43	You make less noise, it'll be much better.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u44	Handsome, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Honourable Head, colleagues, yesterday, on May 19th, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on National Health, Medical Care and Medical Insurance at its meeting, addressed without delay the question of the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine as Minister of Health, Viktor Kirilovich. As a result of the discussion on the issue, the committee adopted 13 votes in favour and 1 in favour of the decision to support the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Viktor Kirilovich as Minister of Health of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that Viktor Kirilovich be appointed Minister of Health of Ukraine. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u45	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Very few today have listened to the minister's candidate, but in fact this position is one of the key to the government, for the country in its wake. And we've had a lot of trouble over the last year with the minister who was, but there's a lot of challenges to the new one. Yesterday, on the National Health Committee, a potential minister, Mr. Lazko, promised to introduce 10 million doses of vaccines to Ukrainians by the end of the summer. Imagine it's 100,000 doses a day, while today we're introducing an average of 12,000. It's a very ambitious goal, but it's not enough. In order to implement the President's plan of 70 percent of the adult population by the end of the year, three times as many vaccinations as Mr. Lazko said. Medical reform. There are so many populists who are critical of this reform. But the new minister will have to do it not for the sake of ratings, but for the people. Blood - services reform. As you recall, last September we voted in favour of the Law on Reforming Blood Services. It's still unrealized. I expect the new minister to finally start this reform at the level of the Ministry. The purchase of medicines, vaccines, and medical supplies that prevent thousands of patients from receiving lifesaving treatment because the former minister failed to buy drugs. These are just a few of the goals that Mr. Lazko will have to do if he is to be appointed by the Supreme Council. There are many questions before Mr. Lazko worked in the Ministry all this time and was a health doctor, which means that he also has some responsibility for the department's failures. At the same time, appointing a person who worked in a ministry who knows the system today is the right thing to do, because a new person wouldn't get away with it quickly. I very much want us to see at the end of the summer the fulfilled promises made to us today by Mr. Lazko. We won't vote for the minister as an opposition faction, because it's a matter of majority. However, we promise to support and help the new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! The Coronavirus pandemic is a challenging challenge for the state. And this challenge actually shows how many medical problems there are. Problems that have not only caused the Coronavirus pandemic, the problems that have long been, the problems that remain. The problems that need to be solved are complex daily routine work — the work of the very head of the Health Ministry. Because today we are saving the lives and health of our Ukrainians through the hard, titaniumic work of our medical heroes. Because of this low clearance and respect for all medical personnel and medical personnel in our country. But in order to protect the entire nation from the pandemic, vaccination is needed. As the hospital’s chief physician says, there is no alternative to vaccination. I mean, it takes all of them to be vaccinated, and unfortunately, there's not enough vaccines in our country. And this is actually the main task for the future management of the Ministry of Health. So in such a difficult, difficult period of the pandemic, we should not leave this profile ministry without leadership -- a leadership that should immediately address these problems and these issues. That's why I'm talking to the candidate. If you're elected minister today, your job is to provide the vaccine first. And preparation is a complex, important preparation for the likely next wave of pandemic, which we have to go through with minimal losses to the health of our Ukrainians and with minimal losses to the budget and the economy of our country in general. Thank you. Paul Bakunec, MP group "Trust", Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u49	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u50	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, indeed, you will now make a decision in return and we will definitely not vote in favour of this candidature. On the question of responsibility for the late minister's appointment, Mr. Lazko said, "Yes, I'm sorry, but I can't be held responsible for this because the ministers are responsible." He "fell" three ministers, perhaps in order to join this rostrum today and look forward to supporting the election of a minister of security. And he's really not lying to you, but he made it clear yesterday that by autumn, 5 million people are being vaccinated. With the million who are being vaccinated, that's going to be 15 percent, or 2.5 percent today, and it's going to be 15 percent in the fall. In Europe, they're all going to end the vaccine, and we're just going to start it, maybe, because I don't really believe in these five million. Today we were told that we should count the dead to the number of the population. So today, we died 2.5 times more in Ukraine than in India. But around India, the whole world was united, and Ukraine was left alone with the pandemic. And that help that we're getting, we're thanking you for it, it's meager and it's not a strategic direction. It was very beautiful to be told what to do to cope with the consequences of the pandemic. But I have a question: What are we without memory? Wasn't he a year ago, including in this rostrum, telling us that we're already on the plateau, that we're over everything? And then we were the last to die, and now, once again, I emphasize, the 17th in the world and the 8th in Europe, and these are very hard and scary numbers. It's not statistics, it's family, it's family, it's family. Dear colleagues, already under the Ministry of Health, stand with suitcases and bags. On the one hand, the sorority, on the other hand, those who are now assigned to receive funding from the President's Office. As journalists say, the $20,000 they give you for voting is the price of life. Everyone today who votes for Lacha will be held responsible for the death of our citizens in the seventh generation. General Vladimir Mikhailovich Antonec, my comrade Alexander Serio and another 48 thousand 897 of our citizens. A moment of silence, please, to honor their memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Victor, these deaths are on your conscience and anyone who votes for you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u51	The word is given to the national deputy of the Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Mikhail Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u53	Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u54	Dear Chairman, Honourable Prime Minister! First of all, I'm sorry, I didn't want to start with that, but I'd like to remind your colleague Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich that he's a little lost in time. With suitcases and money under the MOH, there was twice your minister from the Party of Regions. It's just that I wanted to remind you -- a little bit of a different year. Nestor Ivanovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, what I was going to say. Dear Victor Kirilovich, you know, we are making a decision today, but I would like to remind you that you are now 22 ministers who can become 22 ministers in Ukraine today. First of all, I would like to wish that you were at least the minister who will be remembered for many years, after you have left, only with applause and only with gratitude. I'd like you never to give an excuse for any of this. That's two. Third. I'd like to remind you that you're a candidate of the Coalition, the Monocolation of the Servant of the People. You have to do the President's program. I'm going to remind you a little bit about what the President's program on the health system is. First. Ukrainians should receive free, high - tech, and affordable medical care. The other one. Ukraine is due to introduce a state-wide compulsory health insurance by the 23rd year. Third. Ukraine has, the Ukrainians have to get quality drugs, not contraceptives, those that help, not fuflomecins, and these drugs are mostly to be produced in Ukrainian businesses. I would like to remind you that in Ukraine 146 pharmaceutical companies and your job is to make these companies flourish and that Europe is in line for medicines produced in Ukraine. Fifth. It's in both the President's program and the "Serve of the People" program. Ukrainian medical personnel are to receive a decent salary, not to go to pick up a sunflower or anything else in Poland or our neighbors. They are to receive a decent salary and the wages that Ukrainian family doctors receive today. And this was the first stage of medical reform. I would also like to remind you that medical reform is not just about NSOs, but medical reform is about quality medicine. And finally. In this room in 19th year, we all, colleagues, remember, fought to get medical supplies back to Ukraine. We created the Medical Purchasing Department, and then all the colleagues in the hall helped us. Victor Kirilovich, don't ruin this business. It's a savings of money, and it's a worthy drug.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u55	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. He asked Nestor Ivanovich Shufrich to use the right to reply. One minute. Please include Nestor Ivanovich. And I'm still asking Mikhail Borisovich to use synonymous lines or euphemisms. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u56	Misha, Mikhail! I'd like to see the camera, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking you to stop timing. Thank you. Michael, about Richter. I remember that when I was a deputy secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, I demanded her criminal responsibility, and you came to me and said, "Leave Paradise alone, it's ours." Now. And now I want to talk to everyone. Everyone who votes for the Light takes responsibility for both their children and grandchildren in the seventh generation for those who have already died and, unfortunately, for the inaction of this so-called Chief Sanlicator. Think what you're doing! God sees everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u57	The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u58	Dear Ukrainians! Today, it is very difficult for the Ukrainian Parliament, because it will be the fourth Minister of Health to face one of the greatest trials known to the world today, the people who live with us today in all countries, is a pandemic. This is a difficult decision for me personally. I'll explain why. Mr. Lazko will be the first minister of health for which I am going to vote without voting for Georgian Kwiatashvili or Uljana Suprun or Skalecki or for Yemen. One had no education. Yes, he did not have a doctor’s education, and he allowed himself to talk about medical reform in our country. Uljana Suprun could say anything, except how she's going to preserve rural medicine in our country. I don't want to talk about others either, yes, Stepan's including (forgotten). About those who went -- either nothing or just good. I don’t know what it’s good to say about former health ministers. But I can say that after examining your biography, I liked that the first place of work was the Kiev EU, the first entry in the labor book. So you're looking at these problems, and I really hope you'll be on the lookout for our health for the coming period. You've lied to the least of our state's top politicians this year, that's a great achievement. Well, think about it, they said you were inoculating 5 million or 10 million, and then they said it would be 5. I think that's the last thing you've lied about, and you're just going to keep saying it. And the third. You didn't pry on people's problems, like many of your colleagues who did everything they did in the morning told Ukrainians how many new people were sick and all. We and our MPs will vote for you. Remember, though, that things can change dramatically. In October of last year, the deputy of the Palace purchased three sets of six - level, six - cutting computer CTs for one of the lukewarm hospitals for 8.3 million dollars. And your predecessor bought the same for 12 million and bought 160 units. I expect a lot from you and our MP group that you will give a legal assessment and no longer allow the purchase of equipment at higher prices. That you will not seek, as your spiritual mentor, rural medicine. And that at least you won't let our Ukrainian doctors go abroad. I don't believe you'll be able to return the 60,000 doctors who left last year, but stop this exit. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u59	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich. Turn on the microphone, please. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u60	We're here on such an important subject, colleagues, and we're discussing and looking at what's happening in this room right now -- the photo session is collective. We are obviously more interested in this than in the health system. There was a turn and a prime minister who did not respond to anything. This is where the entire line of national deputies was drawn up before, notice, the representative of President Kiril Timoshenko's Office. The question is, what relationship does the Office of the President have with personnel? What republic do we have? Parliamentary Presidential, Parliamentary or Office Presidential? I think that's the answer to that question. Because "lookers" for "Big Building" come to control all flows through their ministers of infrastructure absolutely insolvent. But if we're talking about the Ministry of Health right now, about the failure of the vaccine, and I was saying, how many, what was the subject of so many lies? 10 million free tests, where are they? 10 million vaccines and an honest vaccine, where is it? I told you here today that today the Pfizer vaccine, which Ukraine has received as humanitarian aid from internationals, is being slaughtered by the authorities. Zero response and zero attention! We have such a form that we can ask the question. I see that the Prime Minister is focused on his phone, but I am very much asking for answers. Why is this happening, why is it promised that this vaccine will be administered by geriatric tenants, 80 plus people, and the authorities are pricking? I want to ask Victor Laczyk, the minister's candidate, and I want to hear the answer now. Please look into the eyes of the Ukrainians. You led a commission to investigate vaccination in Fefania. Who was stabbed? Time to report, time to answer questions. You've been doing this a long time. We did not hear these answers. And without them there can be no trust in power, because it is the power of liars and marauders. I want answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with articles 85 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Viktor Kirilovich as Ukraine’s Minister of Health. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:00:22]] For 262 Decision taken. I would like to ask the PSC, along with the Supreme Council's Office, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision taken. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" - 224, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Paternal Parenthood" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 18, non-fractional – 5. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Health Viktor Kirilovich Ljashko is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u62	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Lasko Viktor Kirilovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. And thank you all for your support. I'm not gonna let you down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Hello, Victor Kirilovich! I want success and strength and to implement everything you've talked about in your report today. The next issue of the agenda is also a personnel issue. In accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Mr. Alexander Mikolayovich as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. The procedure for considering this question is the same as that of the previous one. Is there no objection? Then you are invited to the floor. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to represent the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! According to article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, I am submitting an application for the appointment of Kubrakov Alexander Mikolaiovich as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u65	The candidate for the Ukrainian Minister of Infrastructure, Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u66	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Mr. Prime Minister! I'm happy to be in this room again, where in less than four months of my work with you, we've passed 12 laws that are already working for the benefit of our citizens and our state. Our work together continued with my transition to Ukrawtododor. Thank you very much for that. Because without the constant support of Parliament, the Prime Minister, the government, the President of Ukraine and the President's team at the Office of the President, it would be impossible to implement the ambitious plans of the Great Building. I'm going to take a quick look at the key areas and the tasks that I have to perform. "Big Building" and roads. In the first year of the Presidential program "Great Building", Ukraine has received a record number of updated roads. Until last year, no one could believe that there could be good new roads in Ukraine. And that achievement is hard to deny, because the new roads are going and they're all going to be going for many, many years. This is only from the results of 2020. In total, 2020 and 2021 years, we will repair almost 40 percent of our nation's main road network -- that's about 9,000 kilometers of roads of national importance. During this period there were no favorite areas, as before, there was a Winnitsk district, there was a Lviv region, there was a Donetsk district. It is very symbolic that last year the most renovated roads were in the Zakarpatsk and Lugansk regions. Why did this happen? Because these are the areas at all. They haven't had any repairs for the past decade. There are new roads all over the country and there's no political element anywhere, even in the areas that I've mentioned, all over this evenly. For example, our team has been able to prove that the Ukrainian State has been able to solve problems that have accumulated over the years. To avoid being loud, we can say that the Big Building project is not just the roads we saw, but also the jobs that were created. Last year, about 50,000 jobs were created in our project, and about 150,000 jobs were created in adjacent areas. 1.5 percent of GDP, this is NBA statistics, statistics from the Kyiv School of Economics, statistics from Ukraine Outlook are even higher -- about 2-2.5 percent of GDP was created solely by Big Construction. We defrosted and completed dozens of long - term buildings in various parts of Ukraine, destroying the unbuilt monuments of corruption and incompetence. I can list hundreds of such objects throughout the country. This and the bridge through the Hajibei Lyman, which began to be built in 2004, is also the city in Marshinci, which has been under construction since 2009, the bustin bridge, the bridges in Rostoki, since 2009. On Ukraine’s most famous long - term bridge, the Paris Bridge, the movement of the first Balkan bridge opened at the end of last year. This year, we're opening a passage through the van bridge. Gauze worked quickly and effectively under the single and clear transparent rules. My job is to put the system in order in other areas as well as in the road. In order to emphasize separately that I will not look for the guilty forerunners, since many problems in the field have been accumulated for decades. I saw this well in the position of head of the Ukrautodora. Because if the infrastructure hasn't been pre-invested for 20 to 30 years, it's hard enough to find the predecessors there. Our main task is to solve all these difficult problems, just like we did in the road sector, we do. Among the priorities in the new position, I would see the following directions. When it comes to rail transport, first of all, the financial stability of Ukrzalnica. We all realize that the enterprise is in a difficult situation right now, and there are two important elements. First of all, really, we understand that there are costs of an enterprise that need to reduce, optimize, try to make some purchase there transparent, understandable and competitive. Second, it's important, no less important, it's a profitable part of the enterprise. We all realize that there's always a balance, there's a business that's interested in lowering tariffs or keeping them at an existing level. On the other side. Because business minimizes its costs. On the other hand, we see that the Crucifixion is stopped in this way. The rate of wear of the basic infrastructure is 90 percent, so we can't but raise the tariffs for transport. That is why we will do so, not for passenger transport, but for freight transport. That is why it is necessary, for just when the Crucifixion takes place, God will not let it happen, that it will stop, that everyone will lose, both business and everyone. So we're going to do exactly that. Upgrading the enterprise's material and technology base is new trains, new tracks, new technologies. I realize it's hard to believe right now, because we're all imagining the Crucifixion that is now. But in principle, it was hard to imagine a year and a half ago that we were going to be building roads, as they are now being built, in this range. There's more on the rail line. On rail transport, he wanted to point out that, of course, the Railroad should recover the market share lost in recent years in the freight market. Because in the last year, as a result of the 20th year, the share of road transport is almost equal to that of rail transport. When it comes to the direction of the work of the Ukratrans Security, it is primarily the launch of automatic weight control. Thank you to my colleagues at the Infrastructure Development Committee, they were supported on the committee yesterday by the relevant bills. I hope that very soon they will be voted in the second reading room and finally we will have automatic weight control, and the violators of weight control will get "happy letters." The second is, of course, the provision of normal funding for Ukratrans security and state intelligence. I realize that without people, it can't work on its own, so it can't be. Maritime and river transport priorities are primarily the restoration of port infrastructure. Just like in the Ukrazilznica, the rate of wear-off of our main ports is 80-90 percent. The state cannot fail to pay attention to this problem. I realize that there was a period when 90 percent of the dividends of AMPU went into the budget and it was normal, the war started and so on. But we're already losing critical infrastructure, so of course it will be. Some of these funds should be aimed at upgrading port infrastructures. The second is the holding of concessional port competitions. This practice will continue. I understand that there is confidence in that. This is a transparent mechanism for involving investors. The third is, of course, the issue of issuing passports to our sailors. I understand that this problem needs to be resolved urgently. This market needs to be made civilized. There's a good example, as we used to have foreign passports in the country, the service wasn't exactly good on the part of the state, yes. But one year it all changed, and everyone now forgot the problem that we had. Like everyone else got foreign passports before. Now there's a passport service, you can go anywhere in the country, get the normal procedure, paying for all the congregations you need, officially in the banking department. As far as the aviation sector is concerned. First of all, the construction and development of existing airports must be created by a network of regional airports. The development of the internal aviation market, we'll do everything we can to do that, and I'll ask for your help, because we have an internal aviation market that is uncompetitive compared to international transport. And, of course, the creation of a national airliner. All these questions are complex and will require uncomplicated decisions, new laws, and the interaction of all branches of government. I hope I can still count on your support. And on my part, I assure you that my position will be as open to you as it is to all of you. Just as we've communicated with you and found compromises on any matter, on any bill, so we'll work and the position will be revealed as it used to be. Once again, I would like to thank everyone, Prime Minister and the entire team, for their trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u67	Thank you. Sign up for a question to the candidate. Nagorniak Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u68	Good afternoon!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u69	He's a schmuck. Wait. Skull, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u70	My dear colleagues, today, I think that Ukraine, led by Alexander Kubrakov, has proved that the state can solve the accumulation problems quickly over the years and carry out these ambitious goals that have been declared by the President's Grand Building program. As a result, we have 4,000 miles [4,000 km] of rehabilitated roads and more than 150 bridges of large and small bridges throughout Ukraine. Some things he did for the first time. The first approved public procurement methodology, which uses the best experience and practice of financial institutions working with infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u71	Please. Do you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u72	Thank you. The same practices will be applied in other sectors. I hope that the same pace will be found in Ukrzalznice and other areas of infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u73	National Deputy Ariev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u75	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u76	In view of the citizens of Ukraine, there is now a man standing on the rostrum, which makes the roads of "great theft" sprout in the spring and the bridges fall across Ukraine. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. I also have a rhetorical question about how a person who can't just write his own autobiography, where a "hole" in an autobiography from 2003 to 2019 is supposed to be a minister in the Ukrainian government. And the question is essentially. Taking into account your personal involvement in the derby of "great theft," tell me, are you planning to continue to increase the cost of a mile of roads, and what are you planning to do with a road cartel that derails the entire road sector? Finally. Will the conscience not be tormented by the fact that the money of the Coroner’s Fund is entangled in roads where people are sadly taken to the cemetery?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u77	I thank you for asking, it's like this, it's a performance or a question. But let me try some of these things rational, what I heard, to answer. First of all, the bridge is falling, indeed, the bridges are falling, but those that were built seem to be in 2017, Vice-Prime Minister Kistion opened, and that's why they're falling. I don't know. Why? That's probably how they built it. There and Prime Minister Groissman was, too, writing an appropriate post, and his deputy prime minister, Kistion, opened solemnly and the bridges fell. Well, that's what happens. Probably because they stole a little. Yes. The second is about the cost of construction. That's a very interesting comment, but there's statistics like this, in 2020, the 20th year cost of one kilometer compared to 2019, when your team was still in power, the cost fell by 19 percent. It's statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u78	The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u79	Please hand it over to Nina Petrovna Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u80	Eugene Nina Petrovna, please. You've got the microphone off, Nina Petrovna, you didn't insert the card, I guess. Nina Petrovna, it shows me that your microphone is off. All right, we're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we've just talked about the previous minister that none of the ministers should answer us as a politician, but as a minister of executive power. You just, Mr. Kubrakov, made a completely false statement of yours and an explanation of the question that my colleague was asking. So it seems to me that everyone is well aware that all Ukrainians cannot be the minister of a person who has failed a career that has no successful experience and successful acquisitions. Are you saying that the year leading the Ukrawtodor is a success? The entire nation knows exactly what kind of theft took place among the 35 billion roads. You may not be guilty of this, but you may refuse to do so in order to preserve at least your honor in order not to become engrossed in any further actions that you may be forced to do. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u82	Here we go. Well, I'm not really, again, I get the question, it's a performance, I can react so briefly. I'm not going to comment there, and you can look at the biography, and yesterday it was everywhere and so on. What would you like to highlight? Here, Nina Petrovna, I sometimes get MPs from you about road construction and they sometimes, well, it turns out that they're sometimes composed in the interests of one of the companies that works in the Kyiv, Žitomir and Chernigiv areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, the ruling faction. The Voice Party, I'm sorry, the Voice Political Party. Rustling.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u84	Please give Julia Klimenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u85	Ms. Julia Klimenko, National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u86	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Mr. Secretary-General, you said side by side about the big problem that is in Ukraine -- the problem of seamen's graduation, as well as the confirmation of seamen's documentation. It's hugely corrupt, I'd say, a clown headed by the Maritime Administration. An authority that was created and financed by budgetary means, by tax payers, and which, perhaps, accounts for about $200 million (I mean, bribery) per year. Please tell me, what steps are you taking to stop this simple abuse of over 150,000 workers, sailors in Ukraine who bring about $2 billion a year to Ukraine? What are the first steps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. First of all, as far as I know, is the proper order of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is now being charged in court. On my part, I understand that we will continue the ministry's practice, here we agree on this, we will support the previous team and try to get that command to work, and it solves some of the issues. But most importantly, what I'd like to say is that, of course, corruption and problems lie where there's market tightening. So when there are 2-3 companies that can provide these services, there are problems. On the other hand, what I'd like to say is that we're going to liberalize this market as much as possible. So there's not going to be 1-2 companies that are going to do that. It will be. Well, I've seen it happen in the last few years, in the last few years, before this problem became acute. There were dozens of companies working on this market, so I think we'll go back to this practice if we're so careful. But the ideal model for me, I once again said, is that there is a model that gives foreign passports to all Ukrainian citizens, there are modern passport centers. For me, this is the perfect painting. Yeah, I'd like the business process of providing these services to be exactly the same, with this interface, just as transparent as it is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I just want to point out to you that we don't want to name the name after our father's deputies in Parliament because they automatically get the right to a replica, which is now going to be given to Nina Petrovan Jujanin, because you called it. And in the future, I'm just asking you to decapitate. Please, Nina Petrovna, right of reply. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u89	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Now you've made sure that I have absolutely reliable information about the drains and schematics that exist in Kubrakova. And a lot of Ukrainian companies can't stand them, and they're actually turning to MPs. And so I'm asking you to support Ukrainian companies that can build roads and not give priority to Turkish companies and not talk about large infrastructure and that you've engaged a lot of jobs. It's not Ukrainian jobs, it's jobs and money, unfortunately, for foreign companies. So be kind, and no longer take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u90	The word is given to the national deputy Saucuk Oksani Vasilovni, who is not a factionist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u91	Oxana Savchuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ivano-Frankishte. I would like to address you with such an important question as Carpathian and Carpathian. I think that much more money needs to be spent on repairing the roads of this country, because we understand that this is not just the gate in Carpathian, Johno-Frankishte, but this is also the gate to the European Union. Because we have a lot of boundaries. And I'd like to ask you to think about how we're going to raise additional costs for road repairs, especially the roads of local importance that fit in with those roads of national importance that have already been repaired. Especially for the Carpathian region of Ivano-Franco, this is a very, very painful question right now. And the second is, of course, the question of building bridges that are essential for our region.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. A brief comment. First of all, the roads of national importance on Prikarpatha. The Ivano-Frankiv region, in principle, we have one of the largest areas that have roads, this will be one of the first areas in Ukraine where all roads of state importance will be repaired within the next two years. I think by the end of this year almost all roads will be repaired, next year all roads will be accurately repaired, roads of national importance. As for the roads of local importance. All right, gradually, once the roads of state importance in a particular area are repaired, we'll start taking the roads of local importance to the balance of Ukraine and repairing. The second is about bridges. Of course, there is a separate programme of bridges and, in principle, more bridges in exactly three areas are Lvivska, Zakarpatska, Ivano-Frankivska and possibly Chernivetska. I'd like to stress separately that there's a project called the Small Carpathian Circle, which also applies to these three Western areas, and so we are fully supporting it and we're starting to finance it this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u93	The word is given to the National Deputy Lušnjak Mikola Volodymirovich, the MP's "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u95	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u96	Larissa Bilozer, trust MP. Mr. Alexander, I'd like to say on behalf of all the majors of Winnitzkin who ride their wheels, walk their feet on those roads in the districts, communicate with people, and say thank you very much. You have shown effective management. We have for the first time in years of independence roads are made "heavy": R-33, R-08, T-02, 22, 32. You know, it's a great joy for people. And what I'm saying is that you've always been open to cooperation, there's been extensive communication with every national MP and trust group, and Vinnitzka's major MPs. So I want to say that there are still big challenges ahead. And I'm also asking you to pay attention to the Crucifixion and the conflict, the hybrid war between Crucifixion and the Pension Fund on the delivery of people's pensions to the house. Because 93 percent of the population has no banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. First of all, it's about roads. Just as we worked, we will continue to work in the same mode. In fact, the Vinnitsk region -- there we already have the opportunity to go to the roads of territorial importance. With regard to the situation with regard to the delivery of pensions. This is a new situation for me. I learned about this problem with the media yesterday. We'll be sure to work it out. I think it's just a lack of communication between two state institutions, two state bodies. I think we'll try to find a solution as soon as possible. It can't be that two state structures go into public conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u98	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Pusharenko Arsenija Mikhailovich, political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u99	Good day, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. Arsenius Pusharenko. Now we're hearing in this room, our individual colleagues are complaining about Mr. Kubrakov's biography. So let me tell you: Mr. Kubrakov's biography is 4,000 kilometers of high-quality state roads last year. And it's winter, all the roads haven't come down. We're all on these roads with you. This is a tape of Kubrakov's biography specifically. Now we see that representatives or lobbyists of the road mafia who have been trying to beat Kubrakov for the last year and a half are telling us something right now. They've gone, they've taken off in the summer, and now the methods that Kubrakov started in Ukrawtododor: transparent, open and efficient will be distributed to the entire Ministry of Infrastructure. He proved his effectiveness in the position of head of Ukraine. I'm sure he'll lead to his efficiency in the role of Minister of Infrastructure. We need to get things in order in both the ports and the railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u100	Thank you, Arsenius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u101	It's all right, isn't it? Answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Thank you, sit down, please. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Infrastructure, Yuri Grigorovich Kisiel, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u103	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee on Transport and Infrastructure at the meeting on May 19, 21st, discussed the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Kubrakov Alexander Mikolayovic as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. As a result of the review, members of the committee decided to support the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Mr. Kubrakov Aleksandra Mikolajovic as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the appointment of Mr. Kubrakov Aleksandra Mikolajovic as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. I'm going to point out that almost two years ago, Alexander Mikolaiovich was elected, as we all, the national deputy, agreed to take part in a complex direction such as road reform and the leadership of the Ukrawtodor. Everyone well remembers the neglected condition of road traffic in virtually every region of our country. Today, we see tangible changes in this area. The infrastructure is being upgraded at a significant pace, primarily through the implementation of the Big Construction Programme of the President of Ukraine. Professionalism, decision effectiveness, and command work are the components of such positive developments. I hope for the same efficiency in the new office and in fruitful cooperation with the committee and parliamentarians. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, at last with all the responsibility, I can say that the country is moving away from permanent pit repairs. And we're starting to build quality roads that will serve not one year, but our country, our Ukrainians, for many years. To date, the quality of road repairs is under the control of the scientific sections, and all project documentation is subject to mandatory expertise. As a result, more than 11 billion dollars were saved last year. To this day we begin the conclusion of the so - called long - term era. And already the first known longwall is a bridge through the Hajibei Lyman on the Clothing. Before opening a bridge, a crematory bridge, and hundreds more bridges and new areas throughout our country. Today, however, we do not simply want to praise the work of Ukrawtodor and his chief of staff, Alexander Kubrakov. From the faction we have great demands and high expectations for the work of the new head of the Ministry of Infrastructure. First of all, we want the railway network to be modernised at last so that the users of the services of the Ukrzalnica will get the right quality. We hope that the volume control will work all over Ukraine. We hope that the "one window" of administrative services will be introduced. We hope that the price reform will finally take place and that the market will have normal, healthy, honest, transparent rules. For my part, as the head of the Interfractional Union for the Great Building, together with my colleagues, I guarantee that all the important bills that need to be passed in Parliament's walls for the field will necessarily be considered and approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u106	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u107	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u108	Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues, some of the complimentary norms, but I would like to turn to the specific parameters and draw your attention to what we need to do, what we have not heard. And I'd like to call the honorary, so far, the candidate for office, the minister of infrastructure, attention. Of course, it's not just a matter of the road, it's mostly a car, it's a railway and what hasn't been said today is how we're going to deal with the negative situation that we have in the transport sector. This is more than 50 percent passenger traffic, almost 10 percent of freight traffic. From this point of view, it would also be very important to get the predictive parameters of how to get the sector out of the crisis. This time. Or, of course, get a program to stimulate transport. It would also be very important to hear, and we have homework in the implementation of the Association Agreement. The minister's candidate doesn't hear, but he may not know that there are regulations 1071 and 1370 is what it is about road and rail transport. Or the issue of passengers' passengers' benefits. The issue of passenger passenger passenger passenger passenger service benefits is Rule 1370. It is very important to implement it in the legislative field so that Ukrainian citizens do not get the problems that exist today in this area, on the one hand. On the other hand, carriers received their legal compensation. An extremely important issue, number one, is overcoming corruption in the area of trade in permits. What haven't we heard today? We didn't hear what the volume of permits we have for international freight transports, for example, to Hungary, to Poland. We know that the quota is decreasing. Or super-deficit licenses going to Italy or transit permits for international trucking. We didn't see those numbers, we didn't get them. So I would like to point out that, after all, the new minister wouldn't let go of what Ukratrans was doing in previous years when New Mail sold these permits to carriers for a thousand dollars. This is another important moment. Keep going. I also want to point out that today we have neither the issue of transit nor the restoration of the country's transit potential, which we had in full measure. And that's the question of railways and pipelines and our pipelines. The last one to be completed. I also want to pay attention: A cruiser is a matter of supervisory advice. It can't be that in the area of debt there are wages, low wages, low wages, and there's a cap or an overlay in Ukrzalznice, where the board members get 588,000 dollars each month. We will certainly not support this position because it is political and from the party of power. But we ask you to settle these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u110	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u112	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u113	Dear friends, I'm not sure Zelensky's team has read Ilf and Petrov, but the fact that they are followers of Ostap Bender is obvious. And now we're hearing a series of fairy tales here, when space ships orbit the 95th quarter and prepare for the New Year's Eve line. For two years, we have heard of new airports in all the district centers, all the ports, millions of miles of roads. But the truth sounds a little different. So, statistics, she's unrelenting to this "burial" team of Ukraine. The year 2000 — 120 billion dollars — was spent in the upper layer alone, laying 3,000 miles [357 km] of roads. What is the top layer? These are roads that still need to be invested in order to enable them to operate. In 2016 - 119, 115 billion dollars went to build 9,000 miles [9,000 250 km] of roads to the full. 70 percent of this so-called "Great Building" is actually an ongoing repair. And 70 percent of this current repair goes not so much to repair, but to the plates that are already at each roadside pit, where it is written that all of this happens under the leadership of the great feeding man Vladimir Zelensky. Today in Vladimir Zelensky's first year and last press conference. So we want to go to the press: don't leave it in the hot tub. Please ask Greene a question, and who in the country is responsible for the construction of roads under the Constitution: the great Ukrainetodor or President Zelenski? And if Zelensky, how do we hear it in all the reports, what's the point of this Kravtodor? Above all, who will be responsible for these corrupt schemes: Kubrakov, Crilly, or Zelenski? It's about Crickley. Friends, why did you let such a fine minister go? There was a round of applause in the hall, such as these. We're worried that you're going to start calling the streets the name of Crickley, so you thanked him for his work. But at the same time, he was thrown out like a pot, and his name had already been forgotten. And now you're changing one "stitch" to "milk" to "cubracow." Why does this change take place? But it's only because the President's Office is now together with the RNB under this whole show and all that, it's just a flow transfer, it's forming new new oligarchs, as it was in Yanukovich's day, when comrade Kurchenko came out of nowhere. Now we're going to have new oligarchs and they're born in this room. When the head of the budget committee instead of taking care of the unprotected population, he joins a man who today has 90 percent of all tenders in Ukraine and earns huge discounts. A special talk is, indeed, the Crucifixion. There's 103 billion damage there, and the board of directors is getting it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u114	Lucenjak Mikola. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The Trust MP will support Alexander Kubrakov's candidacy as Minister of Infrastructure. During his tenure as head of the Ukrautodore, he proved himself to be an effective manager as an effective manager. Our group consists solely of majorists, we have often addressed various problems that are primarily related to the reconstruction, repair, and construction of roads, and we have often found ways out of difficult situations. Of course, there are many problems, but much has been done. The work of the minister of infrastructure is much more and more responsibilities and responsibilities. Because it's not just roads, it's transportation, passenger transport, freight, it's port work, it's rail work, where we really have a lot of problems. We have a lot of traffic problems. That's why we would like you to be an effective manager of infrastructure if you choose, and I hope you will be, to be an effective manager already in the role of the Minister of Infrastructure, to engage the best experience of European countries, international companies to deal with the situation, right at the Ministry of Infrastructure. But I wanted to address you with a huge problem, and I think I'm going to be supported by every deputy major in this room. We have a huge problem with the local roads. Because if public roads are somehow less repaired and you can see that, really, we have a disaster with the locals. Let me give you an example of the Poltava region. 8,000 kilometers of roads that are on balance in the district government -- funding just about 1 billion a year -- can actually be done at a maximum of 100-120 kilometers. So we're losing our way and we're only losing our direction instead of our roads. So you have to work very effectively here, maybe there should be some kind of government program. We are ready to join at the level of law-makers and we really need to change the formula that exists today, because these funds are clearly not enough for local roads. We now have a thousand 470 communities. No reform will work if we do not get along with the local roads: neither in education nor in medicine, nor in medicine, nor in medicine, nor in a hospital, nor in a school bus will reach the building if we do not get along with the local roads. And this problem, I'm sure, is in every area, so it's definitely a matter of order and getting out of this situation. The Trust MP Group supports your candidacy and we look forward to working as effectively as you pointed out at the post of head of Ukrawtodor. Therefore, we are grateful for our cooperation and look forward to productive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u116	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u117	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! Of course, today’s important day of appointment of new ministers and ministers of infrastructure is one of the most crucial ministers in the government. That's what everyone understands, the whole country. It's not always said that energy is the nervous system of the state, and infrastructure is the blood system of the state. And how they work depends on how the state breathes and how slowly it develops. We want to point out that Alexander Mikolaiovich and I had a pretty good relationship when he was driving the RV. We've seen the performance of the work. Many positive changes have taken place in the construction of roads and in my hometown of Hmělničina and Volina, as well as in other areas of Ukraine. And our fellow Marjorie MPs, who work actively in the districts, say that man knows how to listen. I confirm that we can come, discuss, look at all the projects. He was tolerant, he was objective, where it was important, where he did not, and he was fairly confident about the issues that we were raising. But I'm going to Alexander Mikolaiovich to let him know that he's today becoming the minister of infrastructure, not just the Autodor, so the scale of the problems is much more important. He's now in charge of making arrangements at the Crucifixion, where there's a lot and lots of questions from the comfort of the passengers to the essentially semi-bankruptcy state of the company. Where we need to develop production, where we need to make decisions about hundreds and hundreds of enterprises that work today in the Cruise System, and they're sitting half without orders, half without pay, half of them are in a state of inactivity. Where the industrial production of our modern Ukrainian locomotives needs to be improved, there should be order in the train park. And these questions are going to be one of the most important today, because Ukraslska affects the entire economy of Ukraine, gives orders to hundreds of businesses and so on. The same processes are taking place in the Maritime Administration, where order is required, the aviation sector. And you can continue this list, because today, in fact, the Ministry of Infrastructure is also a budgetary structure and a nation-wide structure. So, Alexander Mikolaiovich, we support your assignment. Our "For the Future Party" MPs give you green light and give you the opportunity to take this position. We're ready to help, but listen to us, we're ready to give you help and in terms of professional personnel that actually worked in the transport sector for 20 to 30 years, which everyone knows their own direction, where everyone has authority. And this staff team can help you get on your feet and lift this ministry, and give real results to Ukraine and to the people of Ukraine. That is why we support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u118	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u120	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u121	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians and a distinguished candidate for the post of Minister of Infrastructure! What I'm saying is that we have years, decades, parliaments are changing, ministers are changing, and infrastructure and transport schemes remain -- it's such a great stability. We've had more than one generation grown up at the Crucifixion, I mean, bribes, they're already family businesses, they're passed on from one to the other. We have the same maritime administration now as it has become a source of new corruption and "schematosis" for new families. We have a lot of other things on the roads and on the safety, and on the UK security, and a lot of other infrastructure elements, we can say that our citizens face every day. Because our citizens, unlike you, are driving with us in the holed power plants that are burning, encountering Ukratrans security inspectors who demand bribes from them, can't co-operate in the Ukrasalznice because they can't win tenders, they can't get transportation licenses, routes and so on. So I want to wish Mr. Minister that we would see him next time, for example, in a month, more loyally, to the minister's candidate in order to see him in a month with a concrete plan of action at the points that will be with all the areas and directions of infrastructure and transport. That's why we're assigning with you not a minister of roads, we're assigning with you a minister of infrastructure and transport, which is most of our economy and sector. And from the way these industries are going to work, there's going to be revenue in the pockets of our Ukrainians and they're going to pay for quality services. They won't stand in line and they won't be bullied to renew the $2,000 or $10,000 documents. They will not pay Ukratrans security bribes to transport their crops and much more. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to see the minister again and again every two years, and we've seen him once a month or twice a month with a specific plan of action and with concrete implementation of this plan of action. So that we can stop producing oligarchy and family businesses on the state budget, on state-owned enterprises that are unfortunately flourishing now. Because 12 billion damage to Ukrazalzna did not take place anywhere, it's a theft from small to large, everyone's in favor of this company. So, honourable colleagues, I urge you, we will certainly not vote and support the personnel decision of a majority, but we want to see the minister in a month, two with a concrete plan of action and with concrete initial results, and then, hopefully, over the course of the year -- and with good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u122	Let's go to the vote. Please. In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of Mr. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:52:58]] For 284 Decision taken. Hello. I'd like to ask the Security Committee of the Supreme Council to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Let's see the factions. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexander Mikolayovich Kubrakov, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u123	I, Kubrakov Alexander Mikolaiovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. My colleagues, once again, I would like to thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u124	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Congratulations. I want strength, success and victory. Dear colleagues, five minutes to recess. I don't think it's worth asking the next question, including personnel. I'm waiting for everyone at 12:30 in the Plenary Hall. A break is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, before we move on to the next issue of the agenda, I would like to make an announcement and give an order to the committee. You all know exactly how energy security events are unfolding today, not only in Ukraine, but in Europe. Now I'm talking about the North Stream 2 and its construction. Today, this question is also in order of the day’s Supreme Council of Ukraine, as always. A draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the pay of representatives and the Senate of the United States Congress is now being prepared to sign, 117 calls to intensify efforts to strengthen Ukraine and Europe's energy security through the general implementation of the sanctions for the construction of the North Stream 2 pipeline. In this regard, I am addressing the PSC today at 3 p.m. to hold a meeting and prepare the above-mentioned decision for consideration so that tomorrow after the "hour of questions to the Government" we can consider it in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies please join us. I think soon the number in the SEDO will be sent to everyone. Thank you, Your Honor. And let's move on to our work directly. In accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which includes the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Ljubchenko Alexija Mikolayovich, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. The way the matter is handled remains the same. First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, is invited to represent the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, national deputies, honourable Ukrainians! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution, the Constitution of Ukraine, proposed by the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Servant of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution, has the right of the coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, to submit the application for the appointment of Petchenko Alexija Mikolaiovich as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u127	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. The candidate for the post of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine Lyubchenko Olexij Mikolaiovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u128	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Ukrainian People! It's a beautiful day for me today. I've had years of work behind my back in the real economy, in the authorities of the state. I know how the economy and the system of government work and, above all, I know the history of all changes. A personal feeling that has illustrated the country's governance in recent years: there is no balance, no socio-economic coordination, no economic growth point, and finally, the drivers have lost the initiative. The sense of what they did was the same, and everyone was waiting for other results, and it's important to realize that. I will not minimize the fact that there are positive points of shift, there are individual important initiatives, reforms and projects. It's not that difficult, although it's very responsible, to set strategic goals, such as the development of competition, small, medium-sized business, technological breakthroughs, economic independence, after all. But more important is a productive system of organizing them. And here's the main thing: the ministry should synchronize the work of the state authorities, the ministry should provide strategic management of the country's development. The search for growth incentives is the main thing. I'm convinced that it's time to get more innovative and modernize technology precisely through the localization of production. Restoration of credit in the manufacturing sector is a priority, not a set of state-owned securities and the same financing of government debt. Let us not forget tax and customs incentives for regulating economic activity. I know exactly how they work and what they work for. State defense order for the 21st year. They should be talking about him, not in the spring of 21, but in the fall of the 20th year, but rather in the three years ahead. A smartly balanced regulatory policy that stimulates big business to innovation. I reiterate, in fact, that big business is responsible for innovation and the inclusion of new technologies in the country. All the objective issues of small business are of vital importance. A particularly simplified tax system should be organized and protected by an entrepreneurial initiative. Establishing constructive cooperation between structures that determine levels of economic growth, and primarily the National Bank of Ukraine and the newly created Bureau of Economic Security. Identifying influential infrastructure projects, such as logistics, connectivity. And here it's important to make effective use of international technical assistance funds for projects, actually in the real economy. Extensive cooperation with international partners, including the IMF, in the interests of Ukraine. Revitalization of corporate reform. We're planning to give a new impetus to the Export Credit Agency. Improving the system of international trade cooperation, prioritizing the geoeconomic activities of Ukraine. Restoring the efficient work of trade and economic missions. One of the main ones is education, qualification, retraining. Special emphasis is placed on basic territorial units, which is also overwhelming in the context of territorial reform carried out, administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine. And finally, the balance of production and consumption on a competitive private basis. Today, using the database of only the U.S. State Tax Service, you can form intersectoral balances in online regimes and keep your hand on the pulse to shape and make quality government decisions. The law enforcement function has to come out of the economy. The law enforcement function should be focused on the use of budgetary resources rather than on production. And the final CD I see is a reduction in the state's share of gross domestic product. Information policy. It is important to have data on economic activity, without which it is impossible to count on a social agreement, on its quality. Djitalization mechanisms in the economy sector should become the basis for changing management approaches and controlling internal processes. We already have good practices on this issue. The government must have a digitally integrated economic map of the state, to which resources, production, industry and property can be fully represented. And on this information base, to form and make decisions, including by assessing the socio-economic development of the regions, their territorial communities and Ukraine as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand what this position is today: the worsening of the global financial crisis, the pandemic, the internal problems that have accumulated for more than a decade. But anything can be done, especially for yours, the distinguished national deputies, the support. Why do I believe in results? Because I have a responsibility to my family and to the people of Ukraine as a whole. I'd like to conclude by saying hello to everyone for the holiday. For folk tradition, for embroidery! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u129	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Lukashev Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u131	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u132	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. An honourable candidate for economic minister would like to hear from you the main priorities for overcoming the raw economy and the deep crisis we have from the 14th to the 21st year. We actually have deindustrialization, downsizing in key sectors, high-tech industries. This is accompanied by a decline in the share of innovation in industrial production and so on. So what are the concrete steps? We talked about it with you on the committee. What's going to be the volume of gross domestic product, the share of innovation in industrial production, the share of machine-building, the decline in agriculture in GDP, and the increase in industry. That's the first one. And the second is about external trade. And they're also interested in the quantity of exports that we're going to have in summary, for example, in the 23rd year to understand how effective those tools that you're going to use in external trade are going to be. These are two important questions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u133	Thank you for asking. I'll start at the end. For example, if we're talking about stimulating exports, at least it's necessary to stimulate exports, where there's processed products and where there's added cost. During the past 8 years, products with high value added have declined from 50 percent to 30 percent in the past year. In fact, there is one point that needs attention and support in order to develop, not the raw material sector of Ukraine, but the transformation. In what way? There is no one way, a universal way. And first of all, it's about the development of the internal market, which is designed to form a platable internal demand, and basically because of the localization of production. It may be necessary to simplify the system or to reduce it at all, or to abolish the minimum wage tax system altogether. There are many drivers that can lead to the result. But the main thing is to understand clearly what three perspectives are today: one is short-term, the other is medium and long-term. So in the short run, we need to overcome the pandemic and protect people. The second part is already the formation, the preservation of households, so that people can have income and have the ability to buy Ukrainian goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Alexia, please tell me if you have accepted as the head of the control body a part of a bill approved by the government last week that increases almost all tax rates and increases the pressure on business by transferring the administration system into manual mode. Are you ready now as the appointed Vice-Prime Minister, who is responsible for the economy and including (you stressed in your statement) for supporting business in Ukraine, stopping the passing of such a law to the Supreme Council, reviewing it, and making all the adjustments with your understanding of how the country's economy should develop? Please give a clear answer, yes or no? All Ukraine awaits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u136	The position I'm in right now is the Head of the State Tax Service. The State Tax Service actually has every opportunity to calculate and what it does in interacting with the government and interacting with the Parliament's Profile Committee, that is, we can do the math. Politics is none of my business. Regarding warnings. I'm a personal supporter of that, and I'm going to prove it right now just in numbers. If we're talking about small, medium and large businesses, the clearly defined criteria for Ukrainian legislation are the attitude to that business, then in the past year, small businesses have the lowest rates of paying taxes, i.e. there is no pressure on them such as medium and large. Regarding the bill's rules, which increase taxes or how they are accounted for by big business, I fully support them. Everything about small business, I can't remember that there might be land farming there. Well, maybe we'll take a look at it. But here, now that I remember, I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u137	The word is given to national deputy Mageri Sergey Vasilovich, who is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u138	Please give Victoria the Mushroom.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u139	Please, Victoria Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Alexy Mikhailovich, you know, big business today is creating jobs for small and medium-sized people. If taxes increase for the big business, the budget revenue will be less than you expect. That's the first one. Secondly, how do you feel about creating free economic zones in Donbas? In order to create this economic momentum, because we don't see another investor in the front zone right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u141	Thank you for asking. It is also complex and important, but the answer is simple. I support all forms of integration that are possible. The forms of interaction may be different, including technology parks, the free economic zone, or as part of a free economic zone — a technology park, industrial parks. It's okay. It's okay. But it needs to be balanced and not like an offshore in the great economy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u142	Thank you. The word is given to Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the "Serviary of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u143	Good afternoon! Thank you. Please pass the word to Natalus Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u144	Dmitri Nataluha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u145	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. I have a question for you. Ukraine is now in a state where all growth and recovery are actually due to a temporary increase in commodity prices. And in a few years, in principle, a new period of decline will force the economy to "go," that is, a new cycle. We have to figure out how we're going to reconcile this crisis and this is the sitting. Reconciliation can occur through the creation of great natural capacities or the transition to the production of finished goods, or by the increase in productivity. Please tell me, do you have any understanding of how to secure this arrangement? How do we make use of this situation at the expense of the high price of the raw material that is now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u146	Thank you for asking. The view is simple -- we have to start with what we have to count. We don't have any calculations today, no models. We have no idea of the cycle and where we're going today. At least I'm a proponent, taking the opportunity to say that the position is already political, maybe, so I'm just following conservative economics, neoliberalism -- that's what we're saying. But today the whole world, all the trends are talking about the state being an active player in the market. Today, trends all around the world are talking about taxes, taxes. I'm definitely against increasing the rates on the basis of budgeting taxes -- the VAT, the value added tax and the income tax. It's kind of a simple situation that we have 30 million Ukrainians in active age with data from the State Tax Service, we see clearly that we only have 10 employees, 10 pensioners, 10 are abroad and in shadow, about 50 by 50. And that's a huge potential, because when we fix only 40 percent of the fiscal check in the database, 60 percent is where we go. But first, this has to be bought in Ukrainian, you have to stimulate consumer demand. And the main thing I would focus on is stimulating consumer demand. So people have to get more money and spend it on Ukrainian, so they have to cross the border so there's no smuggling and everything's fixed and it's under state control.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u147	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u148	Please give Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u149	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u150	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Mr. Alexia, I have two questions for you. First of all, the Minister of Economics is a person who has to be a business lawyer and create jobs. During the past year, nearly a million Ukrainians lost their jobs in Ukraine. What is your vision, your strategy for creating new jobs, for small and medium-sized business development, particularly the existence and development of a simplified tax system? And the second question. Last year, at the time of the chronological crisis, we, as a parliament, gave local self-government authorities the opportunity to exempt small businesses from the single tax. In turn, they did so, but taxfully, sadly, they counted fines for months that entrepreneurs were not supposed to pay. I've sent a whole series of references to you as a tax manager. And in these answers, it's just that you need time and the following answers come back again, that you need extra time or.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u151	I stand firm for supporting small and medium-sized businesses, especially small businesses. Because small business is the driver of economic development. The question is, let's be clear about what's a small business and what's not a small business. For me, small business is up to one million. This is a completely understandable story that can be left without a fiscal check, without a cashier. Let them work, develop, and earn a decent income to support themselves, their family. If a shadow business hides behind a simplified tax system, you have to get it out of there. With regard to the only social contribution, more importantly, the State Tax Service has been directly involved in the work, the development of an antiquities-supporting business law, the bill, and acts solely on the grounds, within and in the manner defined by the laws. And there are actually fines, but it's all going to be corrected in a legal way. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u153	Dear Alexia Mikolaiovich, today everyone has the question: What will be the VAT policy after you leave the post of acting head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine? That's the first question. Will you keep this matter under control? And the second question. You have rightly observed that the number of taxpayers of personal taxes is too low. But that doesn't mean that people don't work. How do you think that people should be promoted to claim taxes by taxpayers, and thus voluntarily today have contributed to an increase in Ukraine’s government budget? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u154	Thank you for asking. How can people be interested in going to work? But simplify all state procedures. Learning, learning, and learning. Regarding taxes on added value and control. Indeed, the question is right because, without an increase or even a decrease in the rate of some individual species to 14 percent in four months of the year, and the same trend is observed in May, the value added tax has increased by 53 percent as part of the added value of the country. No change in rate and method of calculation. Tax policy, as I have already stressed in the speech, customs policy, is the regulatory economy, it is the main regulator for today, unfortunately, it is the main regulator of the economy. What is my sole value added tax? This is a marker or indicator of how the shadow economy works. Whether the state has created a level playing field for business development. Because if someone's bet is less than 20 percent, the state hasn't done anything. So value added tax is the country's main tax, which allows us to see absolutely everything that's going on in the state of Ukraine. So control over the value added tax will remain under my constant control, including control.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Oh, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u156	No, dear fellows. Zero-zero is all, time's up. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sit down, Alexei Mikolayovich. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished colleagues, thank you very much. You know, we're now faced with a rather interesting decision -- it's a decision to actually assign a person to the country's principal economic office, a person who now holds the principal tax office in the country. And it's as if some people see the problem. My colleagues, I spoke with Alexi Mikolayovich on the committee yesterday, and I would like to say that I see it as not a problem, I see it as an opportunity. The possibility of bringing the economic bloc back to its feet in this country and making it possible for the Ministry of Economics in Ukraine to finally become a customer of tax and fiscal policy. Because it's the Ministry of Economics that has the function of long-term economic planning. And it is the Ministry of Economics that is responsible for economic growth in the state, and it has to determine which tax system is most optimal for Ukraine to grow and economic development to grow, and whether long-awaited tax innovations such as capital tax will contribute to such growth. The Minister of Economics himself needs to understand what tax incentives, besides financial and administrative, are now going to be made from the industrial parks that our committee is working on, a powerful tool that Ukraine will compete with in the world and ensure the expansion of Ukrainian exports. And it is the minister of the economy who should be an example of respect for himself and the country in front of international financial organizations and our foreign partners, defending the same long-awaited location that our committee is working on, and which is tired of waiting not only for Ukrainian deputies, but also for Ukrainian factories and factories, Ukrainian workers. Waiting while ministers of the economy of European countries, such as France, publicly state that the requirement for localization by Ukraine is legal and understandable. Alexei Mikolaiovich, I sincerely want to believe that your assignment is an opportunity for our nation to start defending Ukrainian interests. And that's why the members of the committee at their meeting supported the nomination of Ljubchenko Alexi Mikolaiovich and recommended that the Supreme Council appoint him to the post of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u158	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, there are many statements in local self - government, including in the Lviv City Council today regarding government activities. And they can be brought briefly to these -- whatever. I would like to read to you some of these, Mr. Prime Minister and Ministers and candidates for the minister. The reform of decentralization allowed for the transfer of as many credentials as possible. But can we talk about the real capacity of communities when the government is pursuing chaotic and unprogrammed policies? And unfortunately, the new staffing changes in the Cabinet of Ministers indicate that the authorities continue to put out fires with the hope of a better future. But the problem is much deeper, it's a crisis in government. Our ministers do not operate on clear targets and goals they want to achieve. As a result, the government’s vision of the state’s development is blurred. The absence of a program creates our uncompetitiveness in the world economy and drives us into an ever-increasing trap of poverty. The government is plunging around budget lines and prefers to get another loan tranche, but it is completely ignoring those who bring real revenue to the budget – the Ukrainian business, the Ukrainian citizen. Any minister should have a vision -- a vision of where the country is going, not saying that we don't have any models and this vision. We hope that the government will finally build its work on the basis of a program with concrete indicators. Then the assessment of the effectiveness of the ministers ’ work will become evident, devoid of any political coloring. It doesn't matter if there's no reform strategy and no crisis exit plan. And what I would like to say is that Ukraine's economic success, the economic success of every Ukrainian, should become Ukraine's national idea today. Only then can we talk about victory in war and the restoration of full sovereignty in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u160	Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u161	Thank you. My mother taught me that people should be judged by matters, not by words. And today we have the opportunity to evaluate Mr. Lovechenko in matters that we have observed with you during the year of his leadership by the Ukrainian State Tax Service, when, when the GDP caused by the coronation was falling, when the economy was not in a better condition, there was no month without overcoming the plans of the government budget. There wasn't a month before we exceeded the steady 19th year in the 20th year of VAT. This indicates only one thing: it shows that a person has been strategically, systematically opposed to tax fraud. We have 4 months this year plus 7 percent of the budget overrun. We've got plus 10.7 billion VAT redundancies, 4 months in a year, 1.5 times 19 years, 20 years in a row, I'm sorry. And it all happened without any pressure on business. It all happened exclusively within the limits of authority and exclusively within the framework of legislation. Appropriately, this testifies to the effectiveness of this person in office, government office, one of the principal positions in the public service. This indicates that he can and forms an effective team; he has a strategic vision. And he's certainly able to take care of larger projects within the country. So I am, of course, and as a faction, we support this candidacy as First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economics. We want Alexei Mikolaiovich to finally give a vision, a strategic plan, a progressive industrial support plan, support for high-value industries, support for high-tech exports, not raw exports, as it is now, and attract investment. We will do everything we can to help Mr. Lovechenko in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u162	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u163	Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Claimant! First of all, it must be stressed that the economic crisis caused by the pandemic is still going on. And that determines the high responsibility of a person who will take the liberty of leading the Ministry of Economics, called upon to ensure the dynamic development of the domestic economy under such difficult conditions. Igor Rostislavovich Petrashka, former Economy Minister, was able to prevent the worst scenarios. It can be said that the domestic economy has endured the challenges of the coronation that came before it in the 20th year. The declines in GDP were only 4 percent at much higher rates of economic decline in more developed countries. However, the 21st year should be the year of Ukraine's economic growth. In the 21st year, our country has to play those lost in the 20th year 4 percent as a result of the gradual recovery of economic, investment activities, the recovery of the world economy and the suppression of the consequences of the pandemic. For the sake of the new minister, a favourable situation in the world’s commodity markets and the recovery of demand may certainly play a role in the background of the crisis. On the other hand, I wanted the new minister to make every effort to deprive Ukraine of its raw status. First of all, it's about creating the necessary incentives and creating preconditions for the sustainable development of the economy. Regrettably, an appropriate legislative initiative has been set aside in the Supreme Council. However, we believe that such a practice is essential, it is used in most countries that care about the development of the domestic industry. The Ministry of Economics responsible for the new checker should generate effective models and mechanisms to support the development of the domestic industry. In particular, I would like to turn a potential minister into a state-of-the-art state-of-the-art economy, namely, state-owned enterprises. Regrettably, the work that began in this direction has remained unfinished and requires some rethinking, new approaches, and management technologies. The traditional direction of the ministry should be to develop external trade, which is to promote domestic goods in the external markets. In this direction, many of the previous checkers have already been made, but most issues have not yet been settled. In the absence of time, we will not continue to generalize all the challenges. Now it's about the minister's person. Alexei Mikolaiovich is a professional who has experience in effective work both in government and in business structures. This is very important in terms of shaping the policies of the Mineconomy based on understanding the problems and needs of the business community, the development of the domestic economy, taking into account the expectations of economic operators. The "Trust" MP will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u164	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u165	People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Members of the Cabinet of Ministers, Honorable Candidate, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! First of all, by taking advantage of the opportunity, let me congratulate all the employees of the Ukrainian banking sector on today’s professional day as a bank worker, wishing them health and professional success. I think that, let's say, symbolically, today we are approving, you are approving, a new candidate, the new First Deputy Prime Minister of the Economy, who, I understand, will be responsible in the Cabinet of Ministers for liaison with the National Bank. I'm a little confused that right now at the next meeting, you're the same, honourable majority, planning to pass laws on the IMF agreement that completely destroy the independence of the Ukrainian banking sector and completely subordinate it to the external government. I'd like to say, you know, for the second time in my life, I see a candidate, he was at the Economic Development Committee meeting yesterday, today at a Council meeting, and he, let's say, made an impression on me on a fairly professional and experienced man. I liked the words he said in this rostrum about localization regarding the support of the national manufacturer. The only problem is how much the candidate's skills and experience will be directed towards those goals that are in today's Cabinet of Ministers. Because in recent years the Cabinet of Ministers, under the leadership of the current Prime Minister, has demonstrated, in my view, zero results in terms of economic work. That's what we see from the point of view of all industrial development indicators, GDP and so on. This is what the whole country sees on their wallets. One of the key points, as I see it, is that the new authorities are talking about it, that they have started a major privatization. In the candidate's words, there were just words that were very important to the state's influence on the market. So in all civilized countries, the share of government property in strong economies is between 35 percent and 40 percent. I would very much like us to really accept the program that the government is going to be working on, because now we don't understand where it's going to go, so that the words that came out of the platform from the candidate, they proved true to really be supporting the national economy itself. In this case, I can say that our faction will do everything to support those positive ideas that, God forbid, will finally come out of the Cabinet of Ministers. And at this point, I'm holding on to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u166	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u167	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I am addressing the distinguished Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, please pay attention to the speech, to Mr. Lyubchenk's distinguished candidate. Guys, we've got a fourth already. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but we're here for you. That's what I really want you to listen to, not just these walkers. I want to turn and say, this is the fourth minister of the economy, who will probably now be appointed, judging by everything. The fourth minister in two years of President Zelenski, who is now giving his final press conference. We have a lot of economic ministers, and the economy is bad. We're having a fall in GDP, and we're starting to have a downturn. The decline in industrial production, then the decline in GDP, after four years of GDP growth for "poperedniks." And after that, the GDP is falling, we have huge problems. Why? Because President Greensky has absolutely no course that he's taking towards the development of the economy of the state. And the result is that we lose economically, lose and lose. I want to tell you the specific things that you can do right now, you don't have to wait. The first is, of course, to put the system in order of energy. Tell me, how much longer are we going to buy Russian, Belarusian electricity, send a billion dollars to the aggressor and the country under sanctions instead of developing our own? Tell me, please, how do we get help from "investment babysitters" and what investors in general are we waiting for (and without investors there will be no growth in the economy) if we continue to violate agreements that are, for example, in the field of alternative energy? They're not completely implemented. They tricked investors one, two, three times. You don't pay your debts now. Tell me, who will believe that you can bring a dollar to this country if what you bring here does not work, the government does not fulfill its obligations, the Supreme Council does not fulfill its obligations? Please tell me, what should be the main goal of the government’s economic policy? It's not just budgeting. These are jobs and wages for people are the main thing. There'll be nothing without everything. And that's why it's so important for us that now that you're preparing tax changes so that in these tax changes, you don't destroy the "white" sector of the economy, but rather from the shadow sector of the economy. Those who don't pay anything at all were brought out to start paying taxes instead of killing the white sector. Because you can't live by the principle that to give more milk and spend less on it, let's feed it less and feed it more, so we don't have to work. There's my initiative on self-employed workers, draft law, in the Supreme Council. We're willing to help you if you really want to develop an economy, but you don't believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u168	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u169	Please pass the word to the Deputy Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u170	Please, Deputy Skrum, who I understand has gone to that faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u171	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I'd like to use this time to ask the candidate for the post of Minister of Economics, Mr. Ljubchenk's First Vice-Prime Minister, because unfortunately I haven't been able to ask him a question. Mr. Lyubchenko, you're actually running today, not just for the Minister of Economics, but for the First Deputy Prime Minister. That means you'll have, hopefully, a lot more opportunities to coordinate the economic piece, to coordinate and support the processing, and for other important things. But that means that this room and we're going to ask you the same more, because you're not only going to be the minister, but, I see, the First Vice Prime Minister. You weren't afraid to say a few very important things, frankly, I'm impressed with your approach here. You're probably the first candidate of a future minister who wasn't afraid to say the word "localization" that sometimes scares our politicians, but you shouldn't be afraid of it. You weren't afraid to say that we should increase the role of the state in the economy and bring in international examples -- it really is. You said you were ready to support the processing in our exports, and you probably know that today processing is less than 20 percent. But I do have two or two questions to ask you that are no longer answered, depending on whether I am ready to vote for you or not. Nevertheless, you were doing tax and tax work. Today, if you're appointed by a minister, you have to do the opposite and stimulate the economy. I don't think total tax fiscalization can have a positive impact on the economy, with the downturn that we have today. So I'm asking you to become a full-fledged minister of the economy and forget some of the experience you've had in tax matters. And the others. Today we have a critical situation, and I hope you understand that you have no illusions about it. We have in the first quarter of this year the amount of capital accumulation is at least 20 years. That means simple language, we don't have any money to spare. This has resulted in a drop in GDP for the most part in the last 12 years -- about 11 percent. This means that we've consumed much more than we've produced. And here in our tax committee there's the Export Credit Agency Act, you said export incentives, but export incentives should be in the areas where there's the biggest processing. And I hope you realize that. Because these industries are extremely few today, and these exports account for less than 20 percent. If you're willing to do that, if you're willing to make a bid for localization, support for a national producer, support for an increase in the role of the state in the economy, especially in times of crisis, then I will personally and our faction will be able to support you, but asking you will be a hundred times more. Thank you. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u172	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, as already noted by my colleague at the Alona Shkrum faction, "The Fatherland" hopes that First Vice-Prime Minister Alexi Ljubchenk, Minister of Economics, will succeed. It will be possible to do what he said today by speaking out of this rostrum. And first of all, we sincerely hope that he will take over not only the role of Minister of Economy, but I remind you that in today's name of Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, he will understand accordingly the importance and role of agriculture, which is until the full-fledged Ministry of the APC works and will take care of this part of the economy. He expressed support for a localization project signed by many colleagues of all the factions that the Ukrainian economy needs today. And I sincerely hope that the experience and the results that he has shown as a taxpayer for more than a year at a difficult time, as a member of the tax committee, I highly appreciate, and he will be able to implement them by making an appropriate strategy for a government that, unfortunately, we don't see today. That strategy that we put in place, we didn't support you as a hall, we need a strategy for the government, we need a strategy for economic development. Accordingly, the Export Credit Agency, the support of industry, are the basic key elements that both the minister and the professional vice-premier should think of. I sincerely hope that with the change of the taxpayer there, the actual fight against shadow schemes, which was actively initiated by Mr. Lyubchenk, will not return those elements that were abused both by the VAT and by the "crushes", which was clearly defined by our TSC, the parliamentary TSC, which is headed by John Krulko. I want to say that as an opposition party and an opposition faction, we will lend our trust to this First Vice-Prime Minister of Economics. But I sincerely hope that his words will not go away either, as he pointed out in the tax room, and the hall will be constructive in supporting him. And the government and the government's economic bloc will work more closely with the Supreme Council's trade committees, with economic development committees, the tax committee, the agrarian committee and everyone else. That's why Fatherland will support this candidate. And we look forward to working with the Supreme Council. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u174	Thank you. Please proceed to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. In accordance with article 85 of the 114th Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Petzchenko Alexija Mikolaiovich as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:25:16]] For 293 Decision taken. Show by factions. "People's Servant" – 228, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 3, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 18, "Party for the Future" – 13, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 20, "non-factional" – 11. I would like to ask the committee of profile, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to prepare a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the day of his appointment shall serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Economy of Ukraine Alexei Mikolaiovich Ljubchenko is invited to make an oath on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u175	I, Ljubchenko Alexei Mikolaiovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the welfare of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u176	Congratulations! Congratulations, Alexei Mikolayovich! [[Applause]] I want success, strength and victory! You'll have the opportunity to speak during "the hour of questions to the government." Dear colleagues, the next question of the agenda is the bill's registration number 4066, it's the first one again. Can we not discuss this? I am voting for a proposal to refer the draft Law (Registration No. 4066) to the Committee for Re-reading the National Commission on National Regulation for Electronic Communications, Radio Spectrums and Postal Services in Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[13:28:03]] For 296 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Law on the Deradation of Ukrainian Legislation (Registration No. 4284). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:28:34]] For 249 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u177	Your Honour, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the Law on the Deradation of Ukrainian Legislation. What is this law about? It's not about politics, it's about the quality of Ukrainian legislation. It's about, unfortunately, there are over 40,000 legal acts in the US today. This is a major catastrophe, because when we accuse the judiciary, we forget that the quality of legal acts is the main task of the Ukrainian Parliament. And that's why we started this job in stages. And the first step we're showing you. We did not go through the arbitrary cancellation of all acts of the Soviet Union and the Ukrainian RSR. During the year, we penned all the acts and left the issue of international and other acts that ensure territorial integrity, the sovereignty of Ukraine. We have left acts relating to the issue of national title, a landmark to preserve the memory of the people of Ukraine. We have paid attention to other issues that cannot be stopped, particularly the participation of Ukraine in other international conventions and treaties. What do we suggest? First. We propose to finally remove from the Ukrainian legislation any mention of comsomol, Soviet power, and the very important thing is that we no longer build Lenin Communism, as provided for in the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code, which is in force today. Dear friends, I think today, I'm looking at the hall, it's the best day to start the process of deradating Ukrainian legislation. We're beautiful in embroidery, the embroidery is the QR code of every Ukrainian. Let's show that it's not only outside, but inside each of us, and let's start this process. All the other questions I'm willing to discuss between first and second reading. We'll support Ukrainian legislation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u178	Fellow dignitaries are invited to the report by the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Litvinov’s construction committee, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u179	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The Committee on Governmental Organizations, Local Government, Regional Development and Urbanization considered at its meeting a draft Ukrainian Law on Deradation of Ukrainian Legislation (registration number 4284). As a result of the general discussion, the Committee adopted a conclusion: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with section 1, paragraph 1, and article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft Ukrainian law on the deradation of Ukrainian legislation (registration number 4284), on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. I am also informed that this bill has come to the conclusion of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which believes that the implementation of its provisions will have no impact on the budgetary indicators; the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has also expressed observations and proposals; and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, which has expressed its position on this draft law of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support this bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u180	Thank you. Is there a need for discussion, fellow believers? Yes. Please sign up: two for, two for, please. Please, Olga Stefanishin, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u182	Please, Mr. Roman Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u183	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Ukrainians, respected friends, colleagues! Deradiation is a matter of great importance. And those who ask, "What difference does it make?" Are they still asking, I think on embroidery day especially when we're all externally showing the importance of our identity, the question of "what's the difference?" It has to be rhetorical. And the answer to that question must be: a very important difference and very important questions, including deradation. As for this bill, of course, there's a very good part of this bill: it's clearing up the archaics and clearing out the Ukrainian legislation, from our system of workers, comrades and so on -- things that in modern Ukraine no longer have room but have to go back to history. But there's another part of this bill, it's a failure. And I want authors, Mr. Vice Speaker and colleagues from the "Serve of the People" to come up with such issues in a much more complex way. And real change requires that the Cabinet of Ministers, along with other ministries, simultaneously amend the Code of Labour, the Housing Code, the Code of Administrative Violations. Because there are so many of these things. And in this bill, unfortunately, these issues are not resolved. And another very important moment is the question of consistency. If we're talking about real deradanization, if we're talking about real decommunization, why did the agenda of our meetings go away, especially by renaming Novgorodski to New York? Why do we have some kind of deradation and some kind of deradation? Why we're talking about renaming, but then somehow the most important population points that are on the line of delimitation are gone. Get New York back in the daytime, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u184	Thank you. Kirilo Nesterenko, "Serve of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Dmitri Luboto.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u186	Please, Dmitri Lubota.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u187	Colleagues, in the current Ukrainian legislation, still have such terms as "workers", "The Union of the RSR", "The Ukrainian RSR", "The Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union" and "The Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR" and others. It must have taken 30 years for the People's Servant to come to power to finally change these laws of the Soviet Union into modern Ukrainians. The initial draft law is the first project on the path to systematization, codification and further deradation of independent Ukraine's legislation. It will ensure that Ukrainian legislation is adapted to European Union legislation, which is one of the priorities of Ukraine's foreign policy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u188	Irina Heratschenko, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u189	To give the word to Mr. Váterovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u190	Vladimir Vjatrović. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u191	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Indeed, Embroidery Day is the best opportunity for deradation. And I probably, as one of the initiators of decommunization in Ukraine, would have liked this bill because of its very name. What's more, I like his first part -- the amendments to the Labour Code and the Housing Code. Finally, the idea of Leninism, Communism, and so forth will be removed from the legislative field. But this law contains chapter II, which sows true legal chaos. It is proposed to take note that this is a direct quote from the law, not from a party assembly protocol, so it is proposed to take note that in Ukraine the acts of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union are not applicable, except in their provisions that do not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Law of Enactment and apply to sovereignty, the Administration and the State Awards. Think about that formulation. Who and how, and in what form, do hundreds of these plugins work and in what form do they not work? Moreover, what is extremely important is that the Constitution provides for a completely opposite approach. Acts operate in a part that does not conflict with the Constitution. How do we know that they are not working? And why mix in the apps both the actions and the long-delayed acts? What will the adoption of this law mean? By the year 2021, what do we recognize that some of the regulations of the Soviet National Commissioners’ Council were in force? Dear colleagues, the real deradanization is to write and adopt laws, not in Soviet but in European. Dear colleagues, I think it's very bad to try to stop decommunization. And even worse, there are attempts to simulate decommunization. That is the attempt of this law. Therefore, "European Solidarity" will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u192	Thank you. Anton Polyakov, Party for the Future. Mr. Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u193	Society, I don't share pessimism about this bill. Although it is, of course, complex and recyclable, it is not just part of decommunization. The problem with the End Positions of this bill, which is about changing the Labour Code and the Housing Code. There are nine bills in Parliament today that are not explicitly supported by the unions. And we also commit the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop a new, tenth draft by the end of the year. Let's split up deradanization, decommunization and the invasion of the rights of the unions. I very much hope that this can be corrected for the second reading. Although it is surprising that the authors did not see this coming first. And now, essentially. Why is this bill important? Once, as deputy head of the Kyiv City State Administration, I came up with the idea that government flags should be required for all municipal and state institutions. For them to be hanged not only on festival days but also on all days, for they are our national symbols. An order project was prepared. KMDA lawyers wrote that we cannot accept it because this bill contradicts the Soviet Symbolism Act, which was valid at the time of its adoption. We then found the political will and KMDA head Leonid Chernewicki signed the order. So these are the normative documents that we have today, and we have thousands of them once and for all to say: Get lost, you rascal! Hubby, the period that led to the death of millions of Ukrainians!".. But let's not forget the comas, dots and things that go beyond deradation, decommunization. We vote "yes" in the first reading and we work very hard in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u194	Please, Paul the Bakunec and the "Trust" Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u195	Madam Chairman, honourable national deputies, of course, today is the day of the Ukrainian embroidery, when we all show our unity in our appearance together, the very best time, in fact, and our actions to show how we love and how we strengthen our best, all of our Ukrainian. So actually, the first reading of the deradation bill today is on time. And even though it has the right goal, there are some technical underdevelopments that I think will be corrected for the second reading. That's why the Trust MPs voted in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, Vasil Nimchenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay particular attention to the conclusions of the experts on this bill, the bill. And I'm very surprised that the vice-speaker is speaking on this bill and he says to support it while experts clearly indicate that it is essentially contrary to the interests of the nation and the Constitution. There are laws, there are laws on the succession of Ukraine, where we pass all laws. Whoever worked as a law enforcement officer knows that today we have 45,000 legal acts in the USSR, and they operate on workbooks, after work, after birth, after actual marriages in the 43rd year. What are we doing with this? Do you need a deredication? People need to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u198	Thank you. Did all the national MPs say who they wanted? All of them. Please prepare for the vote then, dear colleagues. So the committee of profile asks the Supreme Council to accept the bill as a basis. Are the national MPs ready to vote? Please, we're taking all our seats. Thus, it is up to the vote to adopt the draft Law on the Deradation of Ukrainian Legislation (order 4284). Ladies and gentlemen, may I have the floor to vote? Let's make a decision, please. [[13:44:05]] For 264 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u199	Thank you, dear colleagues, for your support. And we're preparing for the second reading. We're moving on. Our bill 2689 is a second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich to the rostrum. Denis Anatolyovich, is there a lot of amendments? Will someone insist on repairs? So Mr. Zabrodsky has 10 amendments, he's asking for 3 minutes. Please turn on Mr. Zabrodsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, any law, he's always a stick at two ends. But in this particular case, it seems that the end that we're going to hold with you is going to strike extremely painfully. We all know that in war, a person usually works at the limits of his physical and psychological abilities. We all know that war produces comparatively heroes and scum, usually in proportion to each other. We all know the great role the commander plays in the war. This is the person whose will, decision, and action depend on the success of the battle task. This is what the prescribed law offers for those who are responsible for others. A series of raisins made up of the law. Enough has been said about the composition of the legal and linguistic structure "knowed and might have known." From now on, there will be no need to prove to the court that the commander knew about the crime of the subordinate, enough to prove that he could have known, and that at today’s level of communication of all kinds. Secondly, the law preserves the rule regarding the reverse action of the law at a time that is unacceptable in modern legislation. The third, very interesting thing is that the commander will be called to criminal responsibility, not for idleness and not for negligence, but for the same article, where he will be held accountable and subordinate, regardless of where he was at that time, where he was at a distance. Enough, I repeat, what he might have known. A separate lineage special for the Armed Forces of Ukraine: all articles of the law, all changes applied only to the Armed Forces. Dear authors of the law, translators, I would like to point out that your opponent is already ahead of you. He doesn't have the Armed Forces for a long time, he has a national police called the LNR and the DNR. Question: "What are the other improvements that need to be made?" Do you think by this law you can bring to the responsibility of someone who runs a fire from residential neighborhoods or has a team site in a kindergarten? No, it's not. Someone needs a head on a plate. I'm not sure that that's exactly the kind of change that your supporters, the distinguished representatives of the majority, voted for. Almost a year ago, an asshole who somehow associated himself with the ruling party told me: we're going to do everything to make you ashamed of your orders, we're going to do everything we can to make the idea of a member of the ATO, the OOS is a profanity, and we're going to do it in a perfectly legitimate way. Do not make a celebration for him or anyone like him. The Trojan Horse, with 2689 onboard, is already in this room. Don't let the trap get caught. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u201	Thank you. Everything? Coltunovich? After all the adjustments you've made, you're going? Mom, change the number. Give me three minutes? Number three? Edit 3, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u202	Dear national deputies, if there are laws and regulations that operate in Ukraine, then it will act. Well, it's impossible the Rome Statute. If we're talking about ratifying it, we have to make a decision. The first is to ratify the Rome Statute, then it will be true. Well, it is not possible to take individual criteria of the Rome Statute and implement it into our legislation. With my permission, I propose to exclude in article 8, such an expression, such a legislative initiative by some legislators that a person will be called to account, regardless of where they are done, will have the jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine. I mean, in another state, I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u203	I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:51]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Fedina. Don't insist. Heroceno. He insists. Irina Volodymyrna, will you insist on every direction? How about three minutes and we move on? Oh, no? I'm sorry. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u204	Dear colleagues of the majority, I very much ask you to hear me now. This law is really important. And to us, and to a great extent, public organizations, law-enforcement organizations have been asked to adopt a law that will actually bring to criminal responsibility the bastards who raped, killed in occupied territories, and in order for that to happen, there should be no statute of limitations. Unfortunately, however, all our amendments that would make it impossible to manipulate the Ukrainian Armed Forces under this bill were not accepted. My colleague, our esteemed General Mikhailo Zabrodsky, took the pain of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in his three minutes, unfortunately, when the masters of the Hall. When an important law, because of our unacceptable amendments, can work against Ukrainian soldiers, with a hindsight, absolutely groundless. That's why our team is going to follow this amendment, because we want everyone who's killed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u205	I'm betting on the vote number eight. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. Edit Heroshenko. [[13:51:39]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Yakowiev at the end, huh? In the end, three minutes, okay. 19th Amendment, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u206	Dear colleagues of the vast majority, please believe that today many generals, officers, commanders are afraid to make decisions that need to be made quickly in combat because they fear that they can then be held accountable for their actions. And it's better not to do anything. And this amendment 19 is the key to determining whether our faction will vote in favour of this law. We demand that it be adopted and removed from the bill by establishing criminal responsibility for military commanders who actually act as military commanders for making decisions. You are thus simply tying your hands to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And my colleague rightly pointed out that that's not how you punish fighters, because they're long ago called the "national police." Guys, don't do this. It has nothing to do with international law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u207	I'm betting on the vote number 19 of the national MP, Heratchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:24]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 23rd Amendment, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u208	Dear National Deputies! I'm still asking you to read and get more involved in these bills. Why? Because it has already been accepted that a person who has committed a crime or an act but falls within our scope of the Criminal Code or is not subject to it, the law does not determine. Someone came up with something, but Ukrainian justice has the authority to execute justice in that case. I would point out, however, that the new law or bill introduces a new terminology, and notice, "the person whose actions should be." or "we used to know people" - that's what's going to be the responsibility. Or notice, the concept of "invasion" is already being interpreted as "or it was intended to do" which are related actions that could have been done. That's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u209	I'll bet you 23 Mama's vote. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:56]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 27th Amendment, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u210	People's deputies are venerable! Well, you can't break individual standards of work and the structure of codes. Well, there's a systemic approach to: (a) a code of regulation and criminalization, and the Criminal Procedure Code is a mechanism of attraction. How can you, by such expressions and by law, hold individuals accountable for words, expressions, and think about it? Or "knowingly." What, though, can be assumed unwittingly? Indiscretion is then determined by law. Or "we were going to do it," but you're not making any changes. So we should be responsible for what you think — responsibility already. Where are the criteria, and where is the damage? Why we're breaking the system with one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u211	I'm betting on the vote of the 27th Amendment of Mama. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:26]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thirty-eight. I can see you're not yelling. I'll find all the paperwork, don't worry. Thirty-eight, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u212	Colleagues, please listen to how important this amendment is. I want to say again that as a person who has spent five years freeing hostages and has been in constant contact with their families, with law enforcement organizations, I sincerely want us to adopt a law that will allow us to simply arrest and plant all the scum involved in the torture of Ukrainians. But if this law is adopted, it will work against the Ukrainian Armed Forces and bind the hands of our own commanders. So what do we propose with this amendment? Write in the following classification: "The age does not apply in the case of crimes against the foundations of national security provided for in the articles. " It's still counted. To protect, in fact, our Armed Forces of Ukraine. And to make it a long time ago only for those involved in war crimes: the overthrow of Boeing, torture, rape in the United Nations operations zone. I ask you to support Amendment 38.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u213	I'm betting on the vote number 38, Heroshenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:07]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 39th. Fuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u214	I'm not 39, I'm 56.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u215	39th Amendment, Mamka Grigori Mikolayovich. If you don’t have this amendment, you must have given it in a strange way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u216	Dear National Deputies! This bill says (pay attention!) on partial ratification and implementation of the rules of the Rome Statute to our legislation. If someone tells us that, on the basis of these new standards, we can defend our interests, we can investigate the criminal conduct that will be carried out within the territory of the State of Ukraine, in international institutions, it is all false. If there's a 100 percent implementation of the Rome Statute, then we're a party. If it is implemented that we now see, in part, we will never be a participant, but only politically.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u217	I'll bet you 39 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:35]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 54th, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Zabrodsky told of threats to his address, which will be done in this room to make the United Nations operation a taurus. You know, yesterday I also received threats from the majority that my involvement in freeing the hostages would likewise be an object, you know, pressure and attacks. I'm not ashamed that I did this job and fired hundreds of people. But I can see that you're actually planning to protect the scum that at this time either did nothing or destroyed the Ukrainian military and attack those who actually made decisions and fought for the country. I ask you to accept this amendment, because it deals with criminal responsibility for those who have not taken care of our wounded. So it's about those who seem to be considered doctors in occupied areas, but did completely different things. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u219	I'm betting on the vote number 54. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:58]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 56 of Mama's law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that if there are two norms competing with each other in the same code, it will be chaos. For example, the standard proposed in the new bill is article 434, and I propose that it be amended. Because direct competition, one responsibility and uncertainty of the articles, competition with article 139 (unsupplied by a sick medical worker), is competing. If one of the standards is more competitive, then there's already a corruption component. What qualifications an investigator or a detective should be given if it is not purchased will be determined by each investigator in each office to investigate the conduct of the investigation. Please exclude or accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u221	I'm betting on a vote of 56 Mama's. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:25]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 61, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, distinguished Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u223	Please turn on Mommy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u224	Dmitri Alexanderovich, thank you. Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! Note, though, that we will make the law a nonsensus, which will be prescribed in the law, because of the nature of the crime, seriousness, and scale. I suggest we turn it off. Because the seriousness will be determined in what way? What is the severity, scale, or geographical dimension? Honorable national MPs, the law should indicate responsibility for action, but for specific ones. There should be no philosophy in the law. Philosophy should be used in educational institutions and in dissertations, and the law should clearly define the concept. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u225	I'll bet you 61 Moms. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:14]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 57 fines, Heroshenko. The committee considered it in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, do you know that today a desert court is relieved of responsibility for 512 fines. And did you know that the commander who made the decision to send an ambulance to save a man who was shot and wounded would be judged for negligence? This law will only make things worse for the commanders. You tie your hands to a Ukrainian command that will not make operational decisions. Once again, I sincerely want our entire faction to urge you to compromise this law -- to protect the Ukrainian military and punish the bastards who are shooting at the Ukrainian military. Unfortunately, none of our amendments are accepted, although I sincerely request Mr. Monastirssky’s answers here. We spent tens of hours working together on amendments, working with public organizations, so that the law wouldn't beat against Ukrainian military hindsight and that it would be responsible for who was killing them. Corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u227	I'll bet you 57 votes. It's taken into account by the committee in part. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:46]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 57 revisions remain partially accounted for. No, they're through, next one's yours. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, 68 revisions, Heratschenko is part of the committee. 58th Amendment, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u228	Dear colleagues of greatness, there is a subject where I am to you and our team to you and to the country not in opposition -- that is to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, that is to protect the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And with the responsibility of all those who are killing our soldiers and civilian populations today. And that's why we're now appealing to public organizations, law enforcement organizations that have asked us to support this bill. We want to support it if we take into account the amendments that we are now fighting for, which will protect the Armed Forces of Ukraine, our commanders, who have made decisions in too many circumstances in 2014-2015. They could have been inactive, and Putin would have been under Kiev by now. And now, well, you're pretending that you're voting against the Hero of Amendments. What are you doing?Oh, my God! I urge you to hear me. I want to protect today and those who have suffered.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u229	I'll bet you 58 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:30.]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next item. Fuck, 64th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u230	The honourable people's deputies, the bill, there are distinctions, and new criteria and concepts are introduced as "regular forces." I propose to replace it because "regular" is a broader concept than "regular" and "unregular". If you want to enter, I'll tell you how the purpose of the law is done. The purpose of the law, it exists. First the goal, the criteria, the definition, and then the introduction of norms into the law. But the question of defining the territory of Ukraine with new concepts and without justification, is that I would like to pay attention to the replacement of words. And "regular forces" are replaced by "regular armed formations."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u231	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u232	My colleagues, I didn't comment on your previous performances. Let me comment on this and the next. All terminology is defined in international humanitarian law. This is the term “regular armed forces” used in the UN General Assembly resolution. And these are recognized international terms that can give rise to the right and the opportunity to recognize the judgments of Ukrainian courts in international institutions. And so on all of these issues, every term is checked with all the experts, with the lawyers. He is also already in the Criminal Code, article 146. Learn the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u233	I'll bet you 64 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:45]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 69, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u234	Thank you, Your Honor, for calling attention to me in order to teach me the standards of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. But I would like to draw your attention to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Amendments to Legislative Acts. Here it is, here are more than 15 notes. We will learn, but first we need to address the points -- implement either the codex or separate standards. If anyone does not understand, it is important to pay attention: (a) to the operation of the code, the place, the time and its jurisdiction; and to the international agreements that are ratified in Ukraine. It can't be the same thing you're talking about? There is either a codex or a treaty. Other ratifications if they change what you do with.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u235	The 69th Amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:21]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next 70, Vasilenko. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u236	78th, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u237	Colleagues, this amendment applies to damaged property. Do you understand what it was like to be 14 or 15 years old when our army didn't even have any cars, and in what circumstances did the commanders then decide on the possible expropriation of even machines on the collision line to either get the wounded out or protect the country? And this is the amendment that you're going to put the back number on their responsibility for deliberate property damage. Who will determine whether the property has been damaged intentionally or unintentionally in extreme circumstances? Please stop, my friends. I want to tell you once again, we want to vote in favour of this law so that collaborators, militants, pro-Russian bastards who are fighting the Ukrainian army will be held accountable. But this law actually threatens thousands of commanders, thousands of honest officers who have gone to the volunteers who are now serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and whose law will now be pursued. Well, support this amendment. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u238	I'm betting on a vote of 78 Heratchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:12]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 82nd, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u239	I see that appealing to the majority, which unfortunately only once was in the army before the elections, you know, it's useless. I'm talking to you like a man who saw our boys with their hands cut off with crosses on their bodies. And I sincerely want everyone who tortures Ukrainian soldiers to be punished. But unfortunately, I want to be heard by the public organizations that are calling on us to adopt this law. This law now strikes the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Mr. Monastery, I want you to answer my question in public right now. Have you and I sought compromise under this law? Or did we give you corrections and formulations that would secure back-numbers from the attack on the Ukrainian Armed Forces from an attack on some property damage, from the fact that the commanders did not make the decision. And so that we leave responsibility exclusively to those people who are involved in the torture of the civilian population and the killing of Ukrainians. And why these amendments are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u240	I'm betting on the vote number 82, Heroshenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:41]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 98 lashes, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the findings of the General Legal Authority, which needs to be taught by the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedural Code, and I personally point out that terminology is used in changes to the law by completely different ones that are used in the systematic approach to the application of the law. For example, my 98th law suggests that I replace the word "humanity" with "humanity," because the word "humanity" is used in the law. This part of the first article of Article 1 of the Criminal Code has its task, where it is prescribed: to ensure the protection of human rights and freedoms and of citizens, property, public order and public security, the environment, the constitutional system of Ukraine against criminal offences, the provision of peace and security, notice, humanity. Please consider my application and replace the word "humanity" with "humanity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u242	I'll bet you 98 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:05]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 107th, Herotschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, we would like to call you to a constructive approach. We propose that this bill be sent for re-reading, working out the moments that will allow. I fully agree with Mr. Monastirski that we really need this bill so that we don't merge the crimes of old age against the civilian population and the military on the side of illegal armed forces. But I call on you and me to put up a warrant for possible criminal reprisals against the Ukrainian Armed Forces, against the commanders. I call on the Voice faction, Fatherland, I call on the People's Servant, let's work together on this bill and adopt it. We want to accept it. I want to hear this first and foremost from the public organizations that we've worked with, both on the law and on the amendments. But considering the state of the courts today, how many veterans and volunteers are under trial today, please refer to the Riff case that has been announced throughout the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u244	I'm betting on a vote of 107, Heratchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:31]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 108 lashes, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, the law is adopted to respond to certain challenges. And when the law on restrictions enters into force and acts, it should be effective from the time that the law provides for its entry into force. Well, you can't go back to the time of the law until it works without it, so that's nonsense. Well, the reverse at the time of the law is clearly limited and regulated by the laws of Ukraine. We're re-entering "Transitional positions" again: they can if they're softened. Why, then, do Lozov’s other regulations, if softened, not put into effect? It is necessary to create indecisively, at least uniformly, not selectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u246	I'll bet you a vote of 108. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:57]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 120 lashes, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u247	During my years in the Tripartite Contact Group, I saved hundreds of hostages, and yesterday I received threats to my address from the leadership of the majority that I did not conduct the negotiations. This is an example of how if there was idleness, they just sat there and they wrote, you know, everything would be good, and those who worked didn't get fired, they didn't negotiate, they didn't make those decisions. Such threats were heard by my colleague Mikhailo Zabrodsky, a war general, to whom the majority are similarly threatened that he was involved in the country’s liberation. And this law, we think, will also strengthen the responsibility of those who participated in the liberation of the Ilowisk and the Debaltz. Those who participated in the liberation of Saur-Mogila, Donetsk, Lugansk, airport, Mariupola, Audiwka, Slovenian, Kramatar, dozens of locations, and today you're putting them at risk. I want the responsibility of those who fought with the Ukrainian army to destroy the civilian population. But no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u248	I'm betting on a vote of 120 amendments, national deputies Heratchenko and Ionova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:30.]] For-65 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u249	Next line, extreme turn of Heratchenko, 124. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u250	This vote is being followed today by public and law-enforcement organizations that are really waiting for parliament to strengthen the responsibility of those involved in war crimes. And that's why we're here. At the same time, the same vote is being followed by our Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are under attack, who today are not allowed to defend the country, who are being punished with a bracelet for allowing themselves to shoot back. And now we're going to adopt a law under which corrupt Ukrainian non-reform courts will make decisions, under which conditions we don't have military courts. So, incompetent people who have never been to war will make decisions like that, and rightfully, was property damaged? Could it have been avoided or not? Guys, let's get this law back to second reading. I have great respect for Mr. Monastery. You know, we've been ready to spend tens of hours with you to work out this law, protect those who have suffered from the Russian Federation and protect the Ukrainian army that has protected us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u251	I'm betting on the 124th edition of Heratchenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:10]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Two minutes, Yakovloveva. Please turn on the microphone instead of the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u252	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I had 25 rights to deal with the issue of sexual violence associated with the conflict. Sadly, they were rejected by the committee. But I want to point out that this bill is strategically important. This bill is strategically important in terms of human rights. Today, there is such a situation that people guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity remain unpunished, and today we are to put an end to this impunity. Including this because of the absence and imperfection of our national legislation. We need to bring our national legislation to international humanitarian and criminal law, which will give us the first opportunity to bring criminals to justice. To the victims and their relatives who suffered as a result of war crimes, crimes against humanity should be restored to justice. We need to give tools to law enforcement authorities so that they can properly qualify these crimes, investigate them, and bring those responsible to justice. We in the Human Rights Committee have received hundreds of letters of support from public organizations for this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, people are looking forward to him. I want to point out that the Committee on Law Enforcement has made a sufficiently balanced final edition. Therefore, Your Honor, we do not have the right to make a mistake today and we must support this bill. Please, colleagues, I'm asking you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, this is 104 revisions, Monastery, partially counted. And one right of confirmation, and we're voting on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, very briefly, one minute. We are facing trial in The Hague for international crimes committed during an international armed conflict. And that's where Russia will come with a pack of sentences that are already against our military personnel, our volunteers. And so far we have, thanks to our predecessors too, a list of criminal conduct -- no conviction, no colleagues, no one. And that's a disgrace! There is nothing to work on in this law. All the defenders are here. I have a letter from the UN Monitoring Mission on Human Rights, the only conclusion in this call, and we've been waiting for this conclusion with the support of this bill. The UN is behind this bill. All the terms are verified, everything's defined, everything's out, and it's really dozens of hours of work. Colleagues, there's no responsibility yet for the crimes committed at Donbassa. This must be done to ensure that those who have tortured, killed our military and peaceful citizens. Now it's a zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u255	It's okay. It's Let's go to the vote. I bet. Wait, I'll put you to a vote of 104. Partially counted, the author is a full count. Yeah? I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:26:03]] For-55 104. For 55. The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. What are you holding out your hand? To confirm 13 revisions, I remember. Heroceno. So 1-a or 13-a? 1 order, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u256	I'm shocked by what I just heard by manipulating. As a person involved in the release of hundreds of hostages, I personally handed over hundreds of scumbags who were convicted (including fighters, including representatives of the Russian Federation) to 11-15 years for participating in illegal formations. They were convicted of this criminal act. And to say that there is no responsibility today is not true. I agree with Mr. Monastery and Mrs. Jacoblewa that we must increase the criminal responsibility of everyone involved in war crimes, that is true. And there were different people among the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But once again I insist, colleagues, that this law also strikes the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Obviously, there can be no statute of limitations on war crimes, after rape, after the Boeing, after terrorism, after the torture of the Ukrainian military. We're in. "European Solidarity" is for. But, friends, you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, the order number one of the national deputy Heratchenko is counted by the committee. The author puts it on the stand. Can I have a name and vote, please? Please. Please vote. [[14:28:01]] For-138 Amendment number 13. Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u258	Dear colleagues! Criminals must be held accountable, and this is overweight. Those who tortured our boys, those who abused them, those who are now fighting, killing Ukrainians should be punished. But unfortunately, in this law today you are setting up a very serious bomb against the commanders of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. With great difficulty, we pulled out Sergeant Markiv, who was captured, detained abroad. Under this law, which you are now voting on, can detain his commanding officer, his commander of the battalion and the commander of the Nazgardiya. Read carefully the documents you bring to the hall! Why? Because there are good ideas here, and we're all for them. But destroying command principles in the army and in the Ukrainian commanders is unacceptable. Please don't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u259	I'm betting on the vote number 13. The committee is accounted for. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. Do I get it right? Please support and vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 13. I'm betting on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:30:06]] For 263 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. I'm betting on voting the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill (registration number 2689) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of international criminal and humanitarian law. Please support and vote. [[14:30:46.]] For 248 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Anna Constantine’s speedboat is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u260	Mr. Nekludov, did you put it in your pants or not? Yesterday, during my speech on land laws, Mr. Nekludov was very afraid of me and wrote an application to the D.B.I. By the way, he wrote it from "ministers of the people," because it includes "ministers of the people." [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll quote you, colleagues. "It should be pointed out that the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Political Party 'Serve of the People's Party' have been perceived as a real threat to our lives and health. The actions of Krakhod were expressed externally in the form of its unlawful influence on the mentality of the Ukrainian National Deputies during the session by means of its public message to us about the intention to deprive us, the national MPs of Ukraine of their actions, of our lives." I now understand why they shut down or continue to shut down the psych dispensers because there are really national MPs who need to be sent there. What can I say? Mr. Nekludov, you must be afraid of what I said about all of us being buried in Ukrainian soil. But you're probably not a patriot and you want to be buried abroad. I get it, well, here's the thing. You know, because I'm very worried about you, for your safety, for nothing to happen to you, I'll give you the talisman to protect. You will wear a T-shirt and always be under my protection. You see, you're wearing a T-shirt. And yet your eye is from the lesson, that it may be well with you always, and no one will entangle you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u261	Uncluded Vladen Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u262	Thank you, colleagues. I want to say in a reply that Mrs. Krakhod forgets that she has to act in accordance with article 19 of the second Constitution of Ukraine within and in a manner prescribed by law. She has no right, she has no right to threaten anyone with murder, including the people's deputies. She had forgotten that if the MPs did not vote, they would have to be buried, as she said. And she said, "Think." It's a crime she committed in the Supreme Council in a session hall. And the law is one for all. Scream, don't yell at me! He's the law, one for all. If it was done by anyone (or a woman or a man), he should answer. I wrote it down in my statement. And the fact that Mrs. Speedwalk is crossing all lines, I think we have to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u263	Let's go to. Yes, the Motovlover of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u264	Please bring in the order of the day Law 4107 on Replacement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u265	You can't raise the law. I take it you mean now, don't you? Change the order of business, right, daytime?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u266	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u267	Did I get you right? Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. Is there no objection? 4107, there. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. 3 revisions. Wait, don't scream. If I understand correctly, the 3 revisions "ES" are in. [[B in m in s a l in]] 400? Dear colleagues, wait. Dear colleagues, me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream, please. I mean, I get that there's a lot of law enforcement, so the question's off for now. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day - 5118. It is suggested that we consider this question in favour. [[B in m in s a l in]] 5118. It is suggested that we consider this question. We have to make a decision about it first. We need to make a decision on the application of the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session, which requires 226 votes. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:36:55]] For 297 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:37:18]] For 242 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u268	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! This bill, like the following 5118, 5119, is a formal bill on kraft brewery, and it is also a small brewery. But actually this bill isn't really about beer. It's an economics bill. This bill on tourism. This bill on image and brand state. We're talking about whether or not we've had the first opportunity to let the participants in the beer small market compete with other manufacturers all over the world for part of the fact that research by other companies by the age of 25 is going to be $500 billion. This is the previous estimate of the capitalization of the market for kraft beer in the world. And for today, we would like to allow Ukrainian brewers to become, in principle, worthy participants in these economic relations and to represent Ukrainian beer, which is no worse than anything else in the international market. Colleagues, kraft brewery is one of the most promising areas. The growth rate is 19.9 percent by 2025, according to Grand View Research. By comparison, the rate of growth in the dairy sector is only 2.5 percent from the 20th to the 27th. And if in 2019 the same dairy sector was estimated at $481 billion, then the brewing kraft sector by 2025 is estimated at $502.9 billion, as I said. No wonder that every day, I emphasize, there is a new Kraft private brewery in France. That's why we proposed this bill, which initially reduces the excise rate for kraft brewery by 50 percent from 2.78 bracelets to 1.34 bracelets per liter. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u269	The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Nikolayenko Andri Ivanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, as has already been pointed out by the head of the profiling committee and the author of this bill, this is an economic bill, and on our committee it has also been supported. We know that there were discussions about certain limits, this is going to be about the next bill. And I know that the authors, and these are the 50 deputies from different factions, from all the factions in the actual parliament, are willing to examine them so that they don't get the impression of large brewers and taxpayers. On the other hand, I want to confirm once again that you understand what this is about. It is said that those who produce less than 5 percent of beer in Ukraine in general pay more than 40 VAT from the industry, 46 percent from the employment tax, and in fact 17,000 people work in these small kraft breweries, which is 70 percent of those employed in the field. It's not about beer, it's actually about jobs in small and medium-sized businesses that were the most affected during this pandemic and the closure and all of these elbows. So we need to understand that excise is just one measure of support. And the next bill that we're going to consider, 5119, will be proposals on a number of other supporting factors for this area. Among other things, we consider it necessary to take off the license, as was done today in winemakers, for wholesale trade. And we're going to talk about this if we're going to take this completely into 5119. The committee voted in favour. Please support the second law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u271	Please sign in. Yes, it is. Write two in favour, two in opposition to acts by MPs and groups. Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u272	Good afternoon. Dmitri Kostuk, Zitomiršina. Please support a bill that will have a positive impact on the Ukrainian economy. Vote in favour and no long-term discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u273	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u274	Please pass the word to Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u275	Galina Ivanovna Vasilchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u276	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. You know, dear colleagues, we don't often consider bills in this session room that really help small and medium-sized businesses. These are the two bills that allow small businesses, Ukrainian producers to develop and create new jobs that are really necessary because almost a million Ukrainians have lost jobs in the last year. I'm going to give you a couple of figures that a small beer shop for 1 million beers gives jobs to 475 people, while a large one gives jobs to only 7 people. Asking them to support these bills, because at least for one area of small, medium-sized business, they create fair conditions and enable them to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u277	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u278	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u279	Again? Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, I would like to speak not at all, but specifically about the draft law. We know that today, in fact, there is no definition of small beer producers in the law of Ukraine. But you just said that you've never done anything to raise or give opportunities to extra small breweries that cook kraft beer. In 2016, this rule began to apply since 2017, the cost of the wholesale license for beer producers with production of up to 3,000 hectolitres per year has been reduced by more than 16 times: from 500,000 to 30,000 per year. What is now proposed in this law? In the definition of small brewers, make such an upper deck, the upper limit, the ceiling, it's going to apply to 200,000 hectolitres. In translation, it's one tank a day. 360 tanks per year of small beer brewery will be sold in Ukraine or outside Ukraine. Do you believe that? The largest country that produces beer most – Germany – has a ceiling for small brewers – 40,000 hectolitres, not 200,000. In the Czech Republic, 100,000 hectolitres, not 200,000. The Ministry of Finance has made great remarks on this issue. I think you and I on the committee have heard the answer from the brewers themselves. We have to change this ceiling, or we have to go in differentiated ways, like this in most countries. But do not make mistakes to really develop, not to lose, and to give new optimisation opportunities in general. In the first reading, we support, of course, this draft law, we have to work on the second reading. And in the next law, we're going to discuss the extra possibilities and the taxes that you've offered. Now we're talking about what a small brewery is. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u281	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u282	Please pass the word to Robert Horvath.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u283	Good day, fellow citizens of Ukraine, Ukrainian brewery and Ukrainian winemakers! Trust Group will support this bill for several reasons. First, a few years ago, I was the main initiator of a bill to revoke a license for small vines, then we simplified the production license for small vines. Now, if you ask the winegrowers if it worked, there's a confirmation that it's been working for three years now -- it's new jobs, it's taxes. Today, the license for kraft beer, the same 500,000, is unobservable for beer makers. Excise is much larger than EU directives recommend. As for the excise stamp for making table wines, please consider. Today, the value of producing the excise stamp to be glued and ordered in two months by the winegrower, tax is to be administered and the winegrower is to be counted in two months. So the value of this brand is 20 copies, the price of excise duty is 0.8 copies, comes to the budget 800,000 dollars, and the state spends 20 million dollars. Plus, our controlling authorities have the ability to "shock" a business that deals with taxpayers. I'm asking everyone to support this, we've done this, and in the last call, the Trust Group will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u284	Thank you. Let us proceed to the vote, please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending article 215 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the establishment of reduced excise duty rates on alcoholic beverages (beers) for small beer producers (registration number 5118). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:49:35]] For 284 Decision taken. The next question is the bill (registration number 5119). We need to decide on the ad hoc procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:50:04]] For 272 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:50:24]] For 241 Decision taken. No discussion? Discussed. It is essential that the committee speak. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u285	Colleagues, thank you so much for voting for the first draft of the Law, previous, 5118. This is a second project that actually provides comprehensive reform in this area, enabling Ukrainian brewers to compete on an equal footing with the world's producers. What is proposed in Bill 5119? We're increasing the marginal volume of beer production for small producers. As Mrs. Jujanina said, it's true, it's 3,000 now. But in fact, it's 66 times bigger in Europe, it's 200,000 hectolitres. And this information doesn't have to be searched for long, it's absolutely accessible, and it's basically public. We're canceling the license for wholesale beer for small producers because the license to trade is now half a million dollars, even for the smallest brewers, a colleague. To calculate the quantity per litre, they overpay even more for large breweries, and the absence of such a license will put them at the level of condition. Moreover, brewers are now required to undergo full certification every five years. Once introduced, the production license will be unlimited and certified, not according to the principle that the brewery itself is certified, but the production of equipment, lines. And this will allow quality control, without creating inconveniences for business. And the same applies, by the way, both wine and honey drinks. And what we're talking about here is that this forecast and these changes are going to speed up the growth rate of the kraft market. If they now make up 3 percent in Ukraine, it will accelerate to 10 percent per year. So we're actually going to achieve more or less of the European averages that, as I said today, are estimated to be between 15 and 19.9 percent of the growth in the sector per year. Today, there are, of course, our European neighbors with kraft beer champions. In addition, China, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand show an extraordinary pace. I don't see why it can't be Ukraine. Please support and vote, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u286	The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Nikolayenko Andri Ivanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u287	To shorten time, I think all the arguments were made, we heard from the authors, the committee almost unanimously supported the exclusion of literally a few deputies. But we've compromised that between the first and the second readings, the bill has to be finalized on, as has already been defined, the ranges of the boundary from the other. It harmonizes our legislation with European legislation. And within the framework of the European 46 Directive, it includes us in the European civilised market for this drink and solves the problem that Mr. Horvath said last time. So please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u288	Thank you. Please write down: two for, two for, or against, or anyone who wants to. Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u289	Colleagues, I also sincerely thank you for supporting the previous bill. And I'm asking you to support this bill as well. Because I absolutely agree with my colleagues Nataluha and Nikolaynka's words, it's an economics bill. But I would add that this is also a bill on Ukraine and on Ukraine's identity. Because to compete in Ukraine's beer market, which is actually 90 percent controlled by the world's giants, who are bringing in the technologies that are bringing out brandy, our Kraft beer factories are very hard, and they survive today, including during the pandemic. Because technology is them, because brands are them, they create these brands, they're already known to all the Ukrainian brands ("Cyprus", "Warvar", "True" and others). So today we have to take, take a step, give Ukraine a chance to identify itself in this area of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u290	Thank you. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u291	Galini Vasilchenko, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u292	Who? Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u293	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Like the previous bill, this bill supports a small Ukrainian producer. Reducing excise duty, introducing timeless licenses will enable entrepreneurs to direct savings to business development. And again, about the numbers. In general, tax cuts will allow the budget to receive an additional 215 million dollars. We clearly support and urge our colleagues to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u294	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u295	Thank you. I'm against beer, so I'm handing over the word to the national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u296	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u297	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that today our female colleagues are especially beautiful. You really are the leaders of national culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u298	You, too, Nestor Ivanovich, are very beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u299	I'll talk about the other half. Dear colleagues, we have upheld the previous law. It really applied to small producers. Under this law, we have questions, observations and even concerns, so we will refrain from voting on the second bill. If he is accepted in the first reading, we will take an active part in making our amendments and in seeing that the law is being improved. But today I would like to draw everyone's attention to what happened in this room. I am very sorry that there was a vote on the minister of health. And today the whole of Ukraine is shocked. Well, among the great professionals, I'm not afraid to speak now, to mention their names, Todorov, Yuri Polachenko, Komarovsky, have you not been able to find a more professional, worthy and, as they say, a clean letter from a man who has no responsibility, a direct responsibility for our being in the first places of death? You know, today's vote, God forbid, will come back to anyone who has supported this candidacy. I wish everyone health. And may the families of those who have died forgive those who have voted in disgrace today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u300	Dear colleagues, I think our colleagues are not only beautiful and intelligent, not just today, but I am sure that this has nothing to do with the Beer Act. Okay? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u301	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u302	I am now continuing the session for 15 minutes or before we conclude our consideration of this issue. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the author of draft laws. In fact, according to the European Economic Association Council Directives 83 and 84 (since 1992), it has been allowed to set the excise duty on beer up to 50 percent lower, from the basic rate for producers to 200,000 hectolitres per year. But we've already learned that no progressive country has defined ceiling restrictions like 200,000, all of which have made them smaller. So we can actually lower the threshold to the second reading and set a scale of taxes depending on the volume of production to avoid abuse and actually reduce these budget losses. But I'd like to ask you. But the government has already adopted a bill at its meeting that sets bets on beer, depending on the 100 percent alcohol content in it. So your draft law will not be able to go on living, because another rule will be adopted. That's the first question I'd like to ask you. Secondly, please tell me, do you know the value of kraft beer in Ukraine? From 56 to 450 dollars. And beer, if you call it mass consumption, is worth 30 bucks. So I have calculations on how to do the right thing so that the little brewery doesn't actually carry a lot of tax burden. But you need to approach everything, not populistally, but understanding the nature of the standards that you are proposing. We will also vote only on the first reading. Let us work together and consult with the government what you will do with excise taxes. I also point out that the cancellation of the wholesale license leads to local budgets being underexpenditured. It was all the money that went into the local budgets. So think and let the second reading do something more right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-20-m0.u304	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and spirit drinks, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, liquids used in electronic cigarettes and fuels, on the facilitation of economic activity from the production of beer, wine, fruit and vegetable wines, honey drinks (registration No. 5119). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. It's written on the board. [[15:02:03]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The plenary session is closed. I'll remind you that we'll see you again at 4:00.
