ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u1	In connection with the requirement of 154 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A list of questions is given to you. Are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[16:23:13]] Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies [[16:23:52]] There are 308 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we're going straight to Bill 5157, because the previous one was in a plenary session. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Priorities of the Reform of the Prosecutor's Office on Certain Aspects of the Transitional Regulations. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:24:47]] For 258. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u2	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Now, I'm going to say that this bill has no political decorations and tastes, it has no hints of intrigue, Spider-Man's, Iron Man's, and Rings. Bill 5157 does not aim to strengthen the power of the Attorney General or anyone else. It is intended to ensure the effective functioning of the prosecutor’s office, and so all law enforcement agencies, are legally able to resolve a number of problems in order to complete the reform of the prosecutor’s office. First of all, in order to hold a prosecutor's office, whether in the Attorney General's Office, in the district or district attorney's office, everyone has to be tested, including those who repeat themselves after the court's decision. We have to level everyone with the rights of prosecutors, because if we don't, some of us will have the advantage over others, and we won't assume that. Secondly, it is proposed to provide mechanisms for the completion of the selection and disciplinary conduct initiated by September 1st of this year. Thirdly, it is proposed that the Human Resources Commissions of the Attorney General's Office, the District Attorney's Office, which ensure that the Attorney's Office's certification is carried out continuously. Fourthly, it is proposed that the provisions of the Procurator's Act be reinstated in part of the formation of a body responsible for the disciplinary conduct of the CSD and that the Attorney-General be given the right to decide on the convening of the entire Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors and, if called upon, to give the Attorney-General or his first Deputy or Deputy General the right to open the entire Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors. This will enable the convening and holding of a nationwide conference of prosecutors, as well as the convening of a meeting of representatives of senior law institutions, and the appointment of members of the board of prosecutors of Ukraine, members of the CDC. If this is not done, there will be a collapse in the law enforcement system. Once again, this bill is not drafted by political or personal preferences, this bill is designed to ensure that the Public Prosecutor's Office works effectively to protect the rights of citizens of the state and society. So I sincerely ask you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u3	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u4	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Protection considered Bill 5157 at its meeting, recommends that the Supreme Council approve it as a basis. I want to say briefly, too, what this bill is about on the other side. It is necessary for those prosecutors who in one way or another are being reinstated in the Public Prosecutor's Office for reasons of unlawful dismissal to be allowed to enter the new office of the Attorney General under the conditions of certification. Because there is a situation at the moment that they are being reinstated, but they are dependent on the old state in the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, and they have no way to compete for new positions in the prosecutor's office. So it's primarily a bridge that's normal if there's a court decision. Secondly, the bill facilitates the creation of an up-to-date training and disciplinary commission of prosecutors, which must exist in order to bring responsibility, disciplinary responsibility, prosecutors. If we don't adopt this law, in September, prosecutors won't be able to be drawn to disciplinary responsibility. And I think that's the negative that we definitely have to correct with you. If there are any suggestions, remarks, I think we'll be ready to work on the committee for the second reading. For my part, I would like to support this bill, which is that it has also been supported by our and international partners, who have expressed their position as to what is true, they accept this bill conceptually and they support it as necessary for the continuation of the presidential reform of the prosecutor's office, which is currently going on. Thank you. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u5	Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Shapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich. Rudik?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u6	Please give it to Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u7	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u8	Dear colleagues, see what needs to be done to correct the problem? Make it first. On September 19th, we're adopting a good bill on first-hand measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and it doesn't take into account the problems that have already been discussed by the speakers. Think about it. The goal was to ensure that only those prosecutors and prosecutors who had passed the test could continue to work in the new system. To do that, they came up with a three-level verification system called another attestation. The first is 100 questions in 100 minutes. The second step is that if the candidates have gained more than 70 points, they are allowed to go to the second stage of the appraisal. And finally, the third stage is the interview, the so-called situational task. However, according to the committee’s chairman, those who are reinstated by decisions of the courts are usually the result of a illustration, since they have been released from the prosecutor’s office before the law comes into force, or otherwise, they are avoided. Why? Yes, because this law of September 19 does not provide for this! Well, how can we do this to make new changes six months later?? Of course, we will vote in favour, and we invite everyone to support this decision. It will provide an opportunity to take away conscious, intelligent, hopefully honest prosecutors who perform extremely important functions in our country, by the way, from the second bill that we will consider. The MP's Party for the Future votes in favour and urges a colleague to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u9	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u10	Please pass on the word to Osadchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u11	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u12	Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker, on September 19, 19th, this chamber, at its highest level, approved many laws, including the so-called grand reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Voice and Voice faction then very clearly warned that, boys and girls, the idea is good, but the biggest risk is that the freed prosecutors, who were going to release almost 2,000, are likely to go to court because they're law professionals, they're going to be offended, and they're likely to win these trials and be reinstated in the prosecutor's office. "What will you do then?"'I personally asked the Attorney General, at the time Mr. Ryabosapka. As always, this has happened before and often happens now, the majority said that "we'll figure it out, don't worry, everything will be fine." If you listened carefully to the presentation of my colleague Nekludov's bill, he said that if we didn't pass this law, the law enforcement system would be on the verge of a complete collapse. He's right, we've reformed to the point that now the Attorney General's Office, the entire prosecutor's system, hangs in the hair, can completely collapse. That's why we're forced to support this bill because we're not enemies of Ukraine, we're not enemies of Ukrainian institutions, and we want to strengthen Ukrainian institutions. That's why the Voice faction will vote in favour. But I would very much like you to draw any conclusions from the hasty decisions that you still make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u13	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u14	Please hand over Aresonkov Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u15	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u16	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, of course, when it comes to adopting or reviewing draft laws that deal with the work of law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, the Ukrainian Security Service and so forth, sometimes there is a case of, you know, a case of how these law enforcement agencies once acted in violation of some of the rights of citizens, not acting very transparently, sometimes not very professionally, and it seems to me that sometimes stops our colleagues in such a comprehensive analysis of the bill. I would very much like us today to stand in the position that everyone needs to do: the political parties, the individual factions, the entire Supreme Council -- everything to help ensure the completion of those reforms that have been initiated in law enforcement agencies, and to do everything necessary to ensure that they have all the essentials for their effective, quality work. Then you can be critical, then you can put on some kind of claim. Now, specifically, what concerns the two bills now that should allow full work to be done by the prosecutor's office, specifically the office, the district office and so on. My colleagues have already said, what happened was that there was some underdevelopment in the organization of competitive procedures, restoration by decision of the courts, and so on. The Board of Prosecutors, the prosecutorial authorities have to work fully. That's what this bill is all about. That's why the "Trust" MP group calls on everyone to support, vote in favour. And, of course, in the future, do everything we can to ensure that our law enforcement agencies have all the conditions for effective work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u17	The Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u18	Colleagues, I'd like to address my colleagues in the majority faction first, that the bill is primarily clarifying and supporting the reform of the President in relation to the prosecution's organs. Because a bad decision that we may not make under this bill will first strike the President of Ukraine and the majority faction. We need to adopt this bill in this session so that, from September, the prosecutor's office can continue to work fully. This bill is essential for the prosecution. So, colleagues, requests from me personally, and from the President, we've been communicating, supporting this bill in the first reading, and if there are any objections, thoughts, suggestions, we're working together on the second reading. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u19	Dear colleagues, two speeches with a motive, then we vote. Germany. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u20	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, you do not understand that, in view of the fact that the pseudoreform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office has been cleared by thousands of prosecutors, their illegal release, and the paralysis of the work of prosecutors. And now they've all come to realize that they, prosecutors' coworkers, are going to be reinstated at work, and to prevent them from being allowed, they came up with this bill. Colleagues, you see what's going on, you see that the essentially disfigured judicial system, the prosecutor's system. Where are we going, what is the state based on? Is this not our activity and the causal link between our irresponsibility? Stop supporting such a bill, it's criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u21	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Then we vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u22	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! In fact, this bill is needed, and the "Fatherland" faction will support it in the first reading. But the question is, do we have a date of completion of the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office? And that's what the legislature and Ukrainian society should know. It's very important for the Attorney General and her team to figure out how and how and who released those prosecutors that are being mass-renewed today and, sorry, what kind of budget is going to go to their payouts. On the other hand, will not those prosecutors who have been reinstated through the courts leave in their souls an insult to the system, to the state, to all society, that they, in defending the interests of the State, were then forced to go to court to defend their rights? This should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u23	Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the first-time measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office's Office on the specific aspects of the transitional provisions (Registration No. 5157). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:40:26]] For 253 Decision taken. The law was adopted as a basis, and the bill was adopted as a basis. The next draft is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of the selection and preparation of prosecutors (registration number 5158). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:41:05]] For 244 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, the prosecutor’s profession is not fully available at this time, and at the legislative level, there are insurers who make it impossible for graduates of higher law institutions to start their work in the prosecutor’s office and to gain a job as soon as they graduate. Yes, the Procurator's Act provides for one of the conditions of access to the job of a prosecutor -- the presence of two-way internships in law enforcement. As a result, successful young professionals, wishing and dreaming of working in the prosecutor’s office, face a created legislative obstacle, called a beaver dam, and are unable to enter the service of the prosecutor’s office, instead of having to work with other public authorities, businesses, private law firms, and so forth. Of course, in two years of such work, young people have gained experience, developed social connections, improved their lives, material status, and then lost sight of the prospects of keeping what they have gained, working hard, and starting to build their careers in the prosecutor’s office. And there are other problems, already within the public prosecutor's system: human hunger, professional deformation, undermining the procurator's reputation. So, in co-authorship with my colleagues, I would like to point out that from a variety of political forces, Bill 5158 has been registered, which has just solved the problems that have been identified and has established an effective legislative mechanism for the selection of prosecutors, which is to be applied since September 2021. The bill excludes the conditions for candidates to serve as a prosecutor for two years in the field of law, provides for the possibility of obtaining, directly in the Public Prosecutor's Office, the necessary work for the appointment of a prosecutor in the District Prosecutor's Office. The deadline is being reduced and the procedure for special training is being improved, and an intern-prosecutor institute is being established. Jaroslav Hashek once said, "The great age needs great people. There's no one in the world. humble heroes, not wrapped up in Napoleon's glory. But when we analyze it, their fame might cloud Alexander of Macedonia's glory." This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u25	Thank you. Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u26	Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting the first law on the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The bill also deals with the reform of the prosecutor's offices and allows young graduates of law schools after two months of training at the training centre of the prosecutor's office to become an intern prosecutor and for six months to show themselves, to show themselves, to understand that this call is the professional call of the prosecutor, and then to go through the competition commission and to obtain, to become directly, already embrace the role of prosecutor. This is about the district attorney’s office, the lowest type, where today’s largest shortage of personnel is between 20 and 45 percent in various district prosecutors. Colleagues, each and every one of you goes to the neighborhoods. I understand the tremendous pressure on prosecutors. The problem that was chosen in the 14th year with a two-year internship to be received by the prosecutor before taking office didn't justify itself. The people who finish colleges go to other professions for two years and then do not return to the prosecutor’s office. There is a big and big problem with that. All the branches of the country become and support the bill, including the majority in support of it. A law enforcement committee also reviewed the bill and recommended its adoption as a basis. And again, in order for us to somehow reduce the lack of prosecutors, I propose that we acquire young people really, who have graduated from an excellent college, get a legal education and have the opportunity to gain access to the procurator's profession. Including this bill, our partners, who sent out letters of approval, also support it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u27	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? It doesn't, does it? We're voting, aren't we? Thank you. Dear colleagues, then with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u28	I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. Is that how we vote or insist on speaking? Colleagues! Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u29	Please pass the word to Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u30	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u31	Dear colleagues! Thank you very much, Mr. Fedienka. Sasha, thank you very much. Once again, I would like to ask you to support this bill, because it will open the way to the prosecutor's offices of young, promising, inspired, full force that can build the authority of the prosecutor's office and build the glory of Ukraine. Because. And as it's been two years, they've been getting some internships, some experience, and they don't want to go and try their forces in the prosecutor's office anymore. And I think it's youth, that brightness, that enthusiasm, that enthusiasm, that it's not enough for the prosecutor's office right now to work more effectively. That young man, they say, is perfectionism, and I think he'll add both brightness and efficiency to the activities of the prosecutor's office. So I ask you very much to support this bill and to give the young to the prosecutor's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u32	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u33	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we seem to support all the reforms: anti-corruption bodies, prosecutorial reforms. But people say that on the street: turning prosecutors into prosecutors is just time to lose. Please tell me that in that year, 120 criminal drug trafficking operations were violated in Lugansk, mining, green forest, and not incinerated, 40 percent of Lugani forest burned. After the fires, after the governor of the military and civilian administration burned down the Lugansk region, he killed 16 people, his name is Hayday. So, please, at the office, give that name some attention and immediately. You don't have to take it away, you have to plant it for murder, you have to steal billions of dollars. If only he had sat in the NCREKP to lower the tariffs for the luganians and the daughters, let him sit in order for the water to appear in the people in the taps, you bastard! And once again, I'm addressing Attorney General Venedictov: pay attention to prosecutors who don't investigate criminal prosecutions based on the findings of the interim commission of inquiry investigating fires, and there has already been a speech, the Secretary of the High Commission said that there has not been an extermination headquarters in the Luhansk region, and there has been a special arson and murder. 800 homes burned today, homeless people running around the Luhansk region. The matter must be investigated immediately and brought to a logical conclusion. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u34	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u35	I give the word to Osadchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u36	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u37	Dear colleagues, the previous discussion has clearly shown that we have huge problems with the prosecution system. Sadly, all of this is the result of hasty and unprepared decisions. This bill, which we are currently discussing, has perhaps a good idea, because the experience, any legal work before joining the Public Prosecutor's Office, is not a guarantee of the quality of people's involvement in the law enforcement system. But in the meantime, we see a huge amount of risk in this bill. We think there's a lot of work to be done here. So just like all previous cases concerning these bills, we're counting heavily on it to be systematically developed by the second reading, and all the risks that are obviously there that we've been stressing in the committee discussion will be taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u38	Germany. And let's go to the vote. From the motives of Germany, Rudik. Wait. Germany, Rudik. Identify yourself, please. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u39	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the 30s when the Committees of Poverty came to power instead of local self-government. They destroyed power and led Ukraine to the Netherlands. So just so you know, what you're doing right now, and what you're bringing out today, what is cleaning up professionals and access to co-workers of the Young Prosecutor's Office, I want to tell you, read article 131 with badge 1, which should be done by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It's an accusation, it's a pretrial investigation and a representation of the interests of the courts. Who can do this after two months of classes? Do you want to embarrass this to bring in the cause of the Pacific? That's not gonna work! If that's what you want, take a look at your role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u40	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u41	Dear colleagues, while giving young professionals with higher legal education the opportunity to work in the prosecutor’s office, let us not take this opportunity away from professionals who have a great deal of experience working in the prosecutor’s office. Because there's a rule in this bill that allows an intern who's been interned for two months to be in equal legal status with the D.A.'s attorney. Think about it, how? You don't understand what important functions the prosecution is carrying? In the Soviet times that we now mention with shame, there was a standard to be maintained. Only the experience, the profession, the work in this area can ensure a fair legal review of the problems of the public prosecutor. Do not vote in favour of this decision, please. Work hard, and then this bill can work for the benefit of young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u42	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u43	Thank you. Please give me the word "Alexandra Ustinovy."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u44	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u45	Thank you very much. Colleagues, this bill is dangerous, and I'll explain why. First of all, this bill creates a so-called prosecutorial caste. I mean, right after you graduate from the academy, you get to work at the D.A.'s office, I'm sorry, the law academy. You get to work at the D.A.'s office and become a full-blown prosecutor, who writes suspicions, opinions about searches, the N.S.R.D.S.S.A. -- infamous search-and-research actions -- wiretaps, screwdrivers, etc. etc. A person who was still a student two months ago will write down your suspicions. You can't let that happen. And secondly, people will not be coming to work with clues or lawyers right now, and this is going to be a closed caste that's going to get into the ranks of prosecutors right away from the academy. So we're not going to have any fresh people and fresh heads at all. So this bill needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u46	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of the selection and preparation of prosecutors (registration number 5158). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:55:58]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of draft Law registration number 5158. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:56:30.]] For 230 Decision taken. Next question is the order of the day 5058. Will anyone insist on the papers? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for Enforcement (registration No. 5058). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:57:19]] For 305 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the draft Act amending article 45 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (registration number 4375). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:57:51]] For 247 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Interior Heratchenko Anton Juriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u47	Dear National Deputies! Dear representatives of the media! Dear Ukrainian people! This bill is very small. The bill proposes to expand the use of electric shockers, tasers for the National Police. This law is not required for the police. This law is necessary for all Ukrainian citizens, because unfortunately today because of the imperfections of legislation, we cannot use electric shockers to the full in order to stop those who are hurting society. Regrettably, when assaults on police or malicious insubordination with assaults on police officers are carried out, firearms are used. For example, in 2016, in the Hmelnicki district, when a mentally ill citizen in Hmelnicki was detained in Hmelnicki, who inflicted bodily harm on other citizens by the bay and who resisted police officers, did not meet the repeated demands for an end to the crime, firearms were used. Six shots, man down. I've got a lot of examples here where cops, without the legal possibility of using an electric shocker, a taser, were forced to shoot with firearms, and people got serious bodily injuries. But that's not right. So we're asking you to give us permission to use an electric shocker while apprehending a person who's resisting or trying to escape from custody, while apprehending a person who's committed administrative misconduct and who's doing physical opposition to a police officer, it's precisely physical opposition. We ask you to understand that in more than 100 countries of the world, shockers are used, with permission from the Ministry of Health. They are needed to protect the life and health of every citizen who, at some point in time, uses drugs or psychotropic drugs, starts throwing himself at the police. And we also need to protect the police by giving them this opportunity. It's all over the world. Let's be really a European country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u48	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u49	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Protection at its meeting had considered Bill No. 4375, and a number of comments had been made on the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies. In fact, the committee’s decision was to return Bill 4375 to the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work. This bill deals with the use of shockers, they're actually being used by the police today. This is about increased use to reduce the use of firearms for the benefit of electric shockers. In this case, it is a practice that is applied in over 100 countries around the world. There are certainly questions raised by members of the committee when and what grounds should be used either to repel an attack on a police officer or to extend it to administrative offences. It can all be a question of second reading, and these questions can also be improved. Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u50	Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's going to work, wait, don't make any noise, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't shout. I'm asking who's insisting on this. One faction. Two factions. Well, then sign up for the factions. Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u51	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Respectful colleagues certainly need to organize the situation today with the police, including police reform. But this must be done to benefit the people, not the police who come to the careers where the sand is looted in the Luhansk region, where two national deputies, Alexander Sukhov, Sergey the Great, on the approach of Alexander Lukashev, are surrounded by national MPs and sent machine guns to get out of their careers because they are not allowed to rob. And that's in Luhansk, where the war is going. Also with coal mines. You also need shockers, first of all, at the hands of those officials who put Ukraine’s budget into the crusts of their ratites. "There's no government money -- there's taxpayers' money," said Margaret Thatcher. And today, Anton Yuriovich, I will certainly have support in the hall to sort things out. But let the officials know that the police should go in and shock those officials who are robbing the Ukrainian people today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u52	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u53	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain to you what you're now offered to vote for. Even though I didn't understand what the committee head said: are we voting in favour of rejecting the bill and sending it to work? And that was the committee's decision. We have for the first time since the committee decided to send a draft bill into the hall, for the first time in a year and a half. There has never been such a crime! Let me explain why. Because shockers have already been purchased for 33 million, and now they need to be looked at somewhere. Let me tell you one more thing that you probably don't know what the National Police aren't telling you. Now there's shockers, and table guns, and you can still use them in an assault on a police officer. But you know what they want to use it for? I'm in the admin department. You can imagine, if a person exceeds speed, for example, or any kind of PRI, they stop it, and if, God forbid, a policeman doesn't like how a person behaves, you can use a shocker against him. And I'll tell you, we have 64 percent of Ukrainians with cardiovascular disease. For them, such an application can become lethal. So now that we're being told about the humanity for the use of shockers, we're giving the police the opportunity to kill people even when they're under administrative arrest. You know how it's going to be used in mass media, how it's going to be used by the police, to whom, I'm sorry, there's very little confidence now, at the end of any car? Now you have to stand by people and not allow them to use shockers right now not to protect the police, as they tell us, but to use it against people who violate the Road Traffic Rules, or any other person who has administrative misconduct. Be Members of the People! We're now spitting on the committee's decision, where most of us voted to send this bill for work, and they're trying to push all of you to accept it on the first reading, because 33 million have already spent money on these shockers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u54	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u55	Please hand over Arjev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u56	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u57	I'm offering to keep my hands on the shockers. I suggest, let's, in the second reading, amend the Administrative Code and introduce corporal punishment, and also buy nudes for every policeman. Well, let's be a jury of voters, because, besides the shockers, there's still a lot of stuff left on their ass. Excuse me, what are we talking about? Then, when the police are actually doing what's "breaking" restaurants where there are secret meetings today, when police are "breathing" illegal mining today, when police are "breathing" for today and using their anti-activists to protect them from illegal blockage, let's give them more shocks to be electrocuted today. Green Energy is electricity, we have a new option. So, if you'll excuse me, we have today, when we're talking about what's going on in the police mess, today we have Reef in prison, Andrew Antonenko, and those activists who are trying to protest his detention in prison, illegally, without any argument, are being thrown away today with sticks. Then let's have some more shockers, ladies. Shocker is what's happening to this society right now. So let's stop doing stupid things, and we'll still adopt the laws that society needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u58	Bragar Evgeny Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u59	Please pass the word to Kunick Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u60	Colleagues, this is a disgrace, because most of the National Deputies of the Professional Committee have rejected this bill, turned it back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and now we're being asked to vote here in the Supreme Council, and they say it's a good thing when the police are able to use so-called shockers for administrative offences. I understand. I'm very sorry that Mr. Heratchenko is here, too, he's already bought these shockers and wants to use them, but it's not in time at all. Return this bill, please, Mr. Heratchenko, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we will consider it on the committee, and then the Supreme Council will be able to vote and determine whether to support it or not. Please don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u61	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u62	Dear colleagues, what we've heard from Heratchenk, can you imagine how the idea of "burkuts" was formed? For what? For young people. And what's ready now. Mr. Heratschenko, didn't he accompany Tornado and Shahtarsk, who were disbanded, followed by 56 murders? So where are we going? Who offers us such bills? It's an anti-profession committee, but it's being taken to the hall. I'll tell you, it's the crown of a police state. This is what this is about: that we are already with you thieves, that you may understand. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs is running it the way we need it. And tomorrow they'll bring them on helicopters, on helicopters they bought 55, they'll bring these shockers. Do you understand? And this is on our account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u63	What's the matter? Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Head. I ask you to pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u65	Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a new word from journalists today. They said that some of the things that go through in the Supreme Council, you could call "the German" is something that comes out of a joke. So this bill is also full of Armenians, and I suggest you all press the red button and not vote in favour of this bill. Nobody wants to live in a police state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u67	Let's go to the vote, take your seats, please. First, a committee proposal is made. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to amend the draft Act amending article 45 of the Ukrainian National Police Act (registration No. 4375). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:13:10]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I'll bet now on the basis, then on my way back. I'll put it all together, all positions as usual, Alexandre Yuriovno. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of draft Law registration number 4375. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:13:51]] For-126 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a motion for a motion for a committee to prepare for the re-reading of Law 4375. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:14:20]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The bill has been rejected, I'm sorry. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u68	Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! In this pre - Easter week, when all people prepare spiritually for the festival, they prepare their homes for the festivals, as well as the newly created communities, they want to do the job of making peace and order. But not all succeed because someone in the event of decentralization lacks funds. So it was that at the beginning of decentralization a fair reverse was introduced. It's a good idea: taking money from rich communities and giving money to the newly created poorer communities to enable them to develop. But there's a "but." Today, in 2021, the calculation of the cost of this reverse grant, where it was collected, subtracted, takes place at the rate of 2019 - when local budgets were actually filling, the year when the economy was growing, the year when there was no pandemic, when there was no pressure on the FOPs, and then the local budgets were actually filled. Unfortunately, though, during the past 2020 pandemic, because of pressure on FOPs and other things, budgets, such as in Lviv, have received several million dollars each and worse from the budget of the Lviv district center, which received almost 650 million dollars last year. Instead, the automatic reverse grant returned nearly 700 million dollars to the state budget. Even worse this year. Because if you don't intervene, for example, the newly created Yavorian Territorial Society this year will be underestimating almost 40 million to the planned budget for the year, and the city of Lviv will be underestimating almost 450 million to their planned targets. At the same time, the Yávorów community will automatically budget 5 million dollars, and the Levites will have to pay almost 700 million dollars in taxes. So today, I am asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine to restore this fairness of decentralization and this year, thanks to the State budget subsidies for socio-economic development, to enable the development of new communities in Lviv, and the new Lviv community, to add over a million dollars to almost every expenditure, amounting to 800 million dollars of government subsidies, to enable them to develop their communities, to create prosperity and to do good for all our communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u69	Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement and other laws on improving the system of public procurement complaints (registration number 5309). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'd like you to support that. Wait. Please support and vote. [[17:18:31]] For 251 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:18:50]] For 232 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Podlas Roxolana Andriyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u70	Dear colleagues, good evening! Bill 5309 is a project that strengthens the Antimonopoly Committee and allows it to focus on its main task: demonopolization and the fight against distortions of competition law. In 2020, the Antimonopoly Committee received 12,000 tenders in public procurement, 122 percent more than in 2017. Very often, complaints about tenders received by the Antimonopoly Committee are a common tender trolling. Trolls want to benefit from the winner of the tender or to force the state to give orders not to those who deliver better and cheaper goods, but to those who block complaints about the conclusion of the tender. Instead of focusing all efforts on research and the fight against distortions of competition law, the State-authorized Antimonopoly Committee today is forced to deal with thousands of tenders that often have a very limited relationship with the protection of the rights of real entrepreneurs. And recently, in this room, you and I passed a bill, then another 3132, which is about reforming the prosecution body. This law created the positions of special authorized public procurement complaints in the structure of the Antimonopoly Committee. And 5309 is a bill that is complete up to 3132. He foresees changes that are necessary for the full start of the work of the new authorized ones because it is 5309 that determines the order in which public procurement complaints are handled. And it's needed to finally dismantle the Antimonopoly Committee and give it a normal job. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u71	Dear colleagues, would you please tell me who's going to insist on this? We can put it to a vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement and other laws on the improvement of the public procurement system (registration number 5309). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:22:08]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Tourism Act and some other legislative acts on basic principles for tourism (4162, 4162-1). Discussing? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then it is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:22:54]] For 242 Decision taken. The country’s national deputy, Nalotov Dmitry Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u72	Good afternoon! There are things that go with us through generations: this is our history, our nature, our folk contemplation, our culture, our national cuisine, our cities, and most importantly, we ourselves, Ukrainians, our nation. We are interesting to each other as well as to other countries. Tourism is not just about the economy and the international flows of money that can reach up to 30 percent of GDP, create jobs and restore life in complex regions, tourism, it's about patriotism, it's about love for its history, it's about hospitality. We're interesting, so they're coming to see us, and they can come in even more. We worked on the law for over a year, studied international practices, talked to experts and associations, and considered Ukrainian realities. He is now ready for acceptance in the first reading. In the new draft law, priority for the development of internal and exit tourism is changing approaches to the development strategy of the sector. Now it's an analytic supported by project management, the main thing is resources. We provide a system of interaction between the state and tourism subjects, introducing a single tourist register, updating the financial security system for tour operators, and categorizing hotels leads to world practice. Now we have our first victories in the field: you and I have reduced VAT to 7 percent, we have set a record budget for the development of tourism potential during independence. Now, as always, in Parliament someone will say that the law cannot be passed, that everything will stop. I'm just going to remind you that our 1995 law, and there's almost everything that's possible, it's out of date and it's not working. Instead, I invite everyone to join the work of our Turbasa interfractional association and join the active programs in your regions. Please support our draft Law 4162 in the first reading. Thank you. Travel through Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u73	The National Deputy of Ukraine Klimenko, Julia Leonidivna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u74	Dear colleagues, this is Clean Thursday, so I have two news for you: one is beautiful, one is good, the other is bad. The first good news is that this is one of the few bills for small and medium-sized businesses that has been being considered in this room for the past year and a half. Sadly, laws and bills for oligarchs and big business are largely considered. This is the only positive news in this bill. I mean the basic bill. The tourism market in Ukraine is one of the largest sectors, but one of the most undervalued sectors. It makes up 8 to 10 percent of our economy. It has 600,000 jobs at least. One job in tourism creates 50 jobs in adjacent fields. That's what we need to develop with you. What do we see instead? The main bill, and why, in fact, did I submit my alternative bill, what is the main problem? It's that the bill that we're being offered is the main and supported by the committee that actually narrows down and reduces, and it's going to destroy the tourism market in Ukraine. He forces guides — physical persons, people who work as historians at night and fake guides on weekends — to register as FOPs. He's forcing a grandmother who gives up her house and does green tourism to register as a limited liability society. He's forcing everyone to register according to incomprehensible rules, and for that, there's some kind of state-owned enterprise that's going to own this register. We understand what ends up in such registers and outputs. He forgot, this bill, in general, to exclude the chapter "Crime" and also to place the aggressor country's insurers, who can't be the founder or beneficiary of operators and tourist agencies in Ukraine. He's actually making a strange banking scheme, greatly increasing the cost of operators and tourists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u75	The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Kravchuk Eugenia Mikhailnovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u76	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy has considered the draft Act amending the Tourism Act and some other legislative acts on the basic principles of tourism development (number 4162) and amending the Tourism Act and some other legislative acts on economic incentives for tourism (4162-1). The bill proposes a new edition of the Ukrainian Tourism Act, as well as amendments to a number of laws. In particular, it is envisaged to include in tourism subjects the activities of natural entrepreneurs, to update the terminology of national legislation to harmonize it with European legislation, to define types of tourism, to classify travel, to type travel packages. The introduction of Bill 4162 into the Ukrainian Tourism Act of a new chapter on "Development of Tourism", which creates a new mechanism for State strategic planning in the area of tourism. The creation of a single tourist register and an electronic portal with information on tourism subjects Replacing the licensing of tourism activities to a notification of registration or declaration. The introduction of such a type of financial security as insurance. The introduction of the concept of tourism escort experts and the introduction of information on such experts into the electronic system with information on tourism subjects. In the light of the discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Ukrainian Registration Act No. 4162, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the individual constructive provisions of the alternative bill 4162-1. Bill 4162-1 is to be rejected in consideration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u77	Thank you, Eugene Mikhailna. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, and no, for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u78	Vote? I'll bet on it. Are you kidding me or what? One man asked you, another. Colleagues! Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u79	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u80	Galina Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u81	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Clearly, the real Tourism Act needs work, because it's way out of date. But I'm surprised that we're talking about tourism in the session room right now, and we're looking at changes before that legislation, when the state is in no way helping this area in the last year, which in turn has been the most affected in times of pandemics and coronation. Moreover, Kabmin, in particular the Ministry of Economics, was able to even deprive them of the ability to receive the 8,000 dollars of aid because they had excluded the corresponding QUEDAs from the hospitality sphere and thereby further damaged the tourism sector. It is surprising to me that, until now, the tax system has unsanctioned the payment of a single tax at a time when the relevant entrepreneurs have been exempt from such a payment. And while I'm working in the district, I have a lot of communication with the entrepreneurs of Lviv, Stry, Drodobic, Rabbit, they're all yelling at what's going on, and when the state finally starts thinking about small, medium-sized businesses. We will not vote in favour of this bill, because we have our own alternative, which is significantly better and regulates the relevant legislation, and it really does it for the development of the tourism sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u82	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Please. Princey. Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u83	Thank you. "European Solidarity" immediately proposed both bills, which were presented by a colleague from Voice and a colleague from the People's Servant, to send for further work, because there are valid thoughts there, and there, and there are shortcomings. But they didn't listen to us, unfortunately. The thing is, we don't really need to change the law in force, but we need to adopt a new law. And the GNEU is talking about it. In this same bill, basically, there's a lot of colossal norms. For example, the project does not solve a problem that is relevant, that is, does not limit the responsibility of the tour operator and the tourist operator to tourism. It does not conform to the standards of the Ukrainian CDC, according to which the person who has breached the obligation is responsible for the existence of his guilt, intention, or negligence. This bill abolishes the licensing of tourism activities. But at the same time, it seems illogical to cancel such a responsibility, since, as you know, many dangerous events may occur during tourism. According to the project, a tour operator’s manager may not be a person who has an unrepentant trial in a prescribed legal order for tourism crimes. But there is no crime in the field of tourism that describes the law. The law proposes to establish the obligation of tourist insurance, but it also excludes the Insurance Act from the list of compulsory insurance types such as the liability of tourism operators for damage, life, or health of the tourist. These proposed changes do not comply with the Insurance Act, according to which all types of insurance introduced by Ukraine's laws are to be incorporated into this basic law. And it is forbidden to carry out types of insurance that are not provided for by this law. It's suggested that the internet defence system operator is responsible for posting, publishing information that is unreliable, but what is the responsibility, its mechanisms are not prescribed. There are many questions here in the local authorities, for in some cases they are given responsibilities beyond their control.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u84	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Francis Igor Pavlovich, faction of "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u85	Dear colleagues, we have two laws on tourism: one -- big, the other after that will be small, so intermediate, until the second reading. You know, if we remember that the bill, the Tourism Act, which now has the entire tourist sector of our country since 95, and during that time the procedural codes have been adopted, the Civil Code has been amended, there have been a bunch of changes to the Consumer Rights Act, which are also consumers of tourism services, this law, which is neither time nor human needs nor the needs of market operators. I ask you to support the bill on which I emphasized the committee, with a view to having the right thoughts adopted by the committee, considered and supported by the Council. Believe me, as of today, hotels, various tourist agencies, tourist operators need to change their order of work. So how can we not do this? We all use these services, and we all want them to be quality. Support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u86	The word is given to Father Taras Ivanovich, "The Party for the Future." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u87	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Konstankevitch Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u88	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u89	Dear Society, the Group "For the Future" will support Bill 4162 because it is a bill that can actually address the development of the tourism sector. We believe that this bill is very relevant because the tourism sector in Ukraine is affected by the coronavirus epidemic. This bill still needs to be adopted because we are now expecting a tourist season, and we hope that by summer we will be able to use the right money that we have here, we will be able to help develop the domestic tourism sector. Another important factor is why we support this bill. It has been worked on by large groups of steakholders who have offered their interesting and important proposals, and these standards are already in this bill. This bill is complex, systematic. Of course, there may be certain nuances, shortcomings, but we hope that before the second reading, the working group will take into account and correct these shortcomings that are in the text. So I would like everyone to support in the first reading of Bill 4162, as proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u90	Thank you. Alona's starch, please. Anyone else want to speak? Chess, of course. Who else? Nobody else. Please, Mrs. Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u91	Alona's Scrum, the Fatherland faction and the proud member of the Turbasa Interfractional Union, to which all of you colleagues are invited. You know, the world tourism market for the pandemic was over $1.6 trillion. It was actually the biggest market in the world. And we almost didn't have part of this pie, in Ukraine there was almost no, very little part of it was tourists, and most of it was tourists from the Russian Federation and Belarusians, who were often not tourists, but they came here either in family or business. To get a piece of this pie, it has to be the support of the Supreme Council, tax support, support to Kabmin. Is this bill enough, briefly? Of course not. Is he perfect? Of course, he cannot be perfect. Does he do the right thing about tourist insurance, about local trust funds for tourism? Yes. But in fact we have to introduce, colleagues, tax benefits. Because we're competing with countries that have huge loan vacations for the tourist business that exempt them from VAT. Poland has the lowest tax rate in the EU. Tax benefits should be the next step. That's what we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u92	Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u93	Of course, Ruslan Petrovich, I invite you to visit the Lugansk region. Of course, this is Shahov talking about Donetsk. Lugansk region again. Please, I invite all your colleagues, we'll meet you with bread, salt, salt, salt, people in the living room. And please take the road from Kiev and right through Kupyansk, where in Kharkiv region, Julia Svetlica made the roads as governor. And when we enter the Lugansk region (Troyické, Swatové, Bilokurakine, Milovsky, Novopskovsky district, Bilovodsk district), believe me, there is an apocalypse. Four of the apocalyptics were invited by power: famine, cold, death, pandemic! This is what tourists in the Luhansk region can see today, as well as war. Please pay attention to Donbas. And attract tourists, there's something to see: both tericons and war.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u94	All those who desire no more. Dear colleagues, I will then ask the national deputies to prepare for the vote. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u95	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposal for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act and some other legislative acts on the basic principles of tourism development (registration No. 4162). Ready to vote. Please support and vote. [[17:41:04]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of agenda 2673. Is someone going to insist on the papers? Are you insisting on the papers? Who else but? Eutushka? I mean, Klimenko, Evtushek, do I understand? 7 rows. Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u96	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to say that these were considered by the committee and the subcommittee without the right-holders. No or no invitation to review has been sent. Thus, even protecting and obtaining why these amendments were not accepted was not possible. So I would like to ask the author exactly why my amendment number 7 was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u97	Amendment No. 7 contravenes article 116 of the WIA Rules and contravenes the subject matter of the bill. The proposed changes are point-blank and do not comply with other provisions of the Ukrainian Tourism Act. The committee's been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u98	I'm betting on the vote number 7 of the People's Deputy Klimenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[17:42:51]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Two minutes of Eutushka instead of the right. And we don't vote for it, right? Two minutes, Sergio Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u99	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I have 9 rights, but I'd like to pay attention to 15th and 16th revisions, although the law, the bill is called "The Tourism," it's about classification in these hotel regulations. I would like to remind you that Ukrainian citizens also did not grant a session hall without a referendum, without their response, to grant permission for the introduction of a gaming business in Ukraine. And that's why I made it clear in these two guidelines that it is the Cabinet of Ministers that has, in world practice or practice, a qualification for the granting of hotel status to determine a program to determine the status of a particular hotel. Otherwise, we simply, in such a law, allow low-quality hotels with low-service services to establish their starryness through some incomprehensible bodies, as it were, their qualifications and to place "one-armed thugs" or casinos there. So obviously, I'd like the committee head to explain clearly why we're rejecting these two key corrections, which are about giving the Cabinet of Ministers the right to set up classifications for those hotels that provide quality, in principle, services. And why did the committee not respect such an initiative so that we might be able even through the government, because of the governmental executive branch of authority, to keep in check the classification that would be given to hotels in Ukraine? Please give the committee head an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u100	The law has nothing to do with the gambling process. Licenses are issued by the Gambling and Lottery Board. FOP can't get a license. The categorization is done according to a separate procedure. It is now being implemented by the State Agency for Tourism Development on specific criteria. And in Law 4162, as of today, there is a mechanism in place that leads to the categorization of hotels into modern international standards, just what you say. So these adjustments, they don't have anything to do with gambling. And by this law, we simply extend the circle of subjects and allow the FOPs to file documents and to be categorized at their hotels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u101	Thank you. Next line is number 9, Klimenko. Julia Leonidevna, will you insist on all the papers? Or maybe two minutes and we'll move on? Thank you. Please turn on 2 minutes of Juliet Leonidni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u102	Colleagues, just because everyone wants to go home. I see few, few willing to hear about tourism. And I remind you that tourism accounts for 8-10 percent of Ukraine's economy. This is the size of the chemical industry. And when you talk about localization, support for local manufacturers, factories and steamboats, here's your money, under your feet. So please respect the tourism sector and do not consider such important bills on the last day, at the last moment before the holidays. I think that the tourism market deserves more respect, and that it will be considered in detail, and that it will be involved in the discussion of all the laws. What I'm saying. As the first bill we have just considered, the second is not in line with European standards and the European classification, it violates the EU Directive, it contradicts the Association Agreement with the European Union. The categorization is also a very complex procedure, and we understand that we are talking to you right now, not about the tourism market, but about what hotel the casino is sitting in and how the casino market will develop. Because now we're talking about what we're categorizing under a table, we're not understanding procedures, and now we have a category, in fact, if you look at many years before that, who gets categorization and what hotels get five stars, you'll realize that it's actually the Mafia and the boxers sometimes. So I ask you to be responsible. And at the end of my talk, I want to say, you can't adopt two laws that contradict each other. If we're adopting a large, basic bill 4162, why are we looking at and taking the time of the hall and of the deputies and of the Ukrainian citizens to change the two formulations if we have all the formulations that we've put together in a completely different way, basically a bill that we've just voted on? Please tell me when it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u103	Thank you. Princess Nikola Leonidovich, you have two revisions, maybe a minute and. You're going to insist on both? 42 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u104	Thank you. I'm not going to be speaking for long, actually. While we were looking at this bill, we were preparing for a second reading, we took on the validity of another Law 768-IX, according to which the category of the hotel is set once every five years. My editorial suggests that the subject be asked to change the category more often, because if a person there made a three - star hotel and improved the conditions and wanted to make a four - star hotel faster than in five years so that he could have the opportunity. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u105	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u106	The edit is partially counted as 4ths.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u107	It's rejected by you, it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u108	The number of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u109	42nd. I'm betting on the vote number 42 of the People's Deputy of the Prince. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:49:34]] For 253 Decision taken. Next line 52, Princess. It's an extreme readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u110	Thank you. Thank you for your support, colleagues. In the event of its adoption, the law immediately extends the entire regulation of hotel services, including to natural persons entrepreneurs, who are not now the subject of the provision of hotel services. If the law is adopted, the natural persons who are entrepreneurs will be deprived of the right to provide services until a category of hotels is established, since it is prohibited to provide such services without a certificate. This is in the last paragraph of article 19 of the Tourism Act. In order not to do so, it is proposed to establish a transitional period of one year, during which natural persons entrepreneurs who intend to provide hotel services could receive appropriate evidence of the assignment of categories. It's an amendment for people who could have worked for at least a year to get these testimonies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u111	I'm betting on a vote of 52, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:50:48]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Act on Tourism (Registration No. 2673). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:51:33]] For 256 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending chapter III of the Act "On Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine" and the Act "On the Development of Aircraft Building Industry" on the Support of Aircraft Buildings" on the continuation of the granting of a transitional period to Ukrainian airlines for the use of domestic aircraft (registration No. 5301). God bless the author who invented the name. Let's thank Andrea. [[Applause]] We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[17:52:46]] For the 250. Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:53:09]] For 247 Discussion? There's an offer, Nina Petrovna. Then let's do it. Reporter of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Motovilovitz Andri Viktorovich. Three factions are requested for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u112	Friends, what's this law about? It's a tourism law, it's a development law between our cities, it's about travel, it's about business. I really want citizens from all over the world and Ukrainians to come to Ukrainian airports in my country on Ukrainian planes. But unfortunately, right now we can't provide that with Ukrainian planes, there are airplanes that are already being used. And this is the law that we're continuing to lynch these planes for four years. I ask you all to uphold this law in the first reading. I want the committee's decision right away. The Committee of the Supreme Council recommends that the Committee of the Supreme Council should adopt, on a basis, the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy in preparing for the second reading, to finalize the prescribed law in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for amending the text proposed. With regard to the title of the bill, in an editorial form corresponding to the content of the law, implementing the purpose of the bill, by adding 21 items of the Customs Code of Ukraine's Final and Transitional Provisions to the new paragraph 4, which states that, temporarily, by 31 December 2021, they may be placed in a temporary regime of temporary importation under the conditions of full exemption from customs duties and without ensuring payment of customs duties provided for in Chapter X of the Customs Code of Ukraine, aircraft with an empty equipment of more than 10,000 kilograms, but not more than 30 kg and with a maximum passenger capacity of 44 to 110 seats that are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by Ukrainian airlines under a contract of operational leasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u113	Honorable colleagues, request to register two in favour, two in opposition to discussing this bill. If anyone doesn't want to do it, you don't have to write it down. The word is given to Pottery Alexiyyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u114	Please pass the word to your colleague, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u115	Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u116	Dear colleagues, what do we have today? This is an active rule of article 105 of the Customs Code, which allows, with conditional full exemption from customs duties, to include aircraft imported into Ukraine by Ukrainian airlines under operating leasing contracts. This has provided us with a long time to increase the number of airplanes by Ukrainian companies on leases in foreign companies who have been in the use of airplanes without their actual purchase and without the payment of customs fees. The cost of such a single aircraft is about $20 million. In 2016, however, the Parliament of the past call was limited in its operation, since it was this type of aircraft that could be manufactured, manufactured in Ukraine and produced by domestic airlines located in Kiev, Kharkiv, and Zaporozhye. At that time, we found a complete understanding between airlines and airlines that they were with each other and would make previous agreements to finance even the production of such small aircraft — up to 90 passenger seats. In fact, today, according to the National Civil Aviation Register of Ukraine, 19 regional aircraft owned by foreign companies from Cyprus, Singapore, Ireland and Portugal are authorised to operate in Ukraine. What do we have today? I asked the committee yesterday to hear the position of the Antonov D.P. plant. Today, I understand that, and the drafters don't have the answers. Unfortunately, there's no government position, or we do have a strategy that we're going to continue with domestic aviation. We don't understand, because today I've been talking to specialists in this factory. It turns out that no orders are bought, as I was told yesterday, and there's no warrant in the defensive sphere, an enterprise on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u117	Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u118	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This bill is urgent and very important for the support of the aviation industry and is also important for the tourism industry, because in the pandemic conditions of today’s airline, the support of airlines and airlines is very important. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, not to be indifferent and to be able to develop in a difficult time in our aviation sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u119	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u120	Please give Julia Klimenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u121	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u122	I want to disappoint you, but 99 percent of Ukrainian tourists don't travel on planes. That's why we understand that this bill "breasts off," I hope everyone understands that, too. But of course, we need to develop, but let's say, if you're talking about localization, that you want to raise the state-owned Antonov enterprise, the Ukrainian industry, let's start thinking about Ukrainian industry, about Ukrainian cheap loans for Ukrainian companies, about you going abroad and promoting Ukrainian production, and not that you're going to drive "air Eurobian" and we're going to live like this. No, we will not live like this, and this will not build on Ukraine’s economic strategy and Ukraine’s future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u123	Anna Constantine's speedboat. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, then with the motives of Shahov, then Nikolaynko. Then we go to the vote. Four minutes, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u124	Dear colleagues, on December 29th last year, during the signing of a memorandum between the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Department of Defense of Antonov, the President of Ukraine said that there had been a government order for three military aircraft, and that was a great success because that was not in all years of independence. That's true. But he also said that in the near future, the Ukrainian Security and Defence Council would consider this issue and consider the issue of a comprehensive and scientific and technical aviation development programme for 2021-2030. Dear colleagues of "The Servant of the People," who represent the Presidential Vertical, have had enough decisions by the OR even this year, where this question could be raised. Because in answer to Nina's question, really, this government strategy, unfortunately, there are no planes, and there are no planes. And this bill, when we adopted it in 2016 in the past, predicted that 20 percent would be introduced when the plane was imported from abroad in order to stimulate the domestic production of airplanes. So we're relying on these companies, and we're not making our planes. So it's a technical bill, and we can go back four years. But if we don't start producing our own products in those four years, we can largely cancel this bill as not working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u125	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u126	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, do we need to build airplanes today? I have to. Is it necessary to build boats? I have to. Are Jobs Needed? I have to. But I appeal to you every once in a while, colleagues, and I invite you once again to the Lugansk region. To visit the city of Lysichansk, where people have no water for years and do not work elevators, not that airplanes do not work, elevators do not work. Children today fly these elevators down and can practically leave their lives. To visit the city of Reuben, to visit every area, to see how people live. Or should we invest and vote on the 2070 bill that our group has registered about the investments of transatlantic companies? And let the investor come in, give guarantees to the state, not rob that investor today from any investment issues. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u127	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u128	Nikolainko Andry, "The Fatherland" faction. We're not going to support this bill because, despite a very nice and correct name, it actually substitutes concepts. Because this isn't really about supporting domestic aviation, and this is just about freeing up myths. As my colleague at Voice said today, it's actually like flying Europlums. So the question is, if we want to support aircraft construction, we have created an entire ministry that has never succeeded with this unsuccessful government in offering a strategy to support aviation and state procurement. At the same time, Anton's representatives weren't on the committee yesterday. The representatives of the Ministry of Strategic Industry were not present. In fact, the government has not explained how this law can contribute to it, except that it will contribute to a number of offshore companies that have brought planes here have been used. That's why we don't support it, but we need a real airline support law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u129	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, Bill No. 5301. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:05:34]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda (this is an extreme question) 5173: Draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (for the Improvement of Certain Aspects of Declaration), registration number 5173, as noted above. The chairman of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Radina Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to the rostrum. Someone's going to insist on the papers? Then let's go over the table. Yanchenko. Don't insist. Kabachenko. I take it you're going to insist on confirmation? Arachami, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u130	Amendment number 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u131	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u132	Colleagues, the committee supported this amendment. But if the national MPs, the honorary hall, think that this money needs further discussion, it's the right of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u133	28 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u134	All right, guys, let's do it again. If the hall feels that the law requires further discussion, it may be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u135	I'm betting on the vote number 28. It's partially accounted for. The position of the committee you just heard. Please vote. [[18:07:40]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Edit completely rejected. Next item. Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Colleagues, don't scream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u136	I ask you to place number 29 for confirmation. This is the last correction. In fact, it's almost identical to the one we just knocked down. It does not apply at all to the Declaration Law. How it got into this bill is a big question. Because it's not about the declaration at all, it's about the changes to the law of another, which we didn't vote on in the first reading, to, in particular, the National Agency law on the detection, arrest and management of assets. It actually offers a whole range of norms that are rather strange, colleagues, because the actual mandate of the NAC will take over the Cabinet of Ministers and give over to the administration the assets arrested by any court decision, at any district center, on any grounds. Because the definition of these special conditions there, well, are so blurry that any assets will fall there. In fact, it's crippling the work of the ARMA itself. So the offer is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u137	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u138	Colleagues, the committee supported this amendment. And I'm asking for your support. This amendment is necessary to ensure the smooth operation of critical infrastructure objects. This amendment is needed to protect people who receive services from critical infrastructure objects, and their lives depend on it. They're now under arrest, we know, the Motor City property complex. As long as the ARMA is looking for a steward for 3, 4, 5 months, who's going to pay people's wages? Who will perform the contracts? Or imagine the situation: In November the ARMA will be in TEC control. Who's going to start the fire mode? That was the problem, and we had to eliminate the consequences. To avoid such a situation, critical infrastructure facilities must be provided with the opportunity, without wasting time on competitions, to the decisions of the Cabinet, provided that all legal restrictions on managers are passed on to the management of the public enterprise, and so will colleagues. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u139	I'll bet you a vote. The amendment was considered by the committee. Please support and vote. [[18:10:32]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. I'll bet you a vote. Are there no more rights? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption (for the Improvement of Certain Aspects of Declaration) (registration No. 5173). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:11:27]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I welcome you all. Wait. Dear colleagues, an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. First of all, I'd like to welcome everyone to the upcoming festivals. Danilo Alexandrovich Getmants. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u140	Dear colleagues, in ten days we will celebrate one of the greatest holidays of our history is Victory Day. This victory with tears in its eyes, this victory that was given to our people by millions during World War II. This is a personal holiday for many families. My family had survived the occupation in Kiev, and my relatives saw people from our house being brought back to Baba’s Yar, who were no longer there. Little kids, two girls, six and four years old. Their fault was that their father was commander of the Red Army. And 76 years later, in the middle of my hometown, the hero city, the city that Babin Jar survived, they set up a march to support one of the SS divisions. In the center of Kiev, they're "singing." Why, what are they staring at? Who are they calling? Those people who fell into Baba Jar's pit? Those people who are being shot in the Dniper Botanical Garden? Or in the Drodobian Jar in Kharkiv? Those who died in the Syrian camp in Kiev or in many other cities? They seem to mark the fighters for Ukraine’s independence. No, it's not. They embellish the idea of independence itself, for which thousands and thousands of our Ukrainians have given their lives, putting it in one row with the words of the SS. Because the SS is a recognized crime, a crime recognized by all mankind. In its definition, anything related to the SS is a crime. I want us to honor now the memory of millions and millions of people from all over the world who have lost their lives as a result of Nazism. Please honor the moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I want to thank all of you, and I want to thank my faction for the position, the constant position in condemning Nazism. We are outraged by the silence of the Kyiv city authorities, who somehow did not condemn the action and allowed it to be conducted. And I also want us to never forget that we are a victorious nation, that we have conquered Nazism. We won then and we win now, and we win forever! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-29-m2.u141	Dear colleagues, once again with the coming festivals! It's nice to have them, to celebrate, but no consequences. Thank you all. Good-bye. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
