ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Get ready to register. I remind you, as always, that registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left. Are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:11:41]] There are 245 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have as many as four names today: Robert Ivanovich Horvat, Julia Volodymyr Ljovckina, Igor Petrovich Marchuk and Vladimir Jaroslavovich Timothychuk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I welcome you from my colleagues! I want success, strength, health, and new victories! Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have up to 30 minutes to speak from Ukraine’s national deputies on Wednesday with proposals, statements and messages. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Tymoshenko? Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I want to keep you informed about the unique raisins that are taking place at NAC Naftogazi on the basis of the incredible tariffs that people are paying. You remember that the maximum heat tariffs for gas flow for hot water to NAC Naftogaz. Now, pay attention! If you open the ProZorro site, you'll see that on October 20, 2020, NAK Naftogaz -- attention -- announced a tender for the involvement of a legal company that, according to NAK Naftogazu's commission, will just explore the possibility of filing a lawsuit against the Slovak Republic. He won't write a lawsuit, he won't study the situation, he'll explore the possibility of filing such a suit. Do you know what the NAC "Naftogaz" put as much value as possible? 15 million euros without VAT and 15.5 million euros from VAT. This is where people's tariffs are written down. And you know how much they really wanted to keep the Naftogazu NAC from the Slovak Republic? So 15.5 million euros of VAT they wanted to pay for research into the possibility of filing a lawsuit, and the lawsuit itself, and what had to lose NAC Naftogaz, is $12 million. Do you feel, yes, the beauty of the combination? And these combinations in NAC Naftogazi are a lot of things, and that's where people's tariffs go. And using this data, including ProZorro, we turned to the faction leaders yesterday to discuss what we're doing with the tariffs, with NAC Naftogaz, with all the beautiful things called corruption in the energy sector. We agreed at the faction leaders' meeting -- first, that the interim commission of inquiry led by John Krulco unanimously votes to start a serious study of the situation in Naftogaz NAK and to find out where the tariffs paid by the people go; and secondly, we agreed that today the factions will be consulted by all factions and we will be able to make a Southern Council, which will be dedicated to the consideration of tariff bills. This means that you and I have a chance to fix this situation. And I ask that the leaders of all factions and factions work today. Tomorrow at 9:15 p.m., a meeting at the Head of the Supreme Council on this subject to form the agenda of the Supreme Council on tariffs. And I also ask you to consider the request to the Attorney General's Office, the NABU, and all the other forces involved in this force structure as to the fact that I have reported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u3	Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u4	Good morning, dear fellows! Everyone probably knows about the energy problems that we've encountered in the last year. These are multibillion - dollar debts, damage to state enterprises, and the absence of a full - time minister. At the beginning of the heating season, however, two more problems were added. First. These are record low reserves of coal at Ukrainian thermal power plants. It's worth saying thank you to the previous head of the Ministry of Energy, for whose cadences, in fact, were demolished by the repair schedule of the Energoatum blocks, which meant that the heat generation was forced to burn coal, replacing the atomic generation. In addition, it is worth mentioning that power plants are currently undersupplying 1 million tons of coal in the last three months, that is, they have actually destroyed the coal accumulation plan in their warehouses. Another important problem is the emergency repair of thermal power plants. Think about it. Today, 12 blocks of heat power plants are in emergency repairs, 11 of them belong to one group of companies. How did it happen that when the heat generation itself plans their own repair schedule, they suddenly go into emergency repairs in the heat of the heating season? As a result, we have the following situation: the first power market has created a deficit and a correspondingly high resource price; the second, Ukraine is obliged to receive technical assistance from Belarus to balance the system; and the third, the state company Centrenerego continues to suffer damage from burning expensive natural gas. I hope that those who are to blame in this situation will examine the law enforcement authorities, including the facts cited in this reference. However, the question arises about what to do with us parliamentarians. There are several suggestions. First offer. It's to create a temporary commission of inquiry that would look into the causes of low coal stocks at Ukrainian thermal power plants and, in fact, the collapse of the coal accumulation plan. In addition, it is appropriate to examine objectively the causes of the exits and the objectivity of the exits to emergency repairs of thermal power plants. Second offer. This is to refer to the Antimonopoly Committee for anticompetitive concerted action by energy - generation market entities with a view to establishing a power deficit in the market and raising the price of a resource. Colleagues, we need to unite our efforts, unite the efforts of the various factions to prevent a similar situation from happening next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u5	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u6	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear citizens of Ukraine, we have a great news yesterday about the information security of the state. Finally, the Ukrainian Security Service announced a suspicion to Spanish blogger Anatolia Sharia. He's like a Ukrainian blogger, but like all Ukrainian citizens who really like "Russian peace," he chose something to live next to Barcelona, Costa-Dorrada there for a few million euros, and he lives there in NATO countries, and from there he washes people's brains. Finally, the Ukrainian Security Service announced to him what he was doing for the war he was waging against his own state. I quote a message from the BBC: "Since 2012, through social networks, electronic media and Russian television channels has contributed to the state and non-government structures of the Russian Federation in conducting special information operations." And this is absolutely pure truth. Anatoly Shari is a propagandist on whose hands blood is actually killing Ukrainians with its activity and activity working for the aggressor country. And at last we see a suspicion. But I demand that we not stop at this, because it's hard to reach Mr. Shari. Of course, our tradition is extradition, it must be returned to Ukraine, but it may take time. As long as you have to impose sanctions against Mr. Shari, don't stop and move forward. And I have the next question. Sharia's suspicion is good, but where do we suspect Taras Kozak? We've been told by the CBS that he's involved in the financing of terrorism. Then we need to move forward, we need to make a suspicion, and we are waiting for that decision. Until we see him. We need to move forward on all the issues where the country of Ukraine is protected. We said we'd finally defend our information security, let's defend our energy security. Your Honor, where is the bill prohibiting Russian electricity from being imported into Ukraine? Where is the bill banning the import of Belarusian electricity, which is the same in Ukraine? Let's take it out and accept it immediately. Where's the bill that you can't pass water into annexed Crimea before the end of its occupation? Let's raise all these questions, let's finally, if we're already on the state defense tracks, let's get on these tracks with two legs and we'll be sure to move, not on one foot. And I want to say to Mr. Sharia, at last we're all waiting for you, Toll, to return to the Fatherland and you'll be responsible for everything you've done against your own country. Of course, it's warmer in Barcelona than it is here in Kiev, but that's why it's home. We're waiting so long for you. Extradition is the main thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u7	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u8	Please hand over Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u9	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'd like to point out that here the previous speaker has partially annotated some subjects. The first is the closure of the mining-rich combination and the migration of Ukrainians to Poland. Second, pay the supervisory boards more than 500,000 per member. Third: increase in gas prices to 9,000 138 dollars per thousand cubes. These are the real reasons and the truth that President Zelenski fears and what sanctions are imposed on independent information channels. The second reason why sanctions are imposed on individual individuals is because of the Ukrainian national MPs from "The Opposition Platform for Life". You all know the sociology of the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology that 74 percent of Ukrainian citizens think that Ukraine is moving in the wrong direction. Of course, our party is criticizing such an economic course, certainly our support has reached 25.7 percent, and this is an absolute first place and victory in a number of regions of Ukraine. These are the real reasons for the President's imposition of the Green sanctions on individuals and people's deputies of Ukraine regarding the "Resistance Platform for Life". And now I'm going to explain in detail why we don't agree to this economic course. Because economic collapse is when GDP is falling by 4.4 percent and GDP has dropped to 62 percent since the 1990s. This is when the country has an absolute debt of $90 billion. This is an absolute record record in the history of Ukraine. That's what we don't agree with. We don't agree that social and tariff policy is that there are economic preconditions for lowering gas prices to 2.5 bracelets, 3 bracelets per cube, and not the figure that is today, 9 gr. 14 copies. That's what we disagree with, and we're going to offer an alternative economic and social course. Undoubtedly, overcoming and restoring the economy from COVID-19 requires tax reform that will stimulate modernization and destroy this technological slowdown. Of course, we're going to insist on fiscal rational policy because it's impossible to pay, on the one hand, a minimum pension of 1,769 dollars, and on the other hand, 500 thousand for each member of the Supervisory Board. That's what we don't agree with. We're going to go against it. And our policy will continue to be that we need a multi- vector foreign economic policy. We're losing a lot of exports. We are losing substantially our industrial potential, deindustrialization in the country, and real social tariff genocide. Against this, our party will speak and offer a new alternative economic course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u11	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u12	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear national deputies, the presidency, but the main thing is the Ukrainians who are listening and watching us right now! I want to continue with the statement by the head of Julius Timoshenko, who really showed one but very specific example of Naftogaz stealing money that belongs to the Ukrainian people, like the money that was supposed to come into the state budget (and Naftogaz did not pay 75 billion dollars last year) just steal. When legal services are announced only to solve one question, can a 15 million-euro lawsuit be filed, and if the lawsuit is won, Ukraine will be able to obtain a maximum of 16 million euros with all the fines. You can imagine, that is, they are studying the possibility at the same price that may be won someday. That's how our money is stolen. And, of course, it's very important that factions' leaders, all factions, have decided that the interim commission of inquiry, which I am tasked with by the Supreme Council, may now proceed to verify the activities of the Naftogazu NAC. Because NAC Naftogaz directly influences the revenue of the state budget, and the TSC is designed to do so to verify who is influencing the fact that the income of Ukraine's government budget is shrinking rather than increasing. And let's look at Naftogaz. What kind of reforms does he make? What does he do? Total mining failure. Instead of increasing the output that was declared, there was a decrease in production last year. Five-year-old U.S.A. Absolutely. Look at the prizes that are running Naftogazu. It's already an illustration in the tongues. The State Audit Service won two lawsuits against Mr. Koboljev. Where are the law enforcement authorities? Why was the court’s decision not implemented and the bonus not returned to the state budget illegally obtained? One million U.S. dollars is the average salary of a member of the Naftogazu government per year. A million dollars! 240 grand a month gets an average employee at Naftogaza. Look, what kind of food do we have? What kind of company is this? And this company has been doing all these years: buying gas from the Ukrainian production of 2 bracelets 60 copies per cube, as your Vitrenco admitted, which you're going to be doing for the third time this week, and selling people 6, then 7, then 8, then 9. People are already confused about how much Naftogaz is going to sell gas and what kind of margin they're going to make. So the only option is to check on the TSC, to hold those who commit these corruption crimes accountable, and to eliminate this Naftogaz as an unnecessary structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u13	Please, National Deputy Bujansky Maksim Arkadijovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! Now we're going to be looking at Order No. 2379 concerning Maidan. This decree actually recognizes Maidan as the most glorious event in our country’s history. But is that really true? Yes, half the country believes Midan is the Dignity Revolution. But the other half of the country sees Maidan as a coup d'état. So what I'm asking is, does Parliament represent the whole country, or is it just half the country? Are we the Parliament of the whole country, or are we the only part that supported Midan? [[B in m in s a l in]] I believe that the "Serial of the People" faction, which went to power to unite the country, must unite the country and demonstrate that it respects all the opinions of our citizens and our constituents. Majdan is our common tragedy. But if you now vote that this is a victory on one side, it will be the defeat of another part of our citizens. It's a shame you've been parasitizing on Maidan for seven years. You are ashamed that for seven years no one is to blame, no one is to blame for the killings in Maidan, for the killings of protestors, for the murder of law enforcement officials. No one was punished. You're the parasite on Maidan, and you want to continue to parasite on it. That's what that decision is for. I propose, there are no winners, there are no winners, we are all one country, I propose to abstain from voting for this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u15	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u16	You know, I was just going to the rostrum, and from this sector, it was like, "If you hide it, it's good." That's what she's actually commenting on in this part of the Hall of Indignation to a healthy politician because the day before the anniversary of the deaths of hundreds of Ukrainians in Maidan is where this Sabbath takes place. I want to go to the regulatory committee. It is clear that a similar violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the rift of Ukraine, the disrespect for the death of the best representatives of Ukraine is a responsibility not only for the Ukrainian deputy who spoke from this rostrum, but also for the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to go to the Presidium. You represent the entire Parliament, and under the Rules, when there is a violation of the Rules in the rostrum, you must stop it immediately. Because our Presidium is very fond of commenting on "European Solidarity," and when the Hero's Revolution of Dignity before the shooting of February 18-20 is here, please excuse me, the Fifth Column of the Kremlin, our passage into the mouth has taken water. It's a shame to see you too! Now, as far as I'm concerned, respectable colleagues, the subject of my talk. I want to say that, obviously, similar statements that have been made here call for the immediate adoption of the Law on Collaborationism and the immediate adoption of the Information Security Act, so that no one would be able to demean the honour and dignity of the country and stab it. And, you know, it happens during the Zelensky presidency on all fronts. Shamefully, of course, the "servants" who sit and stand up in their faction similarly shut their mouths when they prick the country before the anniversary of the Dignity Revolution. But what's really going on in the army? In the army today, soldiers are not paid premiums, to which these unfortunate payments have been tied for protecting the country. And that's what every soldier and officer knows, except the Commander-in-Chief. You know what's actually going on on the front line when you, the majority, simply deprived hundreds of thousands of people of the political right to choose power, so essentially not allowing the Donetsk and Lugansk regions to form local power in these local elections, even though they said there was 200 days of peace in the same place? In fact, you left people there without pay today, without pensions, because the councils are not terminated legally, but in fact the councils in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions are completely suspended, they're shut down today's councils and we get signals from Pásnian, Gírski, Severerodonetski, Lisican district that for a month and a half people don't get paid, they don't get food, they don't get food in the army, they ask schools and gardens to bring them food. That is what your disorder in general has led to. We're talking to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainians! I'm more of a lander. In fact, some of the results of the work of the Interim Investigation Commission on debt issues and on the issue of carbon footprint at all. We know that this is a very difficult question, and all 30 years of independence is going on, because after the end of the history of the Soviet Union, this field has somehow ceased to be needed by someone, on the one hand, on the other hand, it has become very necessary to be someone who in the shadows continues to manage those issues in places. And actually, my team and my assistants are starting to find the first results. Some of the results continue to be hidden, hidden, or unknown. But we're starting to come to physical testing in places, and we're going to find the first, let's say, resistance, which is currently in banal failures, in banal denials of people in the territory. But this is just the beginning, I mean, in front of us about 4.5 months of work, we will definitely find the facts. And now, to the reality of 124 constituencies, this is the city of Czervonograd in the region of Lviv. We have several businesses that have problems. Some of them have problems with their payroll for the miners themselves, it's the Hope Mine. Sadly, at the end of last year, we were unable to obtain an energy minister, including a failure to get into the liquidation program in time and to close our debts in the past year. At the moment, if you remember, we helped them by about 50 million dollars last year, almost 50 million dollars this year. It's a strange situation. It also relates to the fact that Lvivoblanergo does not want to meet the company in any way and only says one thing: cover up all debts at the same time -- and only then do we turn on the electricity. In the meantime, the mine sinks, while some 400 families lose their wages, and in the meantime, the actual business that costs hundreds of millions of dollars can stop completely in these Ukrainian ice creams. And the second question I'd like to mention is the Lviv coal company. I'm asking you to pay attention to the Antimonopoly Committee, and I'd like to draw your attention to the B.S.A. that was there once before. Because it's a place where hundreds of millions of bracelets are stolen, they're mixed up in mud, they're mixed in rock, and they're sent to Ukrainian TECs. Meanwhile, Russian coal under the stamp of Kazakhstan or Poland has to be stopped immediately. We continue to work on the Provisional Commission of Inquiry on Coal Damage, and soon there will be results. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u19	Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u20	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203rd District, Cherniewec Region. I am also having a situational change in the beginning of my speech, and I want to tell our colleagues who are talking about uniting the country so that they can actually do it, not split it up, by covering it up with a union. On the way to Parliament, I had a conversation with members of the railway campaign, and several colleagues had talked about wages before. I have also pointed out on several occasions from this rostrum that there is a need to balance the situation with wages, at least in the public and municipal sectors. And the people who came out, the railways, they say, they don't have political action, they have social and professional requirements. And I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers where they are now, and they're complaining that they can't hear them, they don't want to communicate with them, and I'm asking our Prime Minister, Dennis Schmigal, to get people to hear and give complete answers to all seven points. I will, of course, address this requirement of the Ukrainian Railway and Transportation Association to the Cabinet of Ministers. Now about another problem related to decentralization and our area of physical culture and sports that I represent. From different parts of Ukraine to me and to you, and especially to majors, I think people are more likely to call on signs that sports schools and other sports objects are closing up in different parts of our country. It's unacceptable. There's a security in the law that can't shut down state and municipal sports schools without agreeing with the department, but that doesn't solve the issue, because in fact the problem is deeper, there's different technical and districting new and other related problems. But on our part, we also missed the moment and did not foresee at the decentralization stage the protection of the financing of a stable sphere of physical culture and sport. Believe that this is also one of the most important social standards: the healing, the proper positive upbringing and the glorification of our state, the individual regions, and the populace. So we need to be careful about this, and we need to do everything we can, both from us and from the executive branch. We have chosen the Cabinet of Ministers to provide the same minimum level of funding for physical culture and per capita sports throughout the country. Otherwise, we all live in one country, and let us unite and so on, all professionals have equal working conditions, and efficiency must be determined by skill and professionalism, not by the fact that they are more or less loved by some or other communities or are more capable or less capable of those communities. Thank you for your attention. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u21	The word is given to National Deputy Boyk Yuri Anatolyevich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, surely I will not cease to observe the situation of the denial of three channels in an illegal, unconstitutional way. I want to bring to you the reaction of the international community and the Office of the United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights in Geneva, and the OSCE Commissioner for Freedom of the Media. Everyone admitted that a one-time, immediate exclusion of three channels is a threat to freedom of speech in Ukraine. In a resolution of the European Parliament, the whole department devoted to freedom of speech issues in Ukraine. Special attention has been paid to the fact that the TV channels are excluded without the court’s involvement, as well as to the authorization of a disproportionate regulator in the National Council on Television and Radio. Of course, today we stand for the right of our journalists to provide information and for the people of Ukraine to receive information. But in this background, I'm a little surprised, frankly, and I'm annoyed by the screams of collaborationism. Tell me, please, is it not a display of collaborationism to buy the Tonis channel from Janukovic's son in the East? And getting the personal yacht of the predecessor out of the Crimean Peninsula is paying attention! -with the Russian Navy, is that today's show of collaborationism? And selling at a price above the market, with compensation from a shipbuilding plant in Crimea after 2014 is not a manifestation of collaborationism? And certainly, receiving dividends, paying taxes to the Russian Federation, which is financed by the Russian army -- what is this, a display of patriotism? I believe that in these circumstances those who raise questions today are shouting "Daddy!" On the TV channels, they're actually afraid of mirrors. Because, if you'll excuse me, there's nothing on the mirror foam when the roses don't come out, respectable "preachers" far disrespected! So the position of our faction is clear. Every Ukrainian citizen has the right to receive information. If a person violates the law on direct air, he must be criminally liable, as prescribed by law, or be subject to administrative or financial penalties, but, rather, to the attention of the court. And all the rest is the fear of the people whom you have called servants. And in fact, you're afraid of him and you're closing your mouth to journalists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u23	Thank you. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u24	Dear friends, voters, Ukrainians, colleagues! In a few minutes, you will discuss the matter that the regulatory committee has asked you to go through without discussion. Well, that's what Parliamentarians do. So two MPs took the word, and I actually have a few minutes here to say a few things. You know what happened on January 28th in this room: he called two of his colleagues (one of his parliaments, one of previous) people who lacked adequate education have no experience in the areas they propose to reform, and it raised questions. That same day, I had this story on my Facebook page. You know how many comments in 20 days were about sexism and unethical behavior in 20 days? Zero zero-tenths. But someone really wanted to talk about the fact that a 32-year-old girl is a huge insult to a Ukrainian woman. If that's what your colleagues think, I'm sorry. But non-professionalism, incompetence, ignorance has no gender, and you have to understand that. There's a lot of people in this room who get into the stall, but the regulatory committee doesn't have time to deal with their issues. Do you honestly think that Alexander Kornienko, the author of the winged phrase for "ship pine," really cares about the problems of sexism? Or was it Bragar, who offered to sell dogs to Ukrainians so that they could be counted for these tariffs? Don't be naive. The Servant of the People is interested in one question: the sharp decline in their ratings. And the best way to stop this rating is to clear the electoral field and get the dissidents and the disagreeables out of this room. I understand another position on OPCW, and they're afraid that those voters who vote for the Opposition Block will vote for the OCJ. For them, or for Sharia. What didn't Ruddick do for you? You know, the honourable Ukrainians, that, apart from taking two vows in the Supreme Council, that three times the C.V.C.C. has declared me a winner, I don't have a job in this room and a committee to this day. Do you think I'll talk to you less, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Do you think I'll tell you less about your plans to reform the country? Nothing like that. Yeah, I've done it twice in the day, I'll do four.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u25	Frolov Paul Valerijovich. A statement was also made regarding a break with a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Now we're going to evaluate the actions of our colleague Rudik, who, on January 28th, from this high rostrum, violated parliamentary ethics and allowed himself to have offensive sexist remarks about female MPs. I'd like to remind you that a colleague from the Future Group said that the deputy of the last summons said that she didn't cut the ass. And one of the most effective legislators of this vocation -- Marianne Besugul -- he called a 32-year-old girl who hasn't worked in the service for a day, and he calls us to something, saying, "What are they smoking?"".. In condemning such an act, I urge not only Mr. Rudik, who, by the way, has failed to co-authorize at least one of the adopted laws in this convocation, but all the other colleagues to leave the hooliganic language in the backyard and not to embarrass Parliament with a crow jargon. In order to prevent such distressing events in the future, we today have to punish our colleague and deprive him of his right to participate in five plenary sessions by publishing this decision in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Not only will he have a reputation for not allowing the MP to participate in the plenary but the system of fines that we have put in place will likely result in financial losses. After all, 70 percent of the vote deprives the MP of a 45,000-dollar payment. As co-author of the anti-sexism bill, I refer to the heads of the Committees on Law Enforcement and Human Rights to review these projects on committees and bring them into the session hall. We need to create precedents not only in Parliament, but to signal to the entire Ukrainian society that any words, gestures, manifestations, visual manifestations that express the idea that one person or group of people is worse because of their sex is not just tolerated, but punished properly. This applies not only to the public sphere but also to the private sphere as well as to the Internet. Dear colleagues, let's say no to any discrimination, insults and humiliation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u27	Let's move on to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u28	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u29	Look, you mentioned a lot of the lines here. I didn't take the line either, did I? You don't knock, you better work. On the basis of the conclusions of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich at the plenary session. On 28 January 2021, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sergei Vitaliyovich, a minute. On February 10, 2021, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputies and Organizations of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed at its meeting the statement of 58 Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Political Party 'Serve of the People's Party' on the offensive remarks of the National Deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovic at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 28, 2021, during the presentation of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Security Services. In such cases, at the conclusion of a committee of knowledge. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Elijah Volodymyrovich, a little quieter, please. Please! No discussion. According to part five of article 51 of the Rules, without discussion, a decision may be taken to deprive the Ukrainian national MP of participating in plenary meetings for five plenary sessions. This decision is being made by a well-known voter through the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Sergei Vitaliyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u30	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Just before the Head of the Governing Council spoke of the position of part five of article 51 of the Rules on what was going on without discussion. This is not a challenge for the Regulatory Committee, as the law has spoken today. And indeed, the Regulatory Committee at its February 10th meeting reviewed the statement made by the National Deputies (the first is the First Deputy Head of the People's Servant, Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko, the other National Deputies – only 58 signatures), in which the statement of the People's Deputy Rudik was made during the plenary session of the Parliament on January 28. Also regarding the statement made by the People’s Deputy Rudik at the address of the National MP of Ukraine, Mariana Bezugola, pointed out in his address at the February 2nd Parliamentary Plenary Meeting of the People’s Deputies of Sowsun. In line with the provisions of article 51 of the Rules, according to the findings of the statements made by the members of the People's Party of the People's Party, and taking into account the statement made by the People's Deputies of Sowsun, the Legislative Committee decided to adopt the opinion on the statement of the Ukrainian National MP Rudik and to recommend to the Parliament without discussion the decision to deprive the Ukrainian People's Deputies of their right to participate in the five plenary sessions of the Parliament and to bring such a decision to the knowledge of the electors through the newspaper Volos Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I still consider it necessary to inform you. In recent times, it has been thought that the decision of the Regulatory Committee has been taken in violation of procedural requirements. I'm informing you. Our committee consists of 11 deputies. Since the beginning of the February 10th session, eight members of the committee have joined in the video conference. In further consideration, contact with two members of the committee was lost. During their consideration of the matter, they were present at the meeting, engaged in the discussion and voting of six members of the committee, more than half of the composition, the quorum was. Four national deputies — more than those present — voted in favour of the decision. Therefore, this decision has been taken in full compliance with the Rules and the Committees Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u31	Thank you. In accordance with part five of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the committee’s proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion, article 51 of the Rules, study at last. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Disposal of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Jaroslavovich Rudik, has the right to participate in five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:56:47]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the sixth anniversary of the beginning of Eromaydan and the events of the Dignity Revolution (registration No. 2739). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:57:26]] For 229 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Ustinova, Alexander Yuriyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, considering what the previous speakers have said here, I am very much asking those who consider themselves to be a part of the Dignity Revolution who supports what happened in Maidan, who consider the Dignity Revolution to be a historic event, to come in here and show that it does unite Parliament. Today, your point is to vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree dedicated to the seventh anniversary of the Dignity Revolution, Maidan, which took the lives of hundreds of our citizens. Tomorrow is the seventh anniversary of these events. This decision is primarily about justice and our history. I want to tell you that even the European Court of Justice acknowledged Maidan and the Dignity Revolution as a historic event, gave a legal assessment of what it was. But the Ukrainian Parliament was unable to do so in seven years of its work. That's why we can take a historic step today and admit that Midan, that the Dignity Revolution was a historic event, that we as parliamentarians condemn the activities of individual employees of the Berkut unit and the police officers who killed people. That we demand a logical conclusion and yet in the courts to admit that the actions that these people were doing, that the actions that the leaders of the State were doing were wrong. You know why I say it's about justice? Because 20 families of family members, close members of the Dignity Revolution and the Heroes of the Heavenly 100 did not wait for this justice. They died waiting for that justice, for their children to be recognized as heroes, not perverts, as the Portans tried to do through their own courts. That's why we, as a Parliament today, have to give a consolidated answer and vote in favour of the Maidan, that the Dignity Revolution was a historic event, for that we are still a Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u33	You're welcome. I'll call it in. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I announce. Dear colleagues, listen, please! I declare a moment of silence for all those who gave their lives during the tragic events that took place in the 14th year. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Poturayev Mikita Ruslanović, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, a year ago, my committee colleagues and I reviewed this draft decree and supported it. On February 15, this year, with the aim of clarifying individual positions, our committee reviewed the draft decree and again supported it. In view of the fact that a year has passed since the previous ruling, we propose to replace the sixth anniversary with the seventh, and not to change the substance of the document, to add a few more technical legal rights. All the corrections are in the conclusion of a committee that you are given either in writing or in paper form or in your electronic offices. As a result of the review, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the sixth anniversary of the beginning of the Eromanadean and the events of the Dignity Revolution (registration number 2739) on the basis and overall with the Committee’s proposals. I have a few more seconds, and I want to point out that the vast majority of the people in this room today are here because of the Dignity Revolution. The vast majority of the people who are here today would never have found themselves in this room if it hadn't been for the blood of the Heroes of Heaven. I ask you not to forget about this to anyone who owes their political career to those who have given their lives for the freedom of Ukraine and every Ukrainian, as well as to those who still have no conscience to call those events a coup d’état. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u35	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u36	Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u37	Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u38	Ukrainians today, when we see Russian forces in the east of Ukraine, it is especially important to remember the Dignity Revolution, since there is no doubt that the Dignity Revolution was a stage in the Ukrainian struggle for the independence of the Ukrainian State. And when Azarov announced that he was going to Europe, this meant the open road to the full occupation of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. But Midan broke those plans, Maidan refused to allow Ukraine to make Russia a colony, and the Ukrainians in that winter showed unprecedented heroism, defending Ukrainian independence. Midan became part of the Ukrainian identity. And that's why it's so important for Russian propaganda today to discredit Midan, so it's so important for agents of Russian influence here in the hall to show that Maidan was a coup d'état. And I'm going to the largest faction. How can the information security of Ukraine be protected from Russian propaganda, and here, from the country’s highest rostrum, Russian propaganda is permitted? You can't do that. The war started here, by the way. You mentioned Crimea yesterday. I remember when the Kharkiv Agreements were adopted, actually, members of the Party of the Regions, I remind you, with George's tapes, as Russian diversans, made a decision here to increase the Russian contingent in Crimea. You're the one who brought the Russian soldiers here! You're the one who started the war! Today, we are talking about our memory. Today we have this claim to accept to tell the world and society: Ukraine remembers, Ukraine fights and Ukraine wins! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u39	Heroic glory! Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u41	Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u42	Colleagues, the greatest human value is life. And in fact, no one in this room has the moral right to question the heroism of the people who died in Maidan, the heroes of the Celestial 100 and the soldiers, the Ukrainian soldiers who still defend us from the enemy and die there every day. What's the verdict? It's not about politics, it's about justice and respect, it's about honoring the memory of the people and the heroes who gave it up for Ukraine's irreversible course in Europe, for European values, for where we're going. And it is this position for these people that we must support together, without being attached to political flags and brands. Of course, perhaps by separating the political forces that would look much more organic in the State Duma Hall of the Russian Federation, not in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. This decision, it has to honor the heroes. So I call on everyone, all the Ukrainian deputies and the Ukrainian forces to support it and finally on the seventh anniversary of the Dignity Revolution to do what we should have done a long time ago. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u43	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Head. First of all, I'd like to respond to the accusations of individual colleagues who were speaking. You know, nothing is as surprising as cynicism and double standards when they steal 144 million dollars at the Maidan Memorial. This time. There's official criminal conduct, it's being investigated. One moment. One second. If we remember 2013 — and I remember very well — October of the month, perhaps sometime before that — why protests took place in Ukraine in the first place. The question was the signing of the economic part of the Association Agreement. We were promised a European vector of economic integration, European standards, European wages of 1,000 euros and many other things. What have we done in the last seven years? Look, first thing we got. The country’s GDP fell from 183 to 153. The exports of goods, it would seem, we got, the economy now had new possibilities, it was 63 billion -- it became 49. If we're talking about European wages and pensions, when in individual countries 1.5 thousand, 1 thousand 600 euros minimum wage, we now have 175 euros. Next, other indicators. The minimum pension was $147 in the 13th year. Now it's 77. The same is true of the cost of living. This is what allows us to talk about the fact that the European vector of economic integration proved to be wrong and the economic course that was offered. And the last. Investments, equity, payroll, 13 times the price of gas, 13.2 times the price of heating is all those indicators that say we have not reached European standards of living, European level of purchasing power. And today's Supreme Council is supposed to be proposing, not a declaration, but an economic course that implements the European standard of living in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u45	Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u46	Igor Gus, MP Party for the Future, Volin. You know, friends, in this room, I'm sure the vast majority of those present are either the participants of Maidan or those who were sympathetic to Maidan. There are both of them, and there are many of them in the predominant faction. And there's only one political force that was still behind Russia, behind Putin and against Ukraine. What is Maidan to most Ukrainians? It's not just a struggle for a European vector, it's not just a struggle for some value, it's a struggle for freedom, it's a struggle for our country's freedom. You see what's going on last year and in this in our neighbors. Belarus. Sadly, they have not been able to gain freedom over the past 30 years. And the dictator "adopted" an entire nation, 30,000 people were thrown into prison, murder, violence. Sadly, they failed. Same thing today in the Russian Federation. People get off their knees, but they can't. We did it. We were able, not because the politicians led us, but because the people got up, and some went under the bullets, and today they are lying in a Syrian land. I'm sorry, like a playground that's been in this room for five years. I'm sorry we didn't make it in five years, to the post-mystery authorities, to close all the issues, to attract those who killed, to build the Maidan museum, and a lot of other things. But we don't have to stop. I'm in charge of consolidating support for this determination, and yet I'm trying to make those heroes in Midan really heroes not only among the Ukrainians, but in the middle of the world. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u47	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u48	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, it's probably my first sound, but I remember Orange Street very well. Who doesn't know who's not from Kiev, what Orangerain Street is, is the central morgue. And the street of Peter Zaporozka, there's another morgue. They took the boys from under Michael's Church, and they took Peter Zaporozka to the boys who were in the hotel "Ukraine". So far, you know, I remember the eyes of John Tarasyuk’s father and the father, Saxon Hrapaczenko, who came first to identify the body. Close your mouth, please, to this first MP sitting here on this first one. Because you will never forget these eyes, for they have cooled down to see their sons, whether they are lying in the sea or not. You know who won't have a hand to vote for this decision that recognizes Maidan as a historic event, buy yourself tickets. You want us to buy you, go to that Rostov or whatever. There aren't our playgrounds, there's no fucking Ukrainians, there's not everyone else who's ruining your life. Forget about this country and just get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u49	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u50	Dear Ukrainian people! In 1991, you and your parents chose the independence of Ukraine de jure, but not de facto, and in fact, in February 2014, there was a fight for the mental independence of Ukrainian society from the so-called "Russian world". Ukraine then paid too high a price, and the pain and unrest overwhelmed every Ukrainian’s heart. And so far we have not rewarded the heroes of Maidan, their families, their families for their great feat. Today's declaration that we are voting is the recognition of their sacrifice, and that is that we continue to implement their ideas from the development of a democratic pro-European Ukrainian society in life. Hail the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u51	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u52	The European Court of Human Rights gave a clear definition: a peaceful protest that was severely suppressed by power. But I don't think Maidan's a grader, and that's what you're feeling. And when seven years ago in Donetsk, Simferopol, Zaporozhye, or Lviv, people went out, it was their attitude toward the waywardness, the cruelty, the stupidity of the authority. But more importantly, what lessons we all learned. A key lesson. In 7 years, only one district councillor, who turned Zaporezka’s district authority into a rally of bandits, took responsibility. One. Everyone else escaped that responsibility. I think that's the answer to the question of whether we're going to take lessons into the future and whether it's going to bring this nation together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u53	The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratiuk Oleni Konstantinovni. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself from the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to express my view of this decision. I was the initiator of this ruling on this Conciliation Council, and I thank the head of the committee and the entire humanitarian committee for having made this decision today. This decision is really just a dot in historical justice, it's a memory that we should remember, all those who repay those people who died so that we can be here today, working for the benefit of the people. And frankly, it's a lacmus paper, it's for whether we're in favor of European justice, whether we still want to fight in that swamp that's being offered here today in the speaking room. So I'm asking you, the Parliament of February 18, 14 started here with bloody events -- I personally took part in this when I helped people get out of the events that happened, it was personal pain for me -- and I'm very much asking you not to use words and not to waste words on these memorable days. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u55	Heroim Slava! Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the sixth anniversary of the beginning of the Euromanadean and the events of the General Assembly (registration No. 2739). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:18:22]] For 295 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. [[Applause]] Thank you. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 200, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 24, "Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 15, "Trust" – 16, "non-fractional" – 8. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve individual provisions in connection with the conduct of a special trial (registration number 2164). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:19:15]] For 238. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The seventh anniversary of events on Maidan is approaching, important for a country that is terrible for people. These events were before us, and it seemed that we were all witnesses to these insolent and terrible crimes, which are about to happen, and the guilty will be set up and punished. Sadly, though, that was not the case. I don't want to and I won't blame anyone, but there's still no convictions for the shooting of people in the Institute. Despite time, people are waiting for this, a great social request for the conviction of Yanukovich, Zacharychenk, and others — the contracting authorities — of these terrible crimes still exist, and we have to answer it. Bill 2164 was designed precisely for the purpose of inevitability of punishing persons who committed crimes and with the aim of avoiding criminal responsibility, either have gone out or are in other countries, particularly in the aggressor country, or in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. In the current Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, a special trial is linked to an international search for a person, which, in turn, makes the investigating authorities dependent on Interpol's exposure to the so-called Red Card. What's in practice? In practice, courts usually refuse to satisfy their concerns about special judicial investigation or judicial conduct, and the perpetrators continue to avoid fair punishment. And it's time to put an end to it. The bill provides two grounds for a suspect to be found: if the suspect is found unknown; if the suspect is avoided at the investigative hearing, the prosecutor, the investigating judge of the court on condition of his proper report of such a call, and there is reasonable reason to believe that he has left and/or is in another country or in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. In addition, the bill changes the link between a special pretrial investigation institute and an international search for a suspect in a search. Dear colleagues, I am confident that on this anniversary of the events in Maidan the best gift for the victims, relatives, and close - knit heroes on the Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u57	The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u58	Colleagues, this bill is our debt to the people who came out in the 14th year to resist the system that was suppressing the people of Ukraine. It is a debt owed to those who have died to those who have gone on in life but who will forever remember these days and this year. And this includes the debt owed to those who, after leaving the country, have been abroad for many years now, feel that the State of Ukraine cannot bring to justice those criminals who committed, organized and accompanied these killings, these crimes against the people of Ukraine. Colleagues, I have a request to support this bill before the first reading. The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered and also recommends that it be supported as a basis. For the second reading, we need to work on and identify the safety nets that are due under this bill, and that's absolutely fair. But on this day, at this time, we have to show our will that the irreversibility of punishment matters in our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u59	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u60	National Deputy of Ukraine Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Association of Fathers. Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u61	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we certainly agree with the fact that matters relating to Maidan, the restoration of justice, the restoration of justice with regard to the Heroes of the Celestial 100, the people who were innocently killed in Maidan by the Yanukovich regime, must finally be resolved. And a special bill that has to solve this problem must be passed in Parliament. The Fatherland faction unanimously supports the idea that such standards should be adopted as defined in this law. But this bill should only be voted on in the first reading. And I'll explain why. Because for the second reading, we have to separate the questions that are relevant to Maidan, which are related to the Heroes of the Celestial 100, which relate to the attraction to criminal responsibility of the Yanukovich regime and their associates, from all the other issues that are absolutely unrelated to Maidan. So in the first reading, we're voting on this bill, and "Paternity" is going to make amendments to divide these issues into second reading. I think it's going to be right and fair. And under the noise of the right things, protecting Maidan, protecting the restoration of justice, don't put those things that completely undermine criminal criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u62	Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u63	Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u64	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u65	For everyone on the Maidan, these days are very difficult. And emotionally, I understand my colleagues very well: Andria Parbia, and Solomy Bobrowski, and Helen Condratuk. And believe me, it's very hard for us to mention it, I think everyone who's seen it and heard it is a huge trauma for life. And I cannot help but agree that this is our huge debt to the families of the dead, to many. We've passed this law on a number of occasions in the past. You know, there were people in this room who were so lobbying their interests that they were actually paying a lot of money so that a bill like that wouldn't be approved. And that's an honest confession. This instrument must exist under the historical conditions that Ukraine has experienced. But I cannot and will not agree with my colleague John Krulk. It's really a two-end bat, and this tool is going to have to be improved to the second reading. We need to do everything we can to ensure that this instrument is not used for the political purposes of political divisive power. Because it's actually very convenient for this, because without an Interpol announcement, it's possible to apply a non-conviction procedure. That is, the irreparability of punishment for Midan's affairs and the impossibility of political application is our approach. But now there's something else that I want to say about Maidan to those of us here who are very much in favour of economic integration, about "poperitoneals" and things like that. You know, I'm afraid there were "breeders," and it was you. These were the people who bankrupted the country when there was zero in the Statehood, borrowing 4 billion in Putin. These were the people who voted in this Hall in the Harkow Agreements that allowed the Russians to bring their troops to Crimea, and actually achieved what Crimea had become for a while, I think it was occupied by the Russian Federation. These "breeders" are directly involved in Midan's affairs, and they finally have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u66	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd love to discuss the economic premeditations and approaches that we had in the 14th, 17th and 18th years, but I'm going to pass on the word to Gregory Mama, who's going to tell you professionally why.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u68	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u69	Honorable national MPs, you can talk about all the events, you can tie them to the law, you can admit something, you can't admit it, but this bill is a little bit more than that. This bill on amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code. The Criminal Procedure Code applies not only to those who have fled but to all Ukrainian citizens. And if there's a substitution of ideas specifically about one thing, that's Parliament's stupidity. This law says two very simple things that the investigator can place 2 messages, 2 messages, not give properly, and announce intergovernmental search. That's right. I think it's still necessary for the law enforcement system, with so many law enforcement agencies, to do their job well. I would like to point out that the international search for a non-conviction procedure is only one hundred percent for the initiation of the procedure. The procedure begins on general grounds under the terms of the Criminal Procedural Code, when the law enforcement authority, the procedural director, refers to the court, proves the initiation of the procedure for acquittal, and the court initiates the procedure by its appropriate decision. You can change the law, but these changes will result in the judicial branch of power being corrupt, which does not give rise to long sentences. Unfortunately, we will not support this bill, because the changes that are being used under one event will be distributed to all Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u70	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. No one else wants to speak? Aresonkov, Ustinanova. In four minutes, we'll move on to the vote. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group "For the Future" agrees with the conclusions of the representatives and factions of "The Fatherland" and the factions of "European Solidarity," which say that this bill is like a stick with two ends. On the one hand, we understand that we need to look for a real tool to bring responsibility to those who are involved in this tragedy that took place in Midan and the Dignity Revolution, to the blood that has been spilled there today in Russia or in the occupied territories of Ukraine. And the reason for the search is that there are only reasonable grounds to believe that they have left or are in this territory, according to law enforcement authorities. But we, friends, write laws on a permanent basis, not just for representatives of the former political regime, whose place is in prison. Therefore, we are convinced that it is important that the criminals be punished by their actions to the Maydan in 2014. But it is also important for us not to see in the hands of any President of Ukraine, whatever his name, a powerful mechanism of pressure against political opponents in the future. And when we adopt this draft law, we will remember the judicial reform that has been carried out by the previous President of Ukraine, which has made judges and courts very much subject to one person. So obviously we're coming out of existing political realities. We believe that this bill is necessary, that it should be adopted in the first reading, but only in the first reading, that we should work on the second reading from the establishment of the time frame of the Dignity Revolution. And in such circumstances, our parliamentary group is ready to vote in his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u72	Chernev Yegor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u73	Good afternoon, dear fellows! There's been a lot of talk here about what the Dignity Revolution is for us, and it's really a civilizational choice that Ukraine made seven years ago. I don't think we're gonna make it out of this. But at the same time, it is a great tragedy for many families who have lost loved ones. I personally witnessed the death of one of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100. He died in fact in my arms. He was killed with a bullet stopped by a motor vehicle. We just broke through. I saw his eyes. And I believe that as long as there is no just justice for those who commit such crimes, we cannot close this unhealed wound. And until these criminals are punished, we will have the risk of repeating this situation and, God forbid, losing the country. So I ask you to support this bill in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u74	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP fully supports the logic that has been expressed by legal professionals, lawyers with the need to be very careful about change, in this case in the Criminal Procedural Code, because there are legal aspects, and it is desirable that they be kept in full scope. But today this bill is about ensuring the inviolability of punishment for criminal offences, crimes committed by officials or others who have left and resided in the territory of other nations. Therefore, we need to look for and improve the mechanism for drawing to the responsibility of such ones. Inevitability of punishment is a key position. That's why the Trust MPs will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u76	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I will explain in two words what this bill is about. Now, in order to condemn a person in absentia -- those who are now in Russia, in occupied territories, those berkuts that have escaped -- we need to declare a person in an interstate or international search. In the Interstate, we can't announce it because it's only in the SND countries, and Russia tells us that "we don't see this person because it doesn't suit the state interests of the Russian Federation." And I understand them. That's how they don't give us Pshonka, so they don't give us Zachrichenko and everyone else who did those murders and what happened on Maidan. We can't put these people in an international search because they were in top positions, and Interpol isn't doing it. That's why we have a tool for now those people who are in Russia and in the uncontrollable territories that still belong to Ukraine de jure, to announce in search and in absentia that those berkuts that have killed our people in Maidan are condemned. It's about justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u78	Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code for the Improvement of Certain Provisions in relation to Special Investigations (Registration No. 2164). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:37:41]] For 299 Decision taken. Next question of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, a brief announcement. National MP Yvchenko, in connection with the failure of his card, asks to count the vote "yes" in the vote for the 2739 draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending paragraph 7 of paragraph 2 of section XV of the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to extend the deadline for the completion of the training of candidates and doctors of science (registration number 4667, 4667-1). We need to make a decision to put the matter in order of the day. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. It takes 226 votes. [[11:38:48]] For 319 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:39:11]] For 312 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:39:31]] For 236 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Špak Love Alexandrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u81	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I am convinced that we are all aware that our work in Parliament should be geared towards addressing the urgent needs that arise. Such an urgent need is now a social tension that exists in our scientific environment. I, a doctor of economic science, worked as a university rector for six years. But imagine, we want to continue for six months, that's by the end of the year, protecting candidates, doctoral dissertations, because for the cause of the COVID pandemic, some scientists couldn't write a job on time. But there's an alternative bill that completely nullifies this bill that there is. So he's not an alternative, he's completely changing the system. So on March 10th, our scientists won't be able to file scientific papers for protection, and the new system is not designed, and we have to solve this system accordingly. It's about an alternative bill. It's where we completely subvert the concept of "doctor of science." Because the doctor of science, as my answer was, is science. But, sorry, master's, candidate's work is also science. Let's not kill our science! That's the first one. The other one. I'm supporting an alternative bill if we go to this, and I'll give you my papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u82	The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u83	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We're talking about an alternative bill right now. What does the basic bill propose? Postponing the protection of candidates and doctors of science who began their training by September 1, 2016 for another six months. I'm going to remind you that last June we already did this once and we did it once. And that's a problem that's just being delayed. We're proposing an alternative bill to solve it. And those who have started their training as future candidates or doctors of science by September 1, 2016 will be able to defend themselves permanently, when they want it, in doctoral and permanent special forces, without a specific deadline until December 31st. There are valid reasons that are now described in the law that allow them the right to do so. And you don't have to, I think, limit them to another one of them. It's different. What does this law offer? This law really proposes that the Doctors of Science from the Higher Education Act be transferred to the Science and Technology Act. I don't agree with the previous speaker, because Master's and PhD programs are educational programs and doctoral programs are pure science. That's why she belongs in the Science and Technology Act. Moreover, this will in no way affect the work of specialized scientific councils, the work of higher education institutions in the preparation of doctors of science or any other scientific degrees. And most of all, what's proposed. Finally, let's sort out the sentences of scientific degrees. And now that we are. For doctors, nothing changes, there's going to be permanent specialized councils, and for PhD, it's going to be a little different, and we're going to pass it all on to university autonomy. And universities will be able to create one-time doctoral counseling for philosophy, to judge a degree, and a more attitude college of the Ministry of Education and Science will not approve this decision, the law and responsibility are fully transferred to places within the decentralization and autonomy of universities. The committee therefore considered both bills and decided: Bill 4667 should be rejected and Bill 4667-1 should be adopted as a basis. And what's more, colleagues, the only thing I can agree with the previous speaker is that we really do have a 30 June degree in science. And according to May 15, special scientists are working for the council, and by March 10, we need to make a declaration of protection. So we need to urgently adopt this law in order to organize the system by March 10th. Thank you, colleagues. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u84	Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u85	I'm sorry, maybe I'll say the non-parliamentary word, too. Finally, I felt like I was allowed to say the word. I want to support our colleague Sergio Babak with this bill. I have a doctor of science on my phone, a professor who screams, "Doctor Grandma!".. That is to say, it is the right position to adopt this bill, which will allow, on the one hand, to resolve the issue of surrender to those persons who have started to protect doctoral dissertation since 16 and, on the other hand, to divide that the doctorate is a scientist and not an educational procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u86	Thank you. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u87	Mr. Head, I'd like to give you the floor to Mr. Rostislav Pavlenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u88	Rostislav Mikolaiovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u89	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, the faction of "European Solidarity" is that problems need to be solved, and reforms should be completed, not put off once more. So in our first reading, we will support an alternative bill, based on the fact that a new protection mechanism that will allow greater autonomy of universities will finally allow us to solve this node and show the way and the type of protection for all those who defend themselves both at the doctoral level of philosophy and at the doctoral level of science. The law still needs to be developed in part of the distribution of powers between the Ministry of Education and Science and the National Authority to ensure the quality of education, on some other issues. But this can be done in a calm way for a second reading, and our position is linked accordingly. But the support of this bill should open up a whole range of, we think, work on the education system, higher education, in particular financial autonomy of universities, particularly in the more effective fight against plagiarism, non-receiving the highest positions, including ministers, people who are clearly suspected of plagiarism, and issues about the quality of textbooks and teaching materials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u90	Please, National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Miroslavovna, Deputy Group for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u92	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u93	You know, dear colleagues, we know that democracy is a procedure. And if we're talking about science, we think that science should stand above the procedure. The procedure should not bind the pathways of the scientific process. And I think we need to adopt this bill more quickly, one of them. Of course, I prefer the basic bill, which is co-authored by our colleague Irina Miroslavovna Konstankevich. I want to say that this bill is certainly important for a few hundred scientists who want to become candidates, doctors of science. Because young scientists are waiting for protection, and they can no longer apply for protection, the procedure takes four months, and now specialized scientists don't accept dissertation because the procedure is due to end at the beginning of June. We realize that if we do not now accept the protection of those scientists, we can get rid of or postpone the emergence of deep philosophers, political scientists, historians, scientists who can become one with the names of known scientists such as Miroslav Popovic, Viacheslav Brukhovecki, Merab Mamardashvili, and so on. I want to say that we need to understand the different terms that will be included in this bill. Let's say the term "falsification" and "factory" may be interpreted to the end so that there is no abuse. Because if someone puts a taboo on counterfeiting, a dissertation factory, a specialized board scientist can lose his status for a few years. He may be a victim of a higher educational institution, and he may be a victim of many scientists. Forgery should become a separate law on academic integrity. The issue of getting along with the MON, creating one-time ones. Specializing in scientific advice. This is also a controversial issue that is more addressed in the basic bill. So I think we need to develop, not a temporary position of protection, but a permanent position, and we are ready to vote in favour of our co-author's basic bill as a basis for our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u94	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u95	I'd like you to pass it on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u96	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! I think just because Bill 4667 was introduced, where I'm also co-authoring for the continuation of the possibilities for the protection of the dissertation, we got an alternative bill. In fact, I think this bill is a little bit using this problem with the dissertation papers, and accordingly, the problems that have arisen from the name that have not developed the protection order, the MON has not considered it, the government has not approved it. And so we're using what we have to do to continue this dedline, and we're doing a lot. Turn over, and not to the best of it, the Higher Education Act. I think we should have identified the problems. We had to work together with the scientists. On Monday, instead, we register a bill, and on Tuesday, an extra committee reviewes the draft without the conclusion of the GNEU and recommends that we accept it. But I think there's a desire to change the relationship in the field of protection of dissertation, and they're not very good. So we're going to apply for second reading. And the scientists who read the text of the bill yesterday are calling me and asking me why they're cleaning up the Higher Education Act as a doctor of science and whether universities don't need science. And then they make it clear that when we work at the university, we don't lose the right allowances? This needs to be clearly stated so that people do not worry about it. It also raises the question of giving MoN additional authority to agree to the formation of one-time specialized scientific councils to judge the degree of Doctoral Philosophy. Is that what we need? Do you want to put the corruption risks back in the MON? So I'm going to prepare for the second reading. Moreover, today, after a meeting of Parliament, I will negotiate with a number of Rectors and we will consult them on what we can do. And hopefully, the profile committee will be constructive and will take these revisions into account for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u97	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Who else? Lukashev. Who else will perform? Sowsun. Please turn on Lukashev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we support an alternative bill from several positions. First of all, it is necessary to protect young scientists from the inactivity of MONU and the name that has led to the fact that, on the basis of the lack of regulatory procedure, they haven't been able to start a long-term defense of the doctor of philosophy's dissertation. There is certainly a need to address today the question of how to translate those rules into the Science and Science Act, because in fact there is concern in the education environment about the benefits of science and teaching workers. But what I'm saying is that universities have complete autonomy over the award of Ph.D.'s degree in philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u99	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u100	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, regarding this bill. You know, I'm curious to hear now that representatives of all the factions who voted for the appointment of Sergio Scarlet as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine complain that the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine has not developed the necessary legislation. Guys, you should have thought about that when you voted for Sergei Scarlett, and now you're surprised he's not doing something. Second, the question of the logic of what decisions we make. I remember a year ago, perhaps most of them forgot, there was a bill in this room that said positively that we are decentralizing education in the area of higher education: we are taking licences to the Minosvets, we are confiscating other powers. Now the alternative bill, which is being proposed, returns the license, returns the mandate to agree to create specialities under the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the same Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine that is not currently in place to prepare a valid legislation. Guys, let's just be consistent and a little bit more strategic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u101	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u102	Ivan Krulko, Fatherland faction. You know, I'm very interested in discussing these two bills in the hall, how to support it, how not to support it. So the problem is that these are two different bills. They apply to different subjects and can't be a bill of law which is an alternative to a bill that changes the "transitional positions" of one, changes the term, continues to allow young scientists to protect candidates and doctors for six months, and one law is a bill that amends four other legislative acts. He's not right or wrong, he's just different. So I want to pay attention, you know, this is basically, if you can't, and you really want to, then you can. This bill could not be registered as an alternative. We had to look at it separately, first to vote on the basis and the whole bill of my co-authority, where we just continue for six months to protect the candidate and doctorate, and then by individual law to solve the problem that Mr. Babak and the entire committee presented. That's what I'm talking about. Clearly, then, we need to vote for anything because we need to solve the problem. But I'm pointing out that I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u103	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending paragraph 7 of section XV, paragraph 2, of the Act "On Higher Education" concerning the extension of the deadline for the completion of the training of candidates and doctors of science (registration No. 4667-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:03]] For 339 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote. According to part two of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half of the deadlines for submission of rights and proposals and to prepare a bill for the second reading on the draft amendment to paragraph 7 of section XV, paragraph 2, of the Act on Higher Education, on the extension of the deadline for the completion of the training of candidates and doctors of science (registration No. 4667-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:57]] For 248 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Law on Amendments to Article 16 of the Act on Air Protection of Ukraine on the regulation of ozone-depleting substances and fluted greenhouse gases (registration No. 4259). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Bill, review. [[11:58:48]] For 231 Decision taken. Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources Shahmatenko Roman Sergiyovich is invited to attend. I think we'll listen to the deputy minister and take a break, it'll be 12:01. Is there no objection? Your time is coming, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Honorary Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is submitted by the Government a draft Act amending article 16 of the Law on Air Protection on the regulation of ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases (registration number 4259). The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's Atmospheric Air Act into line with the requirements of European regulations for the regulation of fluted greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances and the Montreal Protocol and the Cygal Amendment thereto. This will allow us to cope properly with climate change and ozone damage. People's deputies would like to support the project mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u105	Thank you. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u106	The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use, Vasilko Lesio Volodymyrna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the purpose of this bill is to bring Ukraine's Air Protection Act into compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of economic activity with ozone-depleting substances and fluted greenhouse gases. In fact, this is a technical bill dealing with Ukraine’s compliance with its international obligations, especially after Ukraine’s entry into force of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and specifically on the gradual reduction and further cessation of consumption of these substances. In 2016, the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol was adopted, which establishes the requirements for regulating fluted greenhouse gases under the ozone-depleting substances reduction mechanism. And the law deals with the use of ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases and the products they contain and their consumption in Ukraine. According to the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union, the bill does not conflict with Ukraine’s obligations under the Association Agreement and in accordance with European Union law. GNEU, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, also has no objection to the possibility of adopting this bill. As a result of the committee's review, a decision was adopted on the basis of a bill amending article 16 of the Act on Air Protection of Ukraine on the regulation of ozone-depleting activities and fluted greenhouse gases. Please support this bill, it is completely technical and necessary for us to move in a Euro-Integration way and for the Ukrainians to live and breathe clean air. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u109	Please pass it on to the Prince's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u110	Mikola Knieżicki, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, this is a completely technical bill, of course, to be supported, and in the second reading, to take into account the proposals of the GNEU and correct it editorially. This is a great example when we simulated the turbines, we pressed the button for imperfect bills to now push the button to correct them. So, yes, we're going to press the pros button and we're going to support this bill in the first reading to correct the turbulence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u112	Please, National Deputy Speedhod Anna Konstantinovna, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u113	We absolutely support this bill. Moreover, it is truly technical and requires acceptance. But, you know, today I want to mention my district and Boguslavina. I have a Tempe factory in Boguslav that just poisons people's lives with its emissions, doesn't allow them to breathe properly, and no one controls this factory. No matter where I write, no matter where I go, no matter what environmental inspections, no matter what we do, everything just shuts down, because this factory completely covers the Mini-Defense. I am very much asking and I am now addressing the President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Ecology with a request to intervene in this situation, and to help the factory or to set up filters so as not to poison people, or to be temporarily closed until it meets environmental requirements and standards. This bill will be supported by the parliamentary group "For the Future" in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the national deputies to come to the hall. And I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunovich. And after that, will those who wish to speak yet come forward? It won't. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Oh, there will be more, I see. Mrs. Larissa Bilozer, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u115	Thank you. The honourable presiding certainly agrees with my colleagues that there is a technical aspect of the draft law, but we will not support it. I'll bring you why. For example, where are the parameters of effectiveness that we achieve by adopting the bill? For example, gross emissions of pollutants, how much do they decrease, what will be the projected parameters in the coming years? Or, for example, how will the number of enterprises that implement resources, energy-saving technologies, reduce these gross wastes? That's what's not in this document. Or also an important moment, we voted yesterday in the same way on the primary water users' pollution industry bill, and today it's actually an eco-friendly bill that aims to improve the environment. But it's not here, because we don't see, first, the mechanisms and the tools that will achieve the goals. One. The other one. We didn't see the efficiency parameters I was talking about. This is another moment. Third. We don't mind implementing European legislation and environmental directives that apply to the environment. It's also about the quality of the water in question, about reducing emissions into the environment, and a number of other things. But it's not here. And most importantly, yesterday I was talking about this, when we discuss the bill, there are no fiscal instruments to stimulate and give businesses resources to implement these technologies. In its time, it was estimated that 165 billion euros were needed to move to technical regulations and standards of the European Union. It's big money, it's not in the enterprises. So, from this point of view, both credit incentives and tax incentives were needed, and fiscally appropriate co-financing, and a number of other points to implement appropriate environmental policies. Then we'll have a concrete result on the way out. And certainly we can't just ignore that and ignore the green tariff that is now working for the European Union, we're going to lose our European exports. So we also have this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u116	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust". And then we move on to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u117	Colleagues, today's really manufacturing and mining industry is one of the biggest air pollutants, 35 percent and 18 percent respectively. And today we need to synchronize the environmental protection of industrial wastes with European standards. And it's really a technical bill, it corrects disagreements. It's also about Ukraine's commitment to the world community, and these changes to Ukraine's Air Protection Act simply systematize and order what exists now. So these are registers, reports, obligations to reduce the use of ozone -depleting substances as defined in the Law on the Control of Economic Activity. Therefore, this law must be supported in the first, in principle, and in general immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready? Not really. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 16 of the Act on Air Protection of Ukraine on the regulation of ozone-depleting activities and fluted greenhouse gases (registration No. 4259). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:42:26]] For 294 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (Registration No. 4248, 4248-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:43:02]] For 231 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u119	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Dmitrovitch Grivko, is invited to attend. Please, Sergey Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u120	The President-in-Office of the People's Parliament, I present to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act (No.4248). There is also an alternative draft of Law 4248-1. The question raised in these two bills was very important to the population, there were a lot of references from citizens, especially from the right-wing community in the Chernigian region, and thank them very much for their active public position. So the point of the bill. On January 1, 2021, the deadline for the establishment of natural gas units in the respective areas, gas meters for the population living in apartments and private homes, where gas is used only for cooking, came to an end. The adoption of the bill is proposed to protect the rights of consumers with regard to the provision of natural gas to prepare food and to eliminate the corresponding risks of gas shut-off by almost 80 percent of the population of the listed consumer category, not by gas counters, and the calculation of gas is very important for the country’s budget and for the development of the country. Thus, the basic and alternative bills continue to establish gas counters, but the alternative bill complements certain technical standards that make the bill a little bit better. Accordingly, the people's deputies, please support the alternative draft of Law 4248-1 on the basis and in general, the issue is very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov, author of the alternative bill. Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u122	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, two bills have been proposed to your attention. As my colleague said, they are practically identical. But Bill 4248-1 is more thorough and thorough. Filled in for the population. In five years, the gas distribution system has not installed these 3 million-dollar counters for the population, and since January 1, people have to install these counters and pay for them themselves. There have been many complaints that today, the gas distribution system requires a consumer to install the counters. We can't and we don't have the right to do that, to give today two more years as much as possible to set up these counters, and to allow today to solve people's issues, and, by the way, a state of 20 billion dollars of control (not loss, but control) of consumer gas. These counters are needed only by those people who are preparing food in their ovens today. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u123	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, Andriy Viktorovich Zupanin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u124	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services, at its meeting on 27 January 2021, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting of Natural Gas on the Dates for the Establishment of Natural Gas Accountants by National Deputy Sergei Grivko and the alternative introduced by National Deputy Sergei Shahov. The bill proposes to postpone the period by which natural gas is distributed in the relevant territory, which requires that gas meters be installed for the population living in apartments and private homes, where gas is used only for food preparation. I remind you that a valid standard for full population security for commercial gas accounting for natural gas operators was in place by January 1, 2021, but the counting process itself has not been completed, including the technical inability of some gas distribution companies. The Ministry of Energy of Ukraine, the National Commission for Energy and Utilities, expressed their support for the alternative bill (4248-1). In the course of the committee’s discussion of draft laws, the National MPs supported an alternative bill (4248-1). In view of what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (as regards the review of deadlines for establishing natural gas meters) (No. 4248-1), as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u125	Thank you, Andrey Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is there not? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Jani Vadimovni Zinkevich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u127	Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we discussed the faction about the adoption or non-admission of this law. We are well aware that lying is just convenient for the counters to be gone and that they are hovering on the volume of this gas. Now, as far as this issue is concerned so it doesn't affect the population, it's number one. The previous law stated that only those who refuse to establish counters are excluded. So first of all, the law enforcement authorities have to figure out why the lies, why the gas supply organizations haven't been able to set up those counters, whether it's been directed at this action to stop it all, to set up these counters, whether they really have people in their hands refusing to set these counters.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u129	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Mikhailovich Laby, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Andrew Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u131	Andrew Mikhailovich Gerus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, an extremely simple but very necessary bill. It goes on for two more years to allow gas distributors, so-called liars, to install counters at their own cost to Ukrainian gas consumers. Today, 98 percent of gas consumption is already with counters, but there are still 2 percent, and most of it is flats, where only gas stoves, especially in the city of Kiev and the city of Kharkiv, where counters still need to be added. This bill gives us two more years, and in those two years, no one has the right to shut down consumers, and liars have the right to set counters for the right gas consumers. So I ask you to support the committee's decision as a basis and as a whole, perhaps we should vote on it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u133	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Antonini Kerimovni Slavicki, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u134	I'll give you the word "Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u135	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, we are forced to pass this law now, because we cannot demand today that there be what is no more today. But I think the second reading needs to be done and appropriate sanctions are imposed that if our citizens are not provided with counters not at their own expense, I emphasize, then there should certainly be sanctions for those who have not been able to do so. And now we have to go to this postponing. But another question arises: Would such severe control and accounting be needed if domestic gas were still part of the people of Ukraine? And what we get is the gas that costs, the cost of which is about 1.5 thousand dollars, plus the profitability plus VAT plus even the rent tax. Although I don't understand why the people of Ukraine should pay rent on their own gas, which seems to belong to them above. So it goes like this: while the gas is in the top, it belongs to the Ukrainian people; and when it's raised from the top by government funds (this is done by the government company Crushing), it's already costing the commercial structure that sells it for $300 to $400. Where's the logic? I mean, honestly, this is all about bullying and robbing people, robbing those to whom this gas belongs. Well, when the predecessors did so, of course, but with us we gave gas to the people of Ukraine. To be honest, the same was true of the government of Tymoshenko. With Yuri Boyka, the gas cost $90. $90! That was 700 bucks at the time. You may have forgotten about these parameters. Therefore, Ukraine’s gas needs to be given to the people of Ukraine. So the gas is the people! And the counters are necessary, but the main thing is that the gas belongs to the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u137	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenka, faction of "The Fatherland". And then, colleagues, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, I see. Okay. And after that. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u138	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, First Deputy Head of the Energy Committee of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, this is not such a simple bill that my colleagues from the committee, including his head, want to present. First, I explain, I'm correcting the head of the committee, we have 2.1 million unaccounted households today, about 17 percent, not 2. The big problem is that half of them don't have individual counters, but they pay in multi-room buildings for house counters, for colporteur counters, where the grandmother pays 10-15 cubes, if she even consumes 2-3 on her own confort. And why won't Fatherland support this bill? Not because he's bad, because he's powerless, sorry, he's not making any decisions. For the first time, we gave a 12-year deadline for full accounting. The second time we continued this term in the 17th year, because on January 1st 18th, it ended. At that time, all over Ukraine there was a blockage of streets, when the oats really installed the house counters, and then they were saved. But I have a question: Why is there no calculation so far? Why didn't our dear committee, in which I have the privilege of working, find out, call on the carpet the National Energy Regulatory Commission, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Energy Minister, who's been gone for a year, the Naftogaz NAC, who benefits from all these equipment and schemes because he's got huge resources there? Why does it just take two or three years to wait and watch again? This is not the position of government officials, respected friends, and colleagues. If you just accept it like that, nothing will change. So let's figure out who's comfortable with it, who's keeping this corrupt scheme and who's the beneficiary of it, and then we'll make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, then Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov. Will they still be willing? Please, Taras Ivanovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u140	The majority talk about people’s problems with such ease and then with the same heroism, they put aside and do not solve these problems. Colleagues, don't we need to know the actual volumes of natural gas consumption by setting up counters for people to eliminate abuse in this area? Don't we know that people overpaid, and individual non-lethal gas suppliers and gas distributors make twice or three? And once again, we're going to propose that we cancel the set of counters. We must complete the counting of our citizens without delay. And we can't afford to hear the argument that they don't have enough money. Friends, over the years, the cost of establishing counters has been earmarked for tariffs, and you know that for natural gas. However, the calculation was not complete. So let's not piss people off or fool people because they won't forgive you for this election. Thank you. We're against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov. And then we go to the vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the essence of the bill is to remove the yoke from people today, which will be from January 1st, almost half a month ago, by setting the counters at the expense of the consumer. Delay the deadline and make an audit of the program, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy. For five years, counters have not been installed, and colleagues speak correctly. Next. We've got to work out a bill on fraud in general. Why should people pay for the transit of gas from their pipes? Grandmother paid for the structure of the pipe, and then she gave it up -- and today she's skinned ten times for the transit of gas through her pipes. Please tell the veterans, the Afghans, the Chernobyls, the pensioners today will pay for the pipes they were building today. Why do oligarchs profit from lying? In general, it's a lie to take back the state! There has to be a monopoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I wanted to ask you, we had a proposal for a committee to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Then we'll vote for the basis, and then we'll look at it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u144	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (as regards the time-limits for the establishment of counters for natural gas consumers) (Registration No. 4248-1). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:59:44]] For 279 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal remedies, draft Law 4248. [[B in m in s a l in]] Only they didn't mind! [[B in m in s a l in]] Two factions against. Okay. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for preparing for the second reading and submission of rights and proposals to the bill, registration number 4248-1. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:00:40]] For 271 Decision taken. The next question is the draft law on private detective activity (registration number 3010, 3010-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:01:11]] For 253 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Galusko Mikola Leonidovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u145	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I would like to present to you a bill on private detective activity (registration number 3010, registered on 04.02.2020). In my opinion, this bill meets today’s objectively existing needs in the market for detective services, which are still unregulated. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in a large number of countries around the world, private detective activity is recognized at the national level and sufficiently regulated by national legislation. The presence in the country of a legitimate private detective institution contributes to the overall recovery of the criminal situation, increases the possibility of society taking part in the fight against crime, and, at the same time, relieves the police of the need to perform many minor and inequitable functions. In Ukraine to this day, private detective activity is not officially recognized, although other fellow citizens are involved in private detective activity. According to unofficial reports, there are now about 2,000 private investigators and private detective agencies in all regions of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of this law will allow for the legalization of a detective activity that is actually being carried out, recognized by society and has a demand for the establishment of forms and ways of controlling the State’s conduct, and a significant increase in the ability of citizens and economic subjects in Ukraine to defend their legitimate interests, constitutional rights and freedoms. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u146	National Deputy of Ukraine Zimbaluk Mikhailovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u147	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, the National Deputies! The Supreme Council, more than ever, is now approaching the adoption of such an important bill on detective private activity. A little bit of history. In 2017 the Supreme Council of the previous call was still adopting this bill in the first reading and in general, and the then President promised this bill. And the main reason was that, according to the then basic version of the law, the Ministry of Justice was determined by the authority that licensed and controlled this activity. And the President then thinks that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as the state authority of the central executive branch, is carrying out a search and search activity, and it is he who has to coordinate and issue licences for this kind of activity. We registered an alternative bill with colleagues. In fact, in the preceding summons, it was the authorship of a committee headed by a colleague of the Cosemakin faction. We're not fundamentally against the basic bill. For us, as authors who are of different factions and experts, it is important for us that in principle such a bill be that today thousands of law enforcement officers who are retired can carry out detective private activities on the basis of existing legislation. Because I think the alternative bill has the right to life, but if the sessional room is identified and accepted as the main one, we will support it and we will apply for the second reading. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u148	Thank you, Mikhailovich. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Galina Olegna Mikhayluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u149	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, after examining the basic and alternative bills, the Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee, agreed on the need to legalize the private detectives' institution. This is an important step towards harmonising our legislation with appropriate European legislation, since in most countries of the European Union special legislation is already in place that regulates private detective activity. The main difference between Bills 3010 and 3010 prim.1 is the issue of the control of private detectives and the authorised regulator, who gives a certificate of the right to engage in detective activities. So in Bill 3010, the corresponding functions are assigned to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and in Bill 3010 Prime 1 to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Having considered and studied all the comments and suggestions, as well as the comments made by the relevant ministries, scientific institutions, and departments, the committee believes that Bill 3010 prem. 1 needs further work. Thus, the alternative bill does not provide sufficient grounds for defining the Ministry of Internal Affairs by an authorized authority, since the work of the detectives does not pose risks to the maintenance of public security and the rule of law. Therefore, this entrepreneurial activity is of a mediocre nature and does not apply to the functions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In addition, the provision of private detective services by nature is part of the area of civil relations. The drafting of the basic bill under number 3010 is more consistent with the existing needs of the private investigators' market and deserves support. In view of the above, the committee approved the decision to recommend bill 3010 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading and bill 3010 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 1 overruled. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u150	Thank you, Galina Light. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Yes. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Anatoly Igorovich Urbanski, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u151	Please pass the word to Lubinci Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u152	Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u153	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! In general, the parliamentary group "For the Future" will vote in favour of the bill proposed by the committee. We agree that if society wants to legalize detective activity, we can agree. At the same time, we have a lot of questions about the proposed bill, which we are going to submit through the law enforcement mechanism, to change. I want you to hear it. For example, we don't understand why, for example, if you're comparing detectives to lawyers, for example, you get criminal responsibility for disciplining detective information, while a lawyer has disciplinary responsibility. That's the first one. Next. We don't understand at all how you can write at the level of the law that you can't question a detective as a witness. So those law enforcement officers who are investigating any case right now, they're doing their search and search, they can be questioned as a witness, and you're giving the same authority to the detectives, and then you can't even call them to court as a witness. You're creating a mechanism where everyone involved in some criminal activity will automatically become a detective, and then they won't even be brought to trial. Besides, we don't quite understand the logic behind the state oversight of a detective agency, but the actual detectives are given the same rights as ordinary Ukrainian citizens, who, for example, represent people in the courts. So there's a lot of questions, but in general, we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u154	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u155	Please, Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u156	Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u157	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! I want to remind you of a great movie called Schindler's List. Thus, there is such a expression that the triumph of evil is the inaction of a good man. So when we have good people in the leadership of anti-corruption bodies, then we don't need private investigators. And now, of course, it is, because there's the complete inaction of anti-corruption organs, except for the NABU, that Ustinov wouldn't say anything. Yeah, I'll keep going. So, thanks to some private detectives, we learned about Veluru's affairs in Parliament, along with a "looker" behind Kiev. That's why, of course, I urge you to support the private detectives bill so that they can investigate the "watchers" and the other corrupts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u158	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u159	Please give the floor to Mama Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u160	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! The faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill, "for." Why? Because in my opinion, first reading gives us a start and a decision: whether a detective's institute in criminal proceedings should be or should not be. I ask you to support this initiative. I think the alternative bill is more solid, more meaningful, but the committee has decided to reject it. But I think you can sort out the situation, make the detectives' institute and get it started. Why? There are two aspects. Aspect number one. Each relative has his own personal contact with the police. There's a lot of pressure on the tracker. In fact, there is a lack of time to investigate quality conduct, and some skills are lacking. At present, such a branch of experts has been formed that can work faithfully, establish objective facts that can grow through a law firm, through legal associations into evidence, and be used, and note, to establish an objective truth on one occasion or another. This institution, once entrusted with authority, will create healthy competition for law enforcement authorities, and then the law enforcement authorities will automatically reach out and still win competition and do their job more professionally. We're going to support this bill, and between the first and second readings, I think we can level this out, make this institution more effective and get it to work so that it works for Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u162	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, is it necessary at all to have a law that regulates the activity, indeed, of an institution that is in fact already in Ukraine? Of course, yes. Thus, both the main alternative and the alternative came into existence. And we agree that a new legal institution is actually being established in Ukraine that will guarantee the constitutional guarantees of a person, the rights of a citizen, other subjects of farming to protect their legal rights and interests. And this is certainly a positive one. Therefore, there is a need for a detailed consideration of both the basic bill and the alternative bill. Because, let's say there are general moments that relate, for example, to keeping a single register of such detectives, it relies on the Ministry of Justice. And let's say, for example, the order of preparation, the teaching, the issuance of permits such as testimonials, the control of detectives, the options are different. Some suggest that this should be relied on by the Ministry of Justice, there is a possibility that it would be under the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Clearly, then, in preparing for the second reading, these bills need to be carefully worked on. The only thing I want to emphasize is that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority determines that, in both the main and the alternative, unfortunately, private detectives do not have any special rights that ordinary citizens cannot realize, in information gathering, well, that sort of thing. And as far as collecting information by our media outlets is concerned, because it can also be used to make it impossible for them to collect information. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u164	All those who wish to speak? Sumar Victoria Petrovna is motivated. After that, Taras Petrovich Tarasenko. Then we go to the vote. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the European Solidarity faction will also support this bill, because in European countries this tool works very effectively: there are 35,000 detectives in the United States, there are 10,000 in Britain. In Ukraine there are over 2,000 of them, written in a special KWED as a business activity. And it's obvious that we need to legalize this institution and make it work within the framework and work for human rights, not the other way around. And that's where it's important to put all these fuses. So our faction will also be actively involved in the drafting of this bill for the second reading. But this institution, because it exists, we just bring this law to an existing reality. And that is the reality in Ukraine when former law enforcement officers can legally be called private investigators and already carry out their activities in accordance with Ukrainian laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u166	Taras Petrovich Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u167	Hello, everyone! I also want to say in support of this bill that an institution like private detectives already exists. Many lawyers now use their services. We must legitimize their activities in order to make the work easier for both lawyers and courts. Private investigators can do their work effectively and collect evidence that will be effectively examined by all courts in Ukraine. I also want to make a statement because the controlling and regulating body should be the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine itself, given that private detectives will not depend on the police, on the IMF, and thus will be able to carry out their duties more independently, and actually collect evidence without fear of getting their license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u168	Let's go to the vote. Prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Private Detective Activity (Registration No. 3010). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:20:02]] For 334 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the characteristics of the drafting of the protocol on administrative misconduct in respect of non-compliance with statutory deadlines (terms) to respond to a request or request by the Ukrainian National Deputy (3503). Need to discuss this bill? Let's vote a lot. We have Gerasimov wants to speak. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[13:20:58]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Arthur Volodymyrovich, perhaps without discussion? Let's do one. Let's give Arthur Volodymyrovich two minutes, he'll act and vote? Okay? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. Please, please, we're listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u169	Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev. But before that, I would like to add a very simple question. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u170	No, no, that's when you come in. We're listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u171	No questions asked. Mr. Chairman, there are no technical laws in this session hall. What you vote for in this room affects the lives and well-being of people, affects national security, affects the fate of our nation. And when you propose to vote very often without discussion, I'd like to remind you how many times the opposition in this room showed the monotonousness of Mr. Greensky, when, in the form of a fine name of the law, under the beautiful first paragraphs, you hid really corrupt equipment, really negative for the state a string of laws. And that's why it needs to be discussed -- in order for the opposition, and the majority, including the majority, to discuss it, to be able to make an informed decision, not to make a decision after making a decision, hand-drawling, seeming like it was done by accident. And by the way, I'd like to remind you once again of the decision of the European Parliament, in which they said what your so-called so-called, I would like to stress, the so-called "turbourist." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u172	Arthur Volodymyrovich, first of all, it's the first reading, there's no right here. Second, we should read the laws, not just discuss them. I'll bet you a vote. Replica, okay. You don't have a replica, you're not Arthur Volodymyrovich. The replica. Turn on Gerasimov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u173	Dear Mr. Head, when we talk about the adoption of laws, that is to say, so that the non-professional authority, which unfortunately we have today in Ukraine, does not make mistakes, and a bill is being considered by anyone on the committee. It's done that we get the conclusion of scientific expertise, of legal administration before second reading. The first reading is being done, where the bill is being discussed, where the entire session hall is being exchanged, because experts today are much more in opposition than they are in power. And besides, finally. You know, when you comment on the opposition, don't forget to comment on the actions of your faction that you've brought into Parliament, "The Servants of the People," for example, Mr. Bujansky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u174	I'll remind you that you called me, so I answered, but you don't remember. It's your right, it's okay, I'll survive. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of draft Law registration number 3503. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:24:38]] For 311 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the design, adoption and implementation of aviation regulations in Ukraine (registration number 3683). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[13:25:23]] For 255 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Zivický Dmitry Aleksijovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u175	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the design, adoption and implementation of the aviation rules of Ukraine (registration number 3683). The bill proposes to ensure the implementation of national legislation for Ukraine, European Aviation Safety Agency documents for EASA, which lay down requirements for the certification, supervision and operation of aircraft and are regulatory and technical documents. These include certification requirements, acceptable methods of determining conformity, and management materials. The aviation rules of Ukraine are drawn up in accordance with EASA regulations that set out requirements for the certification, supervision and operation of aircraft and are regulatory and technical documents, are not regulatory in nature and are therefore not subject to State registration at the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The adoption of appropriate changes will simplify the procedure for the development, adoption and implementation of Ukrainian aviation rules, allowing for the effective introduction into national legislation of the European Union of civil aviation acts and the proper implementation by Ukraine of international civil aviation obligations. The possibility of adopting the above - mentioned acts in the original language is anticipated. This is done in the same way as the analogy of national standards, article 7 of the Ukrainian Standardization Act. The implementation of this legislative initiative is foreseen in paragraph 4 of the Plan of Action for the implementation of Ukraine's common aviation space with the European Union and its member states, the Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Agreement on the approximation of the airworthiness certification system. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u176	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure to Pavlovski Petr Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u177	Good afternoon, colleagues! Pavlovsky Peter, "Serial of the People" faction. You have proposed a bill that provides for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the order of development, adoption and implementation of Ukrainian aviation rules. The project was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure considered the draft law and recommended that it be adopted on first reading as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided that the draft law would have no impact on the budget. The main scientific and expert office comments on the bill, in particular on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy made a similar observation. In view of the comments made at the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, a meeting was held with the State Language Commissioner, which resulted in an agreement that the preparation of the draft law for second reading would take into account comments regarding the exclusion of part one of the first part from the text of the draft text with regard to the amendment to part one of article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a State language". Thus, the Committee, taking into account the positions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, approved the decision to adopt the draft law in the first reading on the basis of humanities and information policy. So please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u178	Thank you, Peter Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u179	Please give my word to my colleague Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u180	Princess Mikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, this is not a law on aviation rules -- it's a law repealing the Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. And here's why. The bill proposes to amend article 13 of the Law on State Language, which regulates the rule of law. Today the norm indicates that the language of legislation is the national language, and this bill proposes to add "unless otherwise established by law". The proposed changes to the Law on State Language are of a general nature, and they are not limited to English - speaking aviation rules. It's proposed to make a lattice that actually allows the adoption of legislation and the introduction of business in public and local authorities in any language. There is no way to vote for this bill in the first, in any reading. Any argument made by committee representatives that this rule will be corrected before the second reading does not give rise to any confidence. Because we talked about if the committee excluded this rule before the first reading, obviously we would vote for it. This was not done on purpose. Anyone who votes for this today will vote to stain the memory of all those who have fought for the Ukrainian language throughout history. In such subtle ways, laws that are supposed to have neutral names try to make points that question both our culture and our statehood. Be alert, don't be mistaken, we're voting with a red button! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u182	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u183	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, look what an interesting day it is. The day begins with the fact that we voted with almost 300 votes in the session room on the Order relating to the Dignity Revolution, which refers to the memory where in the decree we point out that the Dignity Revolution was one of the factors behind the nation’s creation in Ukraine. And now there's a bill that's supposed to apply to aviation, which is one of the factors behind the creation of Ukraine's state language and its development, and it's completely flattened in the aviation sector. So what are we fighting for? I am convinced that such bills, which appear in the session hall, appear by accident, because those who work not to fortify the Ukrainian State, but to destroy it, to weaken it, to ensure that there is no Ukrainian language in Ukraine, give different methods, which are veiled, where they show for all good, but when you look at the details, and know that the devil is in detail, it goes, in fact, to the key, why such bills appear. The history of this bill is not new, and we know very well in Fatherland that there have been negotiations to remove a norm from this bill that is absolutely not relevant to the development of the aviation sector. By removing this rule "Paternity" will support the bill, and as long as it's there, we won't vote for it. Because the task of the Ukrainian Parliament is to have the national language in all areas of Ukrainian life, in all areas -- whether it's economics or energy or the aviation sector -- be dominant and ensure its development. This is the task of parliamentarians and the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u184	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u185	Please pass on the word Klimenko Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u186	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u187	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Colleagues, I want to say and support colleagues who have spoken to this, that the issue of the Ukrainian language should be removed from this bill. So, of course, we'll hold on as long as this point is there. But I want to point out that there's a systemic issue with the use of Russian in our airspace. I've repeatedly asked the Ministry of Infrastructure to change Order 486 from 10.06. In 2004, and maintain radiotelephone communication in airspace exclusively in the national language. What I've been doing for a year now, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the State Service has been writing notes that say it's on time, we can't, we don't want it any more. I pay attention, colleagues, you, the majority, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure: please enter the national language, not only do not take the national language, but also enter it into all the orders of the Ministry of Infrastructure, radiotelephone, airports, airports, airports, and airports for the arrival of Ukrainian aircraft, as well as on airplanes. Because we often fly and hear that all messages are in Russian. Please approach this systemically. Thank you. And I'm going to make that request again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u188	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, well, idiotism must be a limit. So let's get out of the United Nations -- there's an official Russian language, let's get out of the OSCE -- there's an official Russian language. Well, that's how it historically happened. In international practice, Russian language is also used – this practice. Let us ban all from flying to Ukraine who do not know the English language. Do you hear what you're calling here? Well, it's getting tough, well, it's not something else to call it. I feel like a total drop in ratings makes me grab anything. I remember "ArmoVir" again. Well, it didn't help Peter, and it won't help you. Think about people. Think about the tariffs. Think about pensions. Think of the wages. And I already have the impression that in a kindergarten called "The Servant of the People" you already need a tutor or a tutor, choose. Well, you know, you're already reminding us of those kids playing in the sandbox. It's beautiful, but every now and then you find a grenade and you blow it up, and you don't know where the fragments are going to fly. Therefore, I would like to be very responsible for the issues related to international cooperation. These are standards that have come together independently of us. And we have to count them, and instead of increasing our presence, increasing our commercial presence, increasing our commercial and other flights, we're doing everything we can to get Ukraine to fly. They're on their way, they're on their way. So think of the people to whom you are obligated to serve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u190	Who else wants to speak? For reasons already requested from the Servant of the People, I'm sorry. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u191	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we can't get to the ground. I invite everyone in my house to the Lugansk region, to take a walk on those roads where cowboys like graves, I don't joke. Trooticke, Bilukurakine, Svatov, Milov, Bilovodsk, Markovka – go for a drive and see how people live – survive. An unbuilt 37 - mile [37 km] railway line is not connected to a peaceful Ukraine; 7 - year - olds are at war; they are suffering from farming; they are suffering from agribusiness. And today, there's this disgusting thing in that office that's doing nothing, robbing money on the road. To review the immediate roads that were built in that year, and to see what was done in Sevierodonetsky, people are already teaching in Facebook. And you're in the air, in the language. Learn to work on the earth. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u192	Pavlovsky Peter Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, as a member of the committee, I would like to draw your second attention to the fact that the second reading of the bill will be amended accordingly, and all language-related issues will be removed from the bill. I would also like to point out that the development of the aviation sector is important for our country, and the implementation of the relevant aviation rules is important. They are accepted either in English or in Russian. We're going to fix the bill for the second reading and we're going to write the rules in Ukrainian, but let's take the bill as a basis today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u194	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the order of development, adoption and implementation of the aviation rules of Ukraine (registration number 3683). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:41:34]] For 206 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of Bill No. 3683. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:42:07]] For 245 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Income Taxes in the form of payment for the production and/or distribution of advertising and improvement of tax-added tax on non-resident electronic services to natural persons (registration No. 4184). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:43:00]] For 235 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, we're proposing a law in the media called the Google Tax Act. It's not really about any new taxes. The bill does not propose to introduce any new tax. However, there is an unacceptable situation in our country where the value added tax is not paid by electronic services to companies that are not residents of our country. And it's not that these companies don't want to pay taxes, but the mechanism in our VAT law is missing. And to pay for VAT, they have to register in Ukraine as residents, that is, change their resident status. And in fact, that brings them additional negative tax effects. They don't, they don't do taxes. The bill proposes the introduction of a simple mechanism for taxation of added value to nonresidents. It provides an opportunity to register them in the payer’s electronic office remotely, in English, to pay the tax in currency, without actually being present in Ukraine. Such a tax, such a mechanism, worked more faithfully in 83 jurisdictions around the world, and in a war - torn country, it does not work. The warring country does not receive at least 3 billion dollars in money to the state budget as a result of the failure to pay VAT from electronic services. I emphasize that this is purely about services, only services that are accounted for cashlessly by our consumers, not goods. Moreover, it is unacceptable that residents of Ukraine should pay VAT by providing advertising services and that non-residents — huge transnational companies — should not. In drafting the bill, we consulted OECD experts, with representatives of large transnational companies that provide electronic services. We've done enough work. And in fact, this mechanism, it's supported by all of us, including business associations in the field of IT within our state. We need to establish a level playing field for residents and non-residents in Ukraine. What the law is proposing is the abolition of the tax on repatriation from advertising services. In fact, this tax has brought into darkness a business that provides advertising services for today in Ukraine. It's archaic. It is not clear why other repatriation tax services do not work, and 20 percent of these services need to be managed. We propose to cancel this tax by actually replacing it with a simple VAT payment mechanism from the relevant services. And for the second reading, I propose that -- we've consulted colleagues -- the benefits of taxing e-books, for example, as well as the benefits of taxing educational services so that we don't have any warnings, we didn't have any obstacles to Ukraine being the most educated state in the world. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u196	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u197	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, colleagues, this bill, it needs, in my opinion, a more thorough discussion, because we need to understand the consequences of adopting this legislative initiative. The right intentions. Let's give more money to the state budget for, as the author of the bill said, that during this difficult situation, including the social situation in the country, we have the money to implement and pay from the state budget social guarantees for our Ukrainian citizens. But it's, you know, like a coin, so we have a coin on one side and it's on the other. On the other hand, what's going to happen? It's going to happen for the final consumer, in my opinion, to increase the value of the product. I mean, when in our country right now people can't afford to have little babies, buy regular baby strollers, because now the market is so complex, they're buying new ones, they can't buy new ones, and the cost of these goods and services is going to increase. So let us approach this issue wisely and do our best to prevent the increase in tax burden on these transnational corporations that provide electronic services from increasing the cost of goods and services. Because the right approach really is to think about our money being filled, but it shouldn't be at the expense of our Ukrainian citizens. So let's support the legislative initiative, then have a thorough discussion of the state of our country right now, because people can't buy goods, and entrepreneurs can barely survive. So the right approach will be if we take the matter very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u198	Blue Oleg Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u199	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u200	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, generally the idea of this law is positive, because if you look at why a taxi registered in Holland doesn't pay taxes when you sit there, it's cheaper, or it's in Estonia (and it's real companies that work for us, you see them), and Ukrainian firms provide services more expensive. Where Do Ukrainian Consumers Go? To those companies that pay taxes in other countries. I worked as a journalist before becoming a politician, and journalists live by advertising. Why is the advertising paid abroad not taxed and the advertising paid in Ukraine taxed? From this point of view, this law is absolutely right and positive. We have international experience. In various countries, from January 15th, Italy, France, the Czech Republic introduced taxes on services provided abroad. Switzerland is 15, Norway is 11, Turkey is 18. Countries in Asia, Japan, South Korea, countries such as Georgia, Moldova, Kazakhstan, even Belarus, also take such a tax. Clearly, then, this law is absolutely positive. Another point is that this law may need further work. The first reading of "European Solidarity" will support this bill, because we support the creation of Ukrainian jobs, and we support Ukrainian firms working. I've seen the findings of many international experts. The American Chamber of Commerce, for example, supports this bill, which, by the way, represents the interests of these many sellers and providers of services from the world's largest economy. But he also makes some comments, and these comments can be taken into account in the second reading. So in the first reading, please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u202	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u203	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague after the faction of Mr. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u204	National Deputy Kabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u205	Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u206	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. The Bureau, my dear colleagues, let's say that we really think that we can force companies like Google, Amazon to take and register here, in Ukraine, to pay for the added value. This bill, unlike what was written in the explanatory note to this bill, has nothing to do with the European Union's rules, which changed the rules for determining the place of supply of electronic services from where the supplier is registered, as proposed by this bill, to where the advertiser is registered. Secondly, this bill is an absolute and complete set of tax principles for IT companies, which were introduced in 2017 in countries such as the Russian Federation and Belarus. And even now, if you haven't adopted this bill, let's fantasize with you and look at the experience of these countries that have already introduced the electronic services tax. For example, the Russian Federation. A similar tax is introduced in 2017. And what do we see? That Amazon had increased its electronic services to 18 percent for ordinary people before the tax was introduced. By 2019, when the Russian Federation had increased this tax from 18 percent to 20 percent, Facebook had already reported an increase of 20 percent in its services. Like Belarus. This tax has been in place since 2018. And absolutely all the applications that are in the App Store since the introduction of this tax, they have also gone up 20 percent. And the last. Let us turn with you to the experience of France. In 2019 the President of France also introduces a similar tax, but immediately he receives an answer from his colleague in the United States that no such tax should be imposed, because we will also introduce an appropriate tax on French products.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u207	Shapovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u208	Please pass the word to Lubin Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u209	Again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u210	Please pass the word to the Lubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u211	No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u212	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, do we all understand that the market for these services exists? There is. Consumers pay for these services at their own expense? They're paying. Why should these companies not pay taxes in Ukraine? It seems to us that the parliamentary group "For the Future" is a perfectly logical, correct story. The fact that this will certainly lead to an increase in pay for these services, yes. We all realize that transnational corporations won't pay off their profits, they'll try to translate it into a consumer. But I totally don’t understand the speaker who said that, remember, young families can’t buy wheelchairs right now. Yes, Your Honor, these are electronic services. If there is no money, people don't order electronic services. It is not bread, it is not milk, it is something a young Ukrainian family can live without. And when it chooses whether there is enough money in the family budget or not, it can be saved. These are Google e-services, YouTube won't order. And if companies are now using it and paying for it, surely the government budget of Ukraine should get its share in taxes. That's why we're supporting this initiative, and I'm absolutely also going to deny that transnational corporations, like Google, are already registered in Ukraine, they get official taxes in Ukraine and they have to pay taxes for it. So the parliamentary group "For the Future" will vote and support this legislative initiative in the first reading, of course, we have an observation and we will make amendments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u213	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u214	Thank you, Mr. Head. There are, of course, positive points about how appropriate services will be implemented and taxed. However, I think a very important point is that when we talk about services and services, still 20 percent of them don't come out of the air. And when they say we're going to raise up to 3 billion, believe me, it's going to be on the end of the customer of this service or the service. This time. The other one. With regard to such a priority, there is a payment of a compulsory VAT. So I have a question, and why do we have individual companies, for example, paying VAT at a low rate? Or there are a number of companies that don't have VAT at all. That's what it is today, and it was happening in this Supreme Council, in this vocation. So when we talk about filling the budget, overcoming the deficit, reducing the amount of borrowing and a number of other things, I think we have to balance the taxation of all spheres of activity, not just selectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u215	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u216	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, everyone who works in our country, our foreign partners, should pay taxes. And we also have to give the benefits to get Donbas, Donetsk and Luganos back. Bill 2070 on free economic zones has long been registered. And when the local elections were held, the question was also asked by a majority in the election whether it should be done or not. I'm going to say, to involve an investor, we need to be able to develop, and so do those areas. Even though one handful of transatlantic companies will enter Donbas, the war will end. If these huge monopolies can place billions of dollars there. Therefore, it is necessary to give everyone the opportunity to develop, and Ukraine will also develop. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u217	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, if you haven't decided how to vote for this law, I'll give you a few arguments why we should vote in favour. We all promised to create more jobs in Ukraine, and it's this law that makes equal rules for taxation. And it's normal for a Ukrainian company, like a foreign company, to pay the same amount of taxes in our country. We all promised that we would not introduce a new tax, and this law is not implemented. VAT. It's the same thing that we pay several times every day, just now it's going to be paid on the Internet as it was needed, as Ukrainian companies are paying. We all promised to consult business. I talked to three business associations personally, they said they were supporting this law. And most of all, we all promised to support culture. And it's this law that cancels the advertising tax for 20 percent, which will help our cultural market. So please support this law and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-17-m0.u219	I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of draft Law registration number 4184. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:00:51]] For-286 Decision taken. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
