ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, please prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that when you start registering, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button or the first button on the left and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration. People please. Check for slot cards. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up. Please register, colleagues. [[10:03:26]] There are 184 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Danube Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u2	It's a suburban.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u3	The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u4	Honorable Presidium, National Deputies, Ukrainian Citizens! Very soon Vladimir Zelensky will mark the equator of his presidency, and more precisely the equator of his single rule. Today, opposition and civil society have every reason to talk about the usurpation of power by President Zelenski. Because, for a hundred percent, its Attorney-General, its head of the BSS, led by the former veterinarian of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council, a manual majority, led by the Office of the President, has led Ukraine from the parliamentary and presidential republic to become the President of the Republic. The actions of Zelensky, who in an unconstitutional way extended the mandate of the National Security and Defence Council, by creating a repressive and reprisal machine from the coordinating body, threaten the parliamentary system, Ukraine's independent judicial system, undermine the constitutional system of Ukraine. During the years of Zelensky’s reign, prices, tariffs, the wealth of his immediate surroundings, the wages of law enforcement officers, increased. At the same time, after the end of the era of declared "the age of poverty," there was an era of poverty and begging. Little wonder, then, that nearly two thirds of Ukrainian citizens say that Ukraine is developing in the wrong direction. This opinion is maintained by 72.8 percent of Ukrainian citizens. Mr. President, this is a terrible figure because at the beginning of your cadence, 57 percent of Ukrainian citizens claimed that Ukraine was developing in the right direction. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, in your pre-election program, you fed the people with stories about the country of your dream. At the same time, you built a country where the Donbas bloodshed continues and the salutations are fired on the day of your origins. You have built a country where, at the expense of your grandmother’s community, you have not only a heart attack but a stroke. You've built a country where it's not mind, education, talent and conscience, it's a community business in 95 blocks. Mr. President, you haven't done anything in 2.5 years to stop. Return peace to Donbassa. Instead, you have turned the car completely against your only opponent, Victor Medvedchuk's opposition leader, whose ideas about the government, the sewing of the country, the mental return of the people of Donbas, you have received support and become President of Ukraine. But you fear this truth, and the people of Ukraine need to know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u5	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u6	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, representatives of the government! Today, we, Marjorie deputies from various parts of our country, are paying attention to the fact that in the autumn yard you've all experienced the first colds. The issue of the heating season, which is far from near, is acute. Of course, like good owners in private homes, they are already breaking their heads on how to heat up their homes, local self - government agencies are already breaking their heads on how to pay for gas to serve heat in apartment buildings in your cities and towns, and all of this is a major problem. Today, however, my colleagues from the Trust MP group and I would like to draw your attention to a very disturbing moment. Religious organizations have found themselves in an extremely difficult situation, for the pandemic has caused people to avoid gathering together as much as possible, sadly, in order to pray. And now that gas prices have tripled, our priests, whose shoulders are basically responsible — spiritual care over all of us, unfortunately, are forced to break their heads over how these colds at such high tariffs on gas, heat the churches with energy. It's a very big problem. So today, my colleagues and I are looking to the government to make changes and to help religious organizations with the price of energy, gas. This will help us to heat up the churches at a cold time of the year, and we, along with you and all believers of various faiths, will gather together to pray and to be spiritually restored during this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u7	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. Then we have Stepa Sergey Sergiyyyovich, but he gives the word to Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich. Please, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u8	Good afternoon, fellow workers and the public! I would like to ask you an urgent question about the health of more than 10,000 children in Ukraine. As a Ukrainian national deputy, I was asked by individual parents, as well as representatives of the Public Organization Dia Borispil, to report to the Ministry of Health that the rights of minors with disabilities are being violated in the Borispol region, namely, children with first-type sugar diabetes. Sugar diabetes remains a serious medical and social problem, especially the child’s insulin - dependent diabetes. The lives of such children depend on the constant supervision and assistance of outsiders. This requires regular use of various medical devices: glucometers, pen syringes, insulin pumps and other devices. The medical protocol states that the use of insulin in a continuous way brings first - type diabetes to a severe form of diabetes. The severity of the disease and the high degree of dependence on foreign aid grant the right to establish the disability of subgroup A. However, the majority of the medical advisory boards refuse children with insulin-dependent diabetes in their disability is due to misunderstandings by doctors working on these committees of Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 917. It is this decree that regulates the setting up of children with disabilities. Obviously, this decree requires further clarification and further clarification. As I said, such sick children in Ukraine almost 10,000, the disability of subgroup A has only 3 percent of them, only in some cities and areas of Ukraine do doctors establish the legal disability for children and children receive sufficient state and social assistance, which is now sufficient to obtain the necessary cost materials to control the disease. The situation needs to be changed, my friends. Without the necessary social assistance, children today who are deprived of adequate compensation for their illness are quick to face chronic complications. If these children are not adequately assisted today, many of them are expected to undergo haemodialysis and kidney transplants tomorrow, amputation of the limbs and eye surgery, and other complications. Regarding the Borispil region, I note that there are 61 children with diabetes in 11 schools. Sadly, though, not all of these schools have medical personnel, teachers do not have primary care skills for such children. Although there must be a glucometer in schools, there is no pharmacy. It's worth thinking about. They are beautiful smart children, many of whom learn differently and dream about their future, want to be students, learn a profession, work, and live in favor of their own Ukraine. Our job is to help them do this, especially not to be indifferent. This statement I am asking you to consider an official appeal to the Ministry of Health, requiring me to finalize my already mentioned Decree No. 917. The State is obliged to care for sick children and to provide them with conditions for a full and happy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the words of the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Ivanovich Rušššin, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Pippa Natalia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u10	Good afternoon. Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Justice Union. Dear Ukrainians and respected colleagues, each one of you has been to school, studied, learned the truth. And many of you have children who go to school, the truth. Who do you remember best from school? They're good teachers. And who do you mention with the greatest disappointment are the teachers who taught worse? So I'm holding a budget for 2022 and I don't know whether to laugh or cry, because there's actually nothing in the teacher training. Tomorrow, next year, we have the whole country, all of our students will go to the 5th class of the New Ukrainian School, which is the first time they'll go to the high school. And there's very little cost to train teachers, just like last year. Teachers of subjects are much more than teachers of primary classes. To do that, we need to prepare a teacher. I'm also talking about an increase in wages. They are only increased by 8 percent, and this is not enough even for an annual increase in the wages of the tariff network twice a year by 5 percent each. We're in a state of war, I'll remind you, and a country that wants to be strong and successful has to invest in culture and education. I'm going to remind you once again that we have zero bracelets at the library. I realize that the idea is to change libraries and transfer them to local self-government. But there is definitely a need for funding. These are things that we simply have to find the money for — our education, our culture, our children. But what do we also have? We also have that we're preparing again, and now there's a lot of questions about distance education, but we still don't have electronic textbooks. I remind you, electronic textbooks are not those that are in pdf format on the Institute's website for modernizing the content of education, they're those that you can use online that also conduct evaluations. I also see in the budget: 300 million added to the President's Ford and another 100 million added to the so-called Presidential University. In our country, more than 200 universities, we need to focus, not on the number of universities, but on the quality of universities. And the money from this conditional Presidential University is exactly what to put into the training of teachers and teachers. Because, as we know, it's the frame that solves everything. And we just have to put it into education, because it's not something we can save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u11	Thank you. We're next on the list of national MPs, Marcuk Igor Petrovich, but he's handing over the word to Dirdin Maxim Evgenovich. Please, Maxim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u12	Thank you. Colleagues, I have initiated the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the unlawful actions of officials of the State Reserve and state enterprises that are part of its administration. The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine was published on November 6, 20th, on the results of the audit of the Reserve. As a result, the State Reserve stores over 100 million bracelets and 200 million bracelets of unsupplied food items in the food group. According to the results of the information checks, the total number of crop thefts between 2020 and 2021 in the Reserve system is about 110,000 tons. Regarding the financial and economic activities of the State Reserve companies, the amount of violations amounted to 31.4 million dollars, and violations of 1.7 million dollars were detected in the State Reserve. The shortage of grain in just one of the Dereserva companies is 27.9 million dollars. As a result of the work of the head of the Mikita Barabas Reserve for 2020-2021, dozens of reports of corruption have been recorded, and more than 12 criminal cases have been opened to its newly appointed directors. Such circumstances pose an economic danger to the state and the economy as a whole, and they therefore require additional response measures. On September 21st of this year, I am sending letters to the heads of the MPs and groups asking to make written proposals for the delegation of Ukrainian national deputies to the factions, members of the MPs, to work on the interim commission of inquiry in accordance with the rules of law. Please consider this initiative and join the work of the TSC. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Misagina Yuri Mikhailovich. Make it official.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u14	Please give the floor to Yuri Kamelchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u15	Kamelchuk Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u16	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon! The theme is very simple: 17.5,000 tons of coal. Who stole it? The Lviv branch of the Espreso channel published a second series of orders, the only purpose of which is to keep me silent. Keep quiet about the corruption of mines, keep quiet about the jeans of selling journalists and keep quiet about the illegal actions of the Fifth President's team and not just those who own Espreso channel. The venerable adepts of the fifth and discoverers of corruption, the so-called discoverers, you certainly didn't get yours, but the other way around. So I'm going to keep showing real information. The Ministry of Energy really initiated the inventory of coal residues in Lviv-Coal DP warehouses. As a result of the verification, a carbon deficit balance of 17,000 tons was found. That is why the Ministry appealed to law enforcement authorities to identify and bring to justice those responsible. To put it this way, I've been doing it, and I've been reporting it, leading the TSC on the issue of business damage within the Parliamentary Energy Committee and the JCC. Unfortunately, that's where the truth ends and the story begins -- the story of 17.5,000 tons of coal that in two months reportedly came out of the mines. Who's not on the subject, simple math and calculator will help you: 17,000 tons of coal is about 273 meters of cars. Imagine such a volume. How real without it. Noticed, without being seen, to take, for example, 875 coal trucks out of the mines that have been discovered, by the way, on three mines alone, missing. By the way, if there were cameras and if LVD management were to follow up on that, they would also see other exports, if that were true. But where the truth is, where the lie is, we'll figure it out. I have one more question. We've forgotten about the 200 million that came out early this year as the debt of Lviv-Ugil PD, which was shipped to the construction site from the former management of Centrnergo. Forget it! And they forgot to join the Temporary Investigation Commission, two of our colleagues, who dirtyly threw me at the briefings yesterday, is Mikhailo Bondar and Mikhailo Wolinitz. Thank you for not working on the interim commission of inquiry on coal damage. And thank you for continuing to distribute fairy tales. If you think you're gonna stop me like this, you're not gonna make it. You'll dig deeper, you'll find a hole for yourself. And I'll just sit back and watch your criminal cases go by. And by the way, journalists need to learn Ukrainian because the word "Gennady" and more specifically the name is "n".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I give you the right to repeat. I understand that it requires two persons who have been named. Please, Michael Volintz and Michael Bondar. First Volintz, then Bondar per minute. Please. After all, I'd ask the authors to stay away from their names.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u18	Dear friends! This is the case when a hat burns on a thief. Kamelchuk had set up the Minister of Energy Galuschenko, had two of his assistants for the respective positions in the D.C. (The Lviv-Ugil State Enterprise), and had a private company. In the Ministry of Energy, when it was discovered that 17.5,000 tons of coal were missing from the mine’s emergency warehouses, Kamelchuk was taken away. The Ukrainian Security Service conducted an investigation. They took the papers out on three mines and the Lviv-Coal PD. Journalists, local press, and atosers responded. Sailors were watching the controls. I received a personal telephone call from Bakanov on August 21, and we discussed the situation. Now Camelchuk calls my last name that I'm preventing him from stealing coal here on the mine and doing the right kind of corruption. For this, Jura, we must answer!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u19	Please, the right of reply is granted to the national MP, Michael Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u20	I had a briefing last night, my colleagues. I've been telling you a little bit about these people, who have been posted by our colleague, who previously reported on the TSC, all of this, on the Lviv Coal DP, they're now climbing the Hope mine. Because they stole 17,000 tons, now they want to go to Hope Mine. I think the law enforcement authorities are really going to deal with this. And I'm sure it's a good thing the minister's trying to move a little bit away from this nardep who offered his services. The TSC he talks about should have reported damage to the coal - mining business as early as June. It hasn't done so yet, because when people stole 17.5,000 tons, that's carbon footprint. And what I'm trying to say to my colleague is, not the committee, but the Antimonopoly Committee, to give clear instructions on what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u21	The word is given instead of the national deputy Knyazevitch Ruslan Petrovich Heraszczenko Irina Volodymyrni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainians! I think most of you are already convinced that Zelensky and his team came to power on manipulations, lies and populism, lying to our team two years ago. But they must be given due, they have come to power in fair and democratic elections. And it seems that the last democratic elections took place in this country. Remember, a year ago, local elections. You all remember these five questions from the President in a survey of unknown money. Our faction still has no answer to our questions to the appropriate structures, to the majority faction, so who financed it: the people, these enigma of Greens and Servants, or the oligarchs playing Greens? You all remember Zelenski and his team rejected Ukraine in the days of Yanukovic when these parliamentary aunts arrived when they nearly killed KLA members. And now these technologies by Yanukovic are fully included in 197 districts in Cherkaščina, where "European Solidarity" has put forward a candidate for the national deputy of the Kremlin's political prisoner, whom Putin has not broken, and Zelenski and Ko will not be able to break Roman Sušchenk for a long time. So here's the team of Zelenski and Skyczka, and this is a former mono-majority napping, and they've already fully incorporated the administrative resources. Members of the KLA, school principals, and hospital directors who are not paid are already being called to the Ukrainian Security Service, the OTG of managers are being dragged and held with them by so - called preventive talks. It's already fully developed a script from the adoption of the administrative resources. The sketch that was left in the memory of the session hall only because he was such a, you know, promoter of the Gambling Business and Casino Inclusion Act, today he's running this candidate by "servants." They began by moving the district from Caneva, where it was historically located, to Goldilocks. Because today's "servicing" candidate, he's now working as mayor of Goldilocks, that is, they're already preparing a "right" vote and they want to make Goldilocks such a forger for falsifications. We want to call on all the organizations that monitor the electoral process to become fully involved now and to identify all these violations of the law, all of this administrative resources. We know that by the beginning of October, Zelensky was already preparing to work as a VIP agitator of the People's Servants and go there to talk about what a wonderful candidate. Dear Churchmen, when Zelenski tells you that he is building roads there, ask him how much he put in the road. It's built on your taxes. When Zelensky tells you that they're going to build stadiums there and so on, it's built for your taxes that the Churches pay today. The green one did not spend any money on charity during these years, including on roads. And the President's office said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u23	The word is given to Ukraine's national MP, Borzoi Irina Namentowny, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Irina Borzov, Winnitzkin, Servant of the People. Dear Ukrainians, when I talk to you, working in the Winnitzkin district, I hear from you the excitement about the heating season, the utility payments and whether there will be a subsidy. Despite the difficult situation in the world market, Ukraine is expected to have a stable heating season, and without a sharp change of tariffs for the population. We should not allow a situation that occurred in the 14th and 19th years when people's payments increased by almost 2,000 dollars. It is important that at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a decree has already been adopted by the Ministry of Energy that does not change the electricity tariff for the population, and for those who consume less than 250 kilowatts per month, it has even declined. Given that gas deficits have been created in the European market, prices have risen to a historical maximum and now exceed $600 per thousand cubic metres, Naftogaz has set an annual price for gas for the population. From May 21st to May 22nd, the annual tariff on gas is in effect. The price is stable — less than 8 bracelets per cubic meter. There shouldn't be any jumps for gas for the population. It is noteworthy that in the context of decentralization reform, it is the capitalists who influence the pricing of tariffs on hot and hot water. This is a very important moment. Whether the price goes up depends on the local capitals of each city. Measures that have taken care of their city, energy efficiency, infrastructure will be much easier to pass the heating season. At the same time, it is worth noting that the price of natural gas for budgetary institutions has actually increased. Therefore, it is important that the government help local authorities to pass the heating season without complications. Clearly, we need to combine our efforts with local authorities to set transparent and affordable tariffs for the municipal sector, budgetary institutions, and the population in Ukraine. It is also worth voting for the changes to the budget in 2021 so that everyone in need will receive subsidies. People should have warm homes, stable tariffs, and subsidies that are hard to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u25	Thank you. The word is given instead of the national deputy Tistislav Jaroslavovich to the national deputy Grishku Roman Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u26	Good morning, dear fellows! I represent 222 districts in Parliament, the district of Kyiv, Solomon. Many of you live in the region of Solomon. Most of you live in Kiev, each of you can see what is happening with the capital right now is the total construction of the city of Kiev, the new HQ and the office centers appear on the site of school stadiums, squares, parks, cultural heritage objects. The results of this are all on each of us: these are kilometres of traffic, overcrowded kindergartens and schools, these are worn-out engineering networks, this is the maximum reduction in public space. Unfortunately, the Kyiv authorities have now become the provider of the builders, not the interests of the Chinese. We don't have an approved master plan, no zoning. Urban conditions seem to be the right thing for builders, not the right way for dignitaries. In all this I helped, gave permission to the famous DABI, who you and I had eliminated by the law of Ukraine. However, during the last days of her work, DABI has worked around the clock and has seen a huge variety of permits for the construction of the city of Kiev, including the construction of the National Aviation University. 14 houses, 1 000 700 apartments in NAU territory! The University of Aviation already has a negative experience of building a CD in its territory. There are reports from the Auditorium, and I spoke in the hall. The university didn't get much for that. Earths of education have gone to the CD. Now we're on the same rake again. On the ground, there are 14 buildings for 1,000,700 apartments. This will make it impossible for the National Aviation University to develop further. This is what each of us is going to feel right on top of each other. I've already addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I will also turn to the newly created National Urban Inspection for the lifting of these shameful permits. I also await the response of the Ministry of Education and Management of the National Aviation University. No, the total city of Kiev! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, the National Aviation University! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u27	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy, Dr. Dmitry Sergiyovich, but Pushkarenko Arsen will speak in his place. Please. And that's an extreme performance for today in the chapter. Please, Pushkin Arsen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u28	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know that in the Supreme Council there is also in the first reading a bill to prevent threats to national security, which involves the excessive influence of persons who have considerable economic, political weight in social life, or oligarchs. At the initiative of President Vladimir Zelensky, you and I adopted this bill on our first reading. In the near future, we should consider it in our second reading and in general. Yes, he was criticized, noted, but on the committee he was accepted, worked on. All colleagues of all factions had the opportunity to apply. When, fellow officers, we went to the elections with you, I'm now addressing our "Serial of the People" faction, we promised we'd start dismantling and dismantle the oligaric system. What are oligarchs? The oligarchs are cancerous tumors on the body of our state. We understand that this is the way that all the countries of the Soviet Union, the Soviet Union, the social camp, and this is what happened in the 1990s, the 2000s, and the Baltic countries, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Croatia. But these countries have been able to defeat the oligarchs, and today you see their economic capacity, their potential, their potential. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the moment of truth has come in Ukrainian politics, a moment when it will be understood who is the servant of the people and who is the servant of the oligarchs. I understand that the old factions, and some of them represent oligarchs, even here, beside us, against this bill. I understand they're used to eight phone calls working in this system. They're all set up. The goal of the oligarch, what? Through this hall, through Kabin to influence the economy through politics, to become monopolies, to trade out special preferences for themselves. We have a unique opportunity, and we have a majority just because people trusted us that we promised to dismantle the oligaric system. That's why voting in the hall for this bill is a marker for each of us, a marker of that, we're with the people and we're changing something, whether we're staying in an old, rotten, corrupt oligarchy system. So, honourable colleagues, I very much ask each of you, when this bill will be considered in the second reading and in general, to support it. Because this law supports every Ukrainian citizen who wanted to change, who was tired of the old politicians, by choosing us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u29	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, a list of questions. We finished this part of our meeting. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for two factions: the Fatherland faction and the EC faction. The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, 3 minutes. And then we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I ask your attention for a minute, I understand that I have everything to do. Last night, without exaggeration, a sensational event took place, but unfortunately, it remained undetected in Parliament. The point is, NAC CEO Otto Vaterlander gave an open interview yesterday before he got out of office. The key thing he said, I'd like to quote you now. "Gas production costs us about 1 bracelet per cubic meter." That's what the foreigner and CEO of NAC Naftogazu said. One bracelet, pay attention. And then I have a question for all of us: are we that we don't represent the people here at all? Why do we give the right today, even to the last-hop supplier of NAC Naftogazu, to take gas for the population of 7.99? Consider this eight times the cost of gas in Ukraine. Who has given the right to earn 800 percent in poor Ukrainian families who cannot make ends meet? And the second. I want to tell you the news: as of October of the month, the budget institutions (schools, kindergartens, hospitals) will be selling the same NAC Naftogazu gas 24 bracelets per cubic meter -- 24 times the cost of this gas according to a foreign citizen who led Naftogaz. I'm going to say that this is an I.P. in the country, it's a big lie. And I want to remind you that there's a government audit that says that NAC Naftogaz didn't use 225 billion dollars as an assignment -- that's almost more than the country's pension fund. And that is why our team believes that if there is a Parliament at all and there is no place left, we must act immediately. We're proposing. The first is to listen to the Prime Minister on Friday. The second is to immediately create a temporary investigation commission for NAC Naftogazu. The third is to consider with you our joint bill 4380 on the cost of Ukrainian gas plus 30 percent of the profit to give to people and budget institutions. And the fourth is to look for a criminal case in the N.A.U.U. against anyone who ran the N.A.K. Naftogaz. Here's the outside government: a citizen of a foreign state said that it's not 7 to sell, it's 20 to sell. That's how we live today, we need to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today, you have been given, and we are moving on to their consideration. Your consideration is proposed by the draft Ordinance on immediate measures to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to housing, the draft of the Ukrainian National MP Galina Tretiakova, this is Project No. 5251. In accordance with the Rules, consideration shall be carried out by means of a reduced procedure. In fact, I suggest we have a brief discussion of the procedure, and to that end, I remind you, we need 150 votes in the room. Are you ready to vote in favour of the short-term project 5251? Please support and vote. [[10:41:57]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Galina Mikolayevna Trelyakowa to report. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u32	Dear Chairman, good morning! With the beginning of our drafts! It's about the decision right now and I'm going to start with statistics in Europe. For only half the Germans own a home, a dwelling, an apartment, or their own home, there is another situation in Ukraine. In Italy, in Spain, 70 percent. Eastern Europe has a completely different statistic. Croatia, Hungary, and Ukraine own 80 percent of their homes. We even have this saying: "A masterful master is a fine house." And this is the same thing in Ukraine as in Eastern Europe. But the fact that Ukrainians want to own their own home does not mean that everyone can afford to have his own home. That is why there is a turn in Ukraine that has not been formed in one way in all 30 years of our independence, and some people are in different housing positions. To bring it into one row at last, to understand the problem, to understand how to solve it, and how to rewrite the Soviet Housing Code, how to solve the problem of social housing, whether there is a question of housing in the hostel, whether it is possible to believe that a person has housing, or whether it is only necessary to have a home of his own in order to have housing. In order to solve this problem, this decision, which was agreed upon by the central executive authorities and our vice-premier Michael Fedorov, who, in 30 years at last, could be divisive, working with the local authorities, and with the Ministry of Regional Affairs to make this change, which would be the beginning of the fact that the problem of the turn in Ukraine for housing had been solved. Please all support this decision and vote on it. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u33	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Litvinov Alexandr Mikolaiovich. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u34	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development considered at its meeting a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to housing under registration number 5251. The objective of the project is to gather statistical information, to carry out a comprehensive, meaningful analysis of the state of housing, to reflect the corresponding dynamics of housing movements, in order to further develop a government programme to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to housing. As a result of the general discussion, the Committee recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, that it adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to housing under registration number 5251 as a whole. I am also informed that the Ministry of Community and Territory Development, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Veterans Affairs of Ukraine have informed about support for the draft decision. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine made their proposals for the draft decision. Colleagues, please support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u35	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this draft decision? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhailuk Galini Olegovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u37	Trelyak's Galina Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u38	Thank you for your word. I ask you once again to support the hall. Once again, I stress that we have a lot of unresolved problems in providing housing for all those in need in this apartment. I also want to stress that the housing line is duplicating. We have people who have a status, for example, a participant in combat, and at the same time are multi-child parents or material, and there are those who are underserved. In many families, we have the highest percentage of poverty. This is the result of an analysis of the strategy of overcoming poverty. There's no telling how people who have stood for 30 years didn't get a home when they took part in a war in Afghanistan. To date, Afghan fighters have not been provided with housing for up to 30 years. In order to understand this change in general, who stands for how many years, who is more or less needy, so that the money that is isolated in the state, in the local budget, concentrates on launching the most deprived sections of the population and requires the creation of a single queue. The Ministry tried to create such a register and in previous years, unfortunately, there is no single queue. My requests to the local authorities, to the central authorities, say that today there is no single queue and understanding that there is no need for the whole country in the provinces, in the government, in the Supreme Council. Please support this determination so that all of us as national deputies understand the need and the depth of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u39	Thank you, Galina Santa Claus. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u40	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u41	Roman Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u42	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” If all the national MPs were to take sides, if all the national MPs were to meet people not only in the center of Kiev, but in the communities, in the territorial communities, in the streets, in the squares, they would know that one of the most common issues is housing insecurity. We had this experience that, along with the Soviet heritage, we had destroyed utility apartments. It happened that, along with the Soviet heritage, we received destroyed homes, homes, and families of people who worked long hours in our country in various businesses, factories, and now they simply have no place to live. And does the State of Ukraine have this information about these people? Does the State of Ukraine, the government, the executive authorities, have a plan of action to do with the transition of these people from their communal apartments? What should be done with the state property that they were provided for? No, it doesn't. So this is the kind of bill that we're looking at in this room today that we're called upon to take just the first step. That's not enough. People don't get apartments, people don't get the opportunity to figure out how to then compensate for the ruined housing. But this is the first step that the State of Ukraine will take to make sure that the government understands the need for these people, the number of these people, the state of housing that the State once provided. So it is very important to take this step, to vote on this bill. Yet, without any unnecessary promises, without undue populism, the State must be honest to say who, when, and in what way, it can count on housing. We should do this today, we should do it tomorrow, and people should get this information clearly, clearly, what they should do next and how they should live on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u43	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u44	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, our faction will support this draft decision because it's an important thing. We really need to help people, and we really need to tell them who has the right to receive housing from the State, who can't do it. Because we have queues, people have been standing since Khrushchev's time, 50-60 years in these queues, and they can't get anything. I'm the only one I want to draw your attention to. Look at the beginning, the preamble: " provided for in article 31 of the Ukrainian Code of Housing of the Soviet Socialist Republic." Friends, we have not yet decommunized our legislation. We still have the Housing Codex of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. I've introduced a bill to change that. Sadly, though, we have not yet taken him to the session room. Let's finally go! How old are you? For 30 years, we celebrated an independent Ukraine, and we all refer to the legislation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. The other one. When we say that we need to provide housing for people. Look at the laws of the government. 5600, which envisions an increase in the tax burden on construction, just for a new home -- where people can make money today, buy themselves a very simple apartment. Of course, Zelensky’s right to housing is guaranteed by a thousand percent despite all promises. Willa in Conchi-Speed, who promised to give it to his children, gave it to his children, and now he lives there, and he has completely ignored that promise, just like everyone else. So, excuse me, let's give people who want to buy housing today a chance not to increase the tax burden on this, as the authorities are now trying to do. So let's not do that when we raise an important issue with one hand: providing people with housing, and with another hand we kill the opportunity of Ukrainians to live in decent conditions. And, Zelensky, keep your promise, give the villa to the children! Not just yours! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u45	The word is given to the Ukrainian National MP Igorovni, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u46	Please give the word Coltunovich Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u47	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! The subject is extremely topical. Unfortunately, though, the draft ruling does not resolve it because it is declarative. Look at the text. That's how much you sound like, well, you know, Mrs. Galino, how important things sounded to be solved. What are we doing? We're handing over Kabina? Should we put control on S.H.I.E.L.D.? We know he's not doing anything. We've given these decisions in terms of energy. It's completely empty stuff. We support this decision because these registers are needed and the problem needs to be solved, but it's being solved more globally. That's the first one. The other one. If you want to solve the housing issue, you have to solve question number one: mortgage lending. If Nazbank increases your account rate from 6 to 8.5 percent, the cost of loans, including mortgage loans, increases. This is beyond the reach of Ukrainian citizens. That's what we have to decide. Or the second point is, let's solve another very important issue for Ukrainians in housing. The people who got the housing loans, the mortgage loans, give them and count the rate they took. Because when there was a "bankopad," when there was a devaluation of the national monetary unit, those who took loans in relation to the currency could not pay them today. And let's do one more question about housing. When you've given the opportunity to vote in this room to take housing from people for residential debts. This is also a very important question. And now one more thing, what Julia Timoshenko said about the price of gas for the population. And when we have the price of gas for the population instead of the bracelet of 10 bracelets, 38 copies, when we have 10 times the price that we should have, is a Ukrainian citizen able to afford housing? This complex of problems needs a really global solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, would anyone like to speak? Yeah, I see, Irina Miroslavna, right? And Kucherenko, right? Please, first Irina Miroslavovna, then Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko, and then we go to the vote. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u50	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group. Of course, the Majority Group "For the Future" supports this decision because we think that the absence of housing in Ukraine is one of the most pressing social problems. But let us be, company, all honest. What do we expect as a result of this decision? Even after statistics have been collected and we have analyzed the complexity and scope of this problem, we will not be able to answer whether the government is ready to solve the problem. So the Future Group believes that the next step should be the government's position and response as to whether they are willing to address the problem of housing financing for the most important categories of our population. And I think we should focus first on the young people that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u51	Please. Alexi Yuryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u52	Alexy Kucherenko, "The Fatherland" faction, head of the All-U.S. Association of Housing Owners of Ukraine. Dear Mrs. Galina, dear colleagues, we will support this determination so that you do not hesitate. But believe my longtime experience and the situation in Ukraine, it does absolutely nothing about it, because the principles of things are not solved. By the way, Mrs. Galina, you call this regulation an urgent measure to ensure the realization of housing rights. But there are no extra steps, you know. Money has to be spent, the government program has to appear. In order for the government’s housing program to come into existence, the old Housing Code, to which you refer, the Codex URSR, must be replaced with the new modern Housing Code. By the way, the President has commissioned you to develop it, but it's been two years, and you're not following your President's orders. It's a bad thing, people's servants. Accept the basic documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. If you'll excuse me for a few words. I absolutely agree, and I very much hope that the Hall will also support, in the second reading, the Deradation of Ukrainian Legislation Act, where one of the points is the amendment of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code, as well as the provision of a specific mandate to the Supreme Council on the development of the relevant draft with clearly defined deadlines. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote for this very important draft decision. I am voting on the Committee's conclusions to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft Decision on urgent measures to ensure the implementation of the right of citizens to housing (project registration number 5251). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[10:59:44]] For 343 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Yes, here we go, dear fellows. We have the next bill, 5845. After this bill we have to include it in the agenda of the day session. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the provision of public (electronic public) services (legislative number 5845). Please don't split, we need the first vote. So I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned bill. We need to get 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[11:00:41]] For 284 Decision taken. Next. I put to the vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. There are also 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[11:01:06]] For 275 Decision taken. And I'm also voting on the issue in short notice. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[11:01:31]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Francis Igor Pavlovich. Please, Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u54	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Remember, recently, you and I have supported a large number of national MPs in the Mincify Paperles Bill. And we had a discussion about whether we could accept it as a whole, or whether the observations that were in some of the national MPs could then be considered and adopted in the next bill. We agreed to vote in favour of the draft law proposed by the Mincifre in addressing the painful issues associated with such a function as silent agreement. The authors of this bill, including my colleagues, have determined that silent consent cannot be applied in exceptional cases where personal property rights and duties of Ukrainian citizens may be regulated in some way. This is true of various questions. Registration, for example, changes in the name, after the father, of acts of civil status of others. Property registration for real estate, bankruptcy, executive conduct. You can't just tell the state that it is, and if the state doesn't answer, it will happen automatically. In view of this, we submitted our vision in the bill. This bill is in line with the Ministry of Justice, with the Ministry of Digital Transformation. And I'm sure he's levelling out the problems that have been put in the main bill, which, we know with you, is aimed at digitizing our state. I ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill, as proposed by the committee, on the basis and in general. And allowing you to launch a system of digitalization, digital signatures and registration of administrative services electronically. Thank you all. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u55	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. I invite a co-rapporteur on this bill to chair the Digital Transformation Committee, Michael Valeriovich Kryach. Please, Mikhailo Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the Digital Transformation Committee at its meeting on September 8th, discussed Bill 5845, clarifying the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of the provision of public services, particularly in the definition of a list of social relations that are not subject to the requirements of this Act, and changing the approach to the definition of the principle of the provision of public services by silence. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the provision of public services (No. 5845), introduced on 10.08. 21 national deputies, Igor Fries and others, as a result of his consideration in the first reading, to accept as a basis and as a whole with the commission of the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out technical and legal drafting of the bill in preparation for the signing of the bill to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u58	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u59	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u60	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, this bill is the best, most powerful proof of what has been the rush to adopt the bill. I remind you that, at the time of the adoption of the basic bill, we warned you that instead of allowing for the "transitional positions" to enter into force, becoming effective three months after its publication, you'd better give time to these three months to take into account all the proposals that were made during the first reading, including in a piece of silent agreement. I spoke about this personally at a session of the Supreme Council. We didn't hear. The bill was adopted locally. It was given three months after the President quickly signed it and published it in order for it to enter into force. And now we have in terms of standardizing technology something like this, I'd say, an exotic approach. Imagine, we are now making changes to a law that has not come into force. I honestly don't know such precedents. It's not my business, it's the judiciary, but it's still the Constitutional Court, which has to consider, including the matter of the procedure for considering this bill. But I'm pointing out that this kind of thing leads to mistakes that are also in this bill. In particular, and in part, including executive conduct, which is provided as a silent agreement, a corresponding change in father and a whole series of other things that you warned about during the first reading of the bill. So, of course, we support this bill, although we don't know what its fate is, and how it will look at it, including the body of constitutional control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Anna Speedboat, Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u63	Dmitri Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u64	Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Of course, I confirm all the words that the previous speaker said. You know, I go to my colleagues from this rostrum all the time, and I invite them to read the conclusion of the GNEU, but don't vote for everything that goes into the agenda, all the more so don't vote thoughtlessly for the basis and for the whole. This is an example of the fact that all the national MPs, including the members of the Party for the Future MPs, then stressed that when the Ukrainian Law was passed, "On the Specialities of the Provision of Electronic Public Services" as a basis and as a whole, you're making a mistake. And indeed, about what our colleague Igor Fries said, the so-called silent agreement of three days, so that every state authority in three days, having received a request from Ukrainian citizens, has given an answer or, if it does not provide an answer, it is seen as a silent consent to a positive answer, cannot work. Therefore, we must certainly vote in behalf of the honourable national deputies today. And the MP's Party for the Future, as majors, we face this issue every day. Indeed, a law that has not yet been drafted that has not entered into force can simply lead to a collapse. Today we have to vote for it. And, indeed, we can vote on the basis as a whole, because this is the technical law, the little one that corrects this mistake. But, honourable national MPs, let us draw our conclusions from each similar case. Nevertheless, I urge you to read the conclusion of the GNEU, to vote, to think, and to understand clearly what you are voting for. Thank you and ask Parliament to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u65	Thank you. The word is given by Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u66	Sobolen. Please pass the word to Kabachenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u67	Vladimir Kabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u68	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Once again, dijitalization, information, the transition to electronic services is cool, and that's the right thing to do. To deprive people of the need to stand in line, waiting for a bunch of paperwork, wasting time and their nerves, is also relevant. But even more relevant, just before the start of the heating season, it would make NAC Naftogaz Ukraine openly publish the prices at which NAC imported gas during the last year. So I want to go to the head of the Digital Transformation Committee right now and ask them to develop such an electronic service so that Ukrainian citizens can finally get transparent access to gas prices from NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Now, back to Bill 5845. The problem with this bill is that it does not correct the fundamental flaw of the basic bill 5495, namely, the principle of silent agreement. The law in force forces all of us to switch to electronic public services. Dear colleagues, are you sure that all the registers have been completed today and that this truly beautiful initiative will not end in a collapse? And what about cybersacrifice? Where are the fuses in this bill on this very issue? A clear example of the misuse of electronic services is the case of a Ukrainian citizen who, without even having an account in the Act, a way of digitally stealing her identity, was taken credit for her name. So "Paternity" will be held in the vote for this bill in the first reading. But if we accept our rights to the second reading of "The Fatherland" it will be a great pleasure to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u69	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I agree with my colleagues about this bill, it's in fact. We have passed a bill to which we are amending July 15th and which will take effect on November 7th, and we are making changes to this law, which has not yet entered into force. Good thing we're making them, we're correcting mistakes. But why can't we listen to it? And as head of the board of directors and procedure, I've talked about this a number of times, and I've applied for a silent agreement, and somehow she didn't get a vote. And now we have to make changes to a law that has not yet entered into force. Thank you, Mr. Fries, for being able to convince his colleagues and correct all the mistakes about the silent agreement. Because you know, we're still being warned by the SIGMA Program, like the Venice Commission, in the field of state administration, the Analytical Center, and they're talking about you making a huge mistake. Because what do we actually have? If there's any kind of service available, and if the administration has documents, it doesn't have the right to demand these documents from a person. But why make three days that if we don't get this document, it means that it already is, you can imagine. So this is total dissonance. So thank you, Mr. Fries, he's been correcting that this principle does not apply to the state registration of real estate rights, to the registration of legal persons. This is very important because we would have huge problems. And, of course, I've increased this term by five days. So, colleagues, I want to ask you once again to really work systematically, to listen to all the steakholders, not just in a week or two, to adopt the law, and then for half a year to correct those mistakes, or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is still a need. Yeah, I can see that. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich And no one else wants to speak. So after that, we're going to vote for this bill. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we are now making heroic repairs to the mistakes that we have made in the summer heroically. Of course, the law must be upheld. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention. You know, we're having a lot of discussions right now about the need for a network or taking into account the legal authorities' observations or the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I hope this situation is a great proof that very often the remarks that are written in the official documents of the Supreme Council that are being prepared for us are important. So thank you again, colleagues, for paying attention. I hope that in the future, all the committees will prepare their texts for second reading so that we do not heroically correct them. Thank you. We uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u73	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, for the discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. And I also ask the people's deputies once again and again to consider that COVID is only gaining new momentum. And I asked, and I ask you to follow security measures: please put on your masks and please process your hands and other surfaces of your body. Dear colleagues, you're ready to vote, so I'm making an offer. The committee's proposal to accept as a whole, but as we always go, first as a basis, and then, if there's no objection, I'll put it in general. Therefore, I first base my proposal to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the provision of public (e-public) services (project registration number 5845). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:16:16]] For 287 Decision taken. There is a proposal for the committee to accept in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. There's no objection in the hall? Then I propose to the committee to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the provision of public (electronic public) services (project registration number 5845). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:17:01]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is first reading, Bill 4378. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. I am questioning this bill by a reduced procedure, which requires 150 votes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of this decision. Please support and vote. [[11:17:42]] For the 250. Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the Head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information, Yuri Fedorovich Szygol. But, dear colleagues, before we consider the matter, I, on the other hand, appeal to the subjects of the legislative initiative to stop sending the Law on Amendments to Laws. The name of the law should make it clear what the bill refers to, and what the law is aimed at regulating. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u74	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! I present to you the draft Ukrainian Law 4378 amending certain laws of Ukraine. At present, we all realize that there is a real threat to the physical, cybernetic, technological nature of critical state information resources. Such resources include state registers as well as databases of public authorities, together with their information and analysis systems that serve the current activities of these bodies, as well as activities related to the provision of services to citizens. Therefore, the loss of information can result in negative consequences that may result from the availability of restricted documents in such systems as citizens’ personal data. In the event of a hybrid war, the credibility of targeted actions to disrupt the functioning or destruction of critical state information resources is much higher, and thus the issue of impossibility or reduction of such risks is one of the priorities. The aim of this bill is to address, at the legislative level, the issue of information security of public electronic information resources in public authorities in the event of negative consequences, such as cyberattack or cyber incident. The draft law provides for the obligation to maintain backups of information and information on state electronic information resources. It is also proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Act "On Basic Principles for Cybersecurity of Ukraine" with the obligation of state bodies, military formations, state enterprises, institutions and organizations to create backups in the order determined by the Cabinet. So far, according to the government’s decision, the State has taken steps to establish a national information center. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u75	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. I'd like to invite a co-rapporteur of the Digital Transformation Committee, Federenko Alexander Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Ukraine’s bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine (registration number 4378) (imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) is small in size. This bill entrusts Ukraine with the responsibility of retaining backup copies of information and information on state electronic information resources. Its adoption will allow the legal basis for the organization to restore access to and function of information infrastructure in public authorities in the event of negative consequences, such as cyberattack or natural disasters. I mean, your honor, what are you talking about? The point is that if state digital information is lost, the State Special Liaison Service will be able to recover from those backups that they will make in advance. The bill contains separate technical and legal shortcomings. In particular, according to established legislation, it is desirable to specify the title of the bill. The name "To make changes to certain laws of Ukraine," softly put, does not reveal the substance of the project. Undoubtedly, the adoption of the law will have a positive impact on the stability of state information infrastructure and the state of national security. However, existing comments can be corrected when preparing for second reading. On February 3, the Digital Transformation Committee approved: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept as a basis. But given the urgency of such a bill, and what we need to keep relevant information, I turn to the proposal to support the bill as a basis and as a whole or to shorten the deadlines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u77	Thank you, Alexander Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u78	Please give my word to my colleague Arthur Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u79	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Of course, we will support this bill, because in the context of the hybrid aggression that is being carried out against our country today on the side of the Kremlin, it is very necessary. But at the same time, I'd like to talk about two, three important things. First. I fully support the first Vicescipeer in that incompetence in countering hybrid aggression can cost our country dearly. And incompetence begins with what laws are called when they are passed to the Supreme Council. The second question. Hybrid aggression, it's also done by Russians inside the country. And unfortunately, we even feel the elements of this hybrid aggression or hybrid action in the matter of how the TSC investigates the fallout of an operation on "vagers." Now, I would like to address the leadership of the Supreme Council with a parliamentary request, and I would like to consider this a statement from this rostrum. Why the opposition MPs tried not to allow a temporary commission of inquiry inside the Supreme Council, completely violating the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. And it's a nonsensus in general, because the Ukrainian national deputy can take part in any committee meeting of the Supreme Council or any action that takes place under the auspices or in the premises of the Supreme Council. And finally. You know, again with the interim commission of inquiry after the downturn of the operation on "vagants" in the higher cabinets of the state. According to article 8 of the TSC Law, the chairman of this commission may go out and say anything solely on the basis of the decisions made by this temporary commission of inquiry. Something tells me that no protocols or decisions have been made on this matter. And I have been asked to make such decisions exclusively by protocols now, and if that is not the case, please do not falsify the previous minutes of the sessions, as is being done now by the higher authority in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u81	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Nastavajchenk, Valentina Alexandrovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u82	Ladies of the Presidium, honourable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! Today, it is suggested that changes be made to legislation that needs to be clearly and simply regulated for a long time. Backups of all databases that are important to Ukrainian citizens are a direct duty not only to preserve but, first, to protect. So I have a direct question, who is responsible for cybersecurity: have you once protested at least one critical piece of cybersecurity and cybersecurity? I know the answer. Take your time. So I demand that professionals start doing professional things to protect not only the databases of state institutions that state institutions need. Think about people, protect personal data and databases of Ukrainian citizens, local authorities! For example, environmental passports of areas are critical to the functioning of the state? In your opinion, no, but in people's eyes, yes. Where will they be preserved, and how will they be protected? That's something to think about right now and professionally. And the second. We supported as a faction of the Fatherland of Cyberdiology with the European Union. The question that's very important right now is to do and synchronize our legislation and our protection of databases with European legislation. As European countries do. For example, let us take Estonia. I know that we have the head of the Ukrainian Digitalization Committee, Mr. Kryczko in the Hall, so I would like to say, get the best experts from Estonia with international experience, so that Ukraine can take the best European approaches into account at the outset. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Polack Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u84	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy to a member of the political group "Party for the Future" Sergio Jaroslavovich Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u85	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, somewhere in the classroom, you can hear that this is a technical bill that needs to be adopted without discussion. I disagree with this statement, and I agree with my colleague, Mr. Nastweichenko, who says that it was long overdue to protest how this story works on specific central executive bodies. Unfortunately, there's a huge question: how are we doing today at the end of September 21st, just on the first reading of this bill? Two and a half years will soon be how our Council works. On February 5, 20th, an entire Ukrainian Armed Forces Command was created from cybersecurity. And that's all we're looking at right now. And you know that this list doesn't include law enforcement, N.A.U.P.D., National Police, B.S.A., the Attorney General's Office? There's no need for backup data? Society cannot be accepted on both the basis and in general. That's why we can't have an inexhaustible list of institutions that need protection. So, of course, let's vote "yes" on the first reading, let's avoid these underwork, once again, which two tail years from our cadence have just brought up. And we're protesting for the first time when we do this, by the end of the year, how it works. Because it's not a giggle, it's a serious matter of national security. The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour on the first reading and will call for the support of the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u87	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust". Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, this bill proposes to address specific issues regarding the storage of information on electronic media, i.e. the storage and protection of state data and personal, personal data of our citizens on information resources. Of course, with the ever-increasing transition to electronic documentation in our country, it becomes logical and understandable. It should also be noted that the Kremlin’s hybrid aggression is on the rise, and there is a clear need for better and better protection of information on electronic media. What is more, every year the world is growing in cybercrime, and the number of cyberattacks is increasing, and the perpetrators are demanding the craziness of every cyberattack to restore data. Therefore, our public authorities, who are still under the special supervision of the aggressor, need to be protected as soon as possible. Of course, the bill will also require funds from the state budget. Over the next two years, it's over 300 million dollars, but we have to take this step, because the ransom that hackers demand is usually more expensive. Worse yet, the aggressor will destroy our electronic information media. I therefore believe that this bill should be voted on today in the first reading. The Trust MPs support this bill in the first reading with its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u89	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. Dear colleagues, would anyone else like to make a statement out of this bill? If not, we have concluded our discussion. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Look, colleagues, there was a proposal for the committee to take as a basis. And if there's no objection to the hall, then in general. If the room is denied, shorten the lines to the second reading. That's why I'm taking it gradually. First, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (project registration number 4378). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:32:19.]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it will be. The other one isn't, is it? Then I'm going to propose a reduction. It's consistent with the part. In general, it's against you, isn't it? Okay. Then, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I put to the vote a proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 4378), a draft law on the introduction of certain laws of Ukraine. People's deputies please support and vote. [[11:33:09]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property to clarify certain provisions and facilitate investment in privatization. These are two bills: registration number 5397 and alternative number 5397-1. I would like to start by considering these bills with a reduced procedure. To make a decision, 150 votes must be taken. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:34:00]] For 254 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Economic Development Committee, Alexy Vasilovich Movcan, to speak. And since he's going to be both as an author and as a committee, please give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u90	Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians! The draft Act (No. 5397) amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property to clarify certain provisions and facilitate investment in privatization is aimed at improving and correcting certain provisions of the professional law adopted in 2018. I'm explaining the key novels. The bill eliminates the ban on the privatization of enterprises for the manufacture and repair of technical rehabilitation facilities for disabled persons. Today, both public and private businesses are involved in this type of business. However, private workers are much more successful and have already won 85 percent of the market where the customer is mainly a state. Government (punitive) enterprises are engaged in increasing their debt ratios, which at the end of 2020 amounted to nearly 90 million dollars, and the debt on the payroll amounted to more than 10 million dollars. The arrival of private investors will reduce the pressure on the public budget without aggravating the situation of people with disabilities who need quality and modern means of rehabilitation. The other one. At the same time, the bill added restrictions on the privatization of enterprises for the manufacture and repair of all weapons on the armament of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other designed in accordance with the law of the Ukrainian Military Security Service. This restriction will allow for the preservation of the military-industrial complex by ensuring that alienation is prohibited at the level of the law. Third. Another issue that the bill deals with is the holding of re auctions with lower start-up prices when selling small privatisation objects. Currently, part of the auctions for retail privatization are blocked by a mixed formulation of a standard that was adopted in one of the coded laws to prevent the sale of large - scale privatization objects with a reduction in the starting price during the pandemic. The bill clearly divides these concepts and eliminates the conflict. I want to give you a vivid example of the success of small privatization. Recently, I visited the central station in Kiev, the one who had been cheering on passengers with armored walls and anti - health services a few years ago. Now the situation has changed dramatically: the premises have become modern and clean, there has been a convenient navigation, a food court, hotel numbers, conditions for carriers and passengers, and a hard accounting of the passenger flow. And the budget received 270 million dollars, selling 99 per cent of the company's shares in a small privatisation at transparent auctions. According to the National Deputies of the Economic Development Committee, the adoption of Bill 5397 will improve the specific provisions of the Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property, which regulate relations with the implementation of State and municipal property, and contribute to the coming of public budget funds from the privatization of property rights. The Committee on Economic Development therefore proposes Bill 5397 to accept as a basis and to reject Bill 5397-1 accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexei Vasilovich. The word is given to the author of an alternative bill to the Ukrainian National MP, Volodymyr Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear friends! Moroz Volodymyr, 59th Majority District, Donetskina. I have studied Bill 5397 in detail, and I believe that it can only be supported in part, and I need to look closely at all the social consequences that the privatization of state enterprises and other facilities will have. I believe that it is very important to support the draft standards proposed by the author that will really promote the protection of national interests and national security, and provide for a moratorium on the privatization of defence companies, the production and repair of all weapons on the armament of the Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service. There are no objections and proposals by the drafters of the bill regarding the clarification of the terminology of legislation. At the same time, there are a number of basic projects that directly conflict with the interests of Ukrainian citizens and have negative social consequences, with significant scales. First of all, there are proposals to allow the privatization of state-owned enterprises for the manufacture and repair of technical and other rehabilitation facilities for people with disabilities. In doing so, it is quite obvious that this is an antisocial initiative in its essence, because privatization of such enterprises will result in the loss of state control. And that's why we're proposing. First. Leave the law to prohibit the privatization of state-owned enterprises in the manufacture and repair of technical means of rehabilitation for persons with disabilities. The other one. During the period when the government has established quarantine and restrictive measures in connection with the pandemic, to prohibit any privatisation procedures for the sale of large privatization objects, and to recognize that the decisions already taken to privatise such objects have become invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u93	Thank you, Volodymyr Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two for, two for. The word is given to National Deputy Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u95	Please, Rocksolana Andrienne Podlas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I want to remind you one more time that this year we put 12 billion dollars in the state budget from privatization, and that was the right thing to do. Because this money allows us to borrow less and less into the debt pit in which the country is now. But today this 12 billion-dollar plan is implemented by 25 percent, and you and I share the responsibility for this outcome. Because four months this year privatization has been banned in general, now auctions are banned with lower prices. And I want to ask you frankly: how can we ask the State Property Fund for any result if we don't give them tools to execute? What Is Little Privatization? I want to explain right away: it's a very common site that needs investment first. These could be naked walls without windows and without doors to which you need to invest a bunch of money in order for this course to work fully. And I propose that the State Property Fund be given the opportunity to sell these objects and to implement the plan that we have set before them. As far as privatization of rehabilitation facilities and centres is concerned. Today, there are only 12 of these enterprises in government ownership, which operate very little and usually collect taxes and wages. 85 percent of the rehabilitation market is controlled by private companies, and the state is absolutely normal in private companies to purchase these services to rehabilitate people with disabilities. So I propose not to speculate on this issue and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u97	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are in favour of restoring the privatization of large and small, despite the limitations that we have with the coronavirus. Since these are measures that should have been taken by the country long ago, they are measures of a mandatory level, i.e. mast have (must be done), although not enough to restore our economy. We often point to the fine example of Poland, which is very much like Ukraine with macroeconomic performances, and we would like our country to develop in the same way in an economic sense or even faster. But we forget that in Poland there were 8,000 of these enterprises, there were only 50 of them left, doing the functions of the state. But most importantly, what's the negative role of state-owned enterprises that don't do state-owned functions, they do low-income farming, and you've seen that they're increasing credit debt, is that they're corrupting a competitive environment and they're not giving a signal to the outside, and the inside, most importantly, an investor to go to the Ukraine market and invest here. For those who are concerned, it is worth stressing that the bill is worth supporting, taking into account the comments made by the professional community and the scientific and scientific management. At the same time, certain restrictions on the State’s performance remain. This limits the conduct of auctions with lower starting price, auctions by way of price study, and privatization by way of ransom during quarantine and other restrictive measures. I would like to emphasize once again the objects that are not subject to privatization, the manufacturing and repair of all weapons in the Armed Forces, other military formations, the Ukrainian Security Service, and so forth. We call for a vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u99	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u100	Please hand over Stepan Ivanovich Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u101	Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u102	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The project proposes to exclude state-owned enterprises from repairing technical and other rehabilitation facilities for persons with disabilities from the list of persons banned from privatization. The other one. Add to this a list of manufacturing and repairing companies of all weapons in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Third. In a new edition of the terminology of the conduct of auctions, "the electronic system" and "the central database." At the same time, I want to say that the restoration of auctions from the sale of large privatization during restrictive measures is a comparison to the position that we had in the 18th year of small privatization and auctions. This gave a positive, technological, legislative, and organizational position. As a result, we received good income from the government budget. This is a fair point made by the GNEU, because the Ukrainian Research Institute for Prosthetics and Prosthetics and Restoration was included by the government in the list of economic societies and associations whose statutory capitals account for 100 percent of corporate rights. The other one. This is a clarification of the current law on the listing of objects that are not subject to privatization. And there the terms for each other are replaced by objects of national significance. We've been discussing this issue in factions. There were no clear, but there were many risks and legislative differences. That's why the European Solidarity political party and the faction in general are being held together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u103	Thank you. The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u104	Please give the floor to your colleague, Anton Eduardoovich Polakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u105	Please, Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we see the consequences of your mindless vote again. Because our parliamentary group, when you voted for big privatisation, said that you couldn't do that. It's very good that you're proposing to ban the privatization of companies that manufacture and repair weapons for our Ukrainian Armed Forces, but keep an eye on them. You talk about courses here, but in your bill, on the one hand, it's a nice initiative, and on the other hand, you're allowing objects of great privatization to sell, in fact, without lowering the starting price. But we all know that the balance sheet of many businesses is still undervalued. And I have a question. If this Supreme Council came against the background that there was a mass mistrust of Ukrainians to the eighth assembly of parliament, what right do you have to sell businesses that belong to communities and Ukrainians if 70 percent of Ukrainians no longer trust you? What right do you have to sell strategic enterprises (Centrenergo, Ternopiloblenergo, Zaporozhye, Kharkiv, Mikolayev, Herson TEC, Dnipropetrovské TEC, Creviské heath centrale, Azovmash, Electrotegmash, Odesské sportový, Sumihimprom? These are giants, strategic enterprises that belong exclusively to the state and the Ukrainians. You have no right right now, but with the mistrust of the Ukrainians, to sell them to your own oligarchs, with whom you have a beautiful, fine fight, and with whom you sit on football in the same bed. Thank you for your attention. We will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, would anyone else like to take part in the discussion? Yeah, I can see that. Yes, Skork. Who else is there? Wasn't it from us, from the People's Service? And from us was Podlas, we can't give any more. I'll give you the word of Mikoli Leonidovich Skork from the Faction of the OPCW, but I'll ask the National Deputies to prepare for the vote afterwards. Please, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u108	People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our faction will support the alternative bill 5397-1 that was developed by our party, Mr. Frost. And I would like to ask, using the opportunity, both the government's leadership and the management of the State Property Fund and the drafters of this bill. What do we have with the list of objects, strategic objects that are not privatized? I remember that this list was canceled at the beginning of our cadence, and we were promised a new list in two months. For the first time in this office, we don't have a privatisation control committee. And Parliament was actually deprived of a control function, a parliamentary control function that was all vocations. We believe that this issue is in fact the theft of state property, a completely uncontrollable, strategic state property, which is the acquisition of all the people of Ukraine, must be stopped immediately. And the authorities have to live up to their promises to establish a list of objects that are not subject to privatization — strategic objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we've finished discussing these bills. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to the committee to adopt Bill No. 5397 amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property to clarify certain provisions and facilitate investment in the privatization process. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please take your seats. Please support and vote. [[11:52:35.]] For 265 Decision taken. Yes, he did. Please, David Georgiyovich, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I propose, given that we have a little bit of time to take a break, to raise the issue of Bill 5109, and to vote it out, we will be able to take a break. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u111	There was a proposal to change the order of the day and now to consider the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Well, I'm going to now vote that we change the order of the day, and we're going to go into this. I'm proposing to David Georgievovich Arahamaia to change the order of the day and to move on to the consideration of Bill 5109, this is the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition of Anti-Semitism in Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[11:53:44]] For 276 Decision taken. I invite the head of the committee of Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinz to the rostrum. Will anyone insist on repairs? Only the national MP, Vjatrović, are we going in the right direction? Let's go straight, yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Break in five minutes, you're a little bit. Please 1 amendment, People's Deputy Pippa. Don't insist, all right? The second is Amendment 2, Vjetrović. What? Oh, because it just stands first, Pippa, and there's a lot of standing there. Bobrowski, please. 1 amendment, Bobrowska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I honestly don't understand what the rush is for. And I'm very sorry and sorry that we're not voting on our position today as the Supreme Council on not admitting elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation, where our citizens participated, but we're in a hurry with a strangely complete bill. Well, if that's the story, I can go through all the trouble. Because first of all, when there are more than 150 different nationalities, minorities and so on in Ukraine, we are considering a completely interesting and strange bill today. My readout refers to the following. I think it has to be renamed, this bill is called: to prevent and combat anti-Semitism and Ukrainianophobia in Ukraine. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll bet you a vote. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u114	I'm very short. Dear colleagues, we cannot change the title of this bill because it deals with the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Discrimination in Ukraine, which includes the words "in Ukraine". For these reasons, we have left the name proposed in the bill. So these are not only the amendments made by the Voice faction, but also the amendments made by other people's deputies. That's why we rejected these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u115	Thank you. You heard the author's position, you heard the committee's position. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:13]] For 118 The decision is not taken. About that project you were talking about, I totally agree with you, but I'm informing you that it's not yet scheduled, it just came registered to the Council. As soon as it is scheduled, we will definitely conduct all necessary procedures for its introduction into the hall. Amendment number 2. National MP Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that Parliament is being used to update Russian fairies about the butymeto threat of anti-Semitism in Ukraine, but that the level of anti-Semitism in Ukraine is in the 18th in Central-Eastern Europe. But if most can't do without this bill, I think it should be thoroughly worked out, starting with the removal of the entirely Russian cliché of anti-Semitism in Ukraine, and ending with the expansion of the scope of the law. This amendment proposes the name of the law on prevention and resistance to Ukrainianophobia, anti-Semitism, national, racial, religious hatred and hatred. Rejection of this amendment means special legal regulation for one ethnic group and ignoring others is contrary to the Constitution. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u117	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, such amendments regarding the introduction of the term "Ukrainophobia" are very many. Indeed, the national deputy Vjatrović Volodymyr Mihajlovich presented seven such rights. I want you not to share that kind of information. The committee has not objected to or for these amendments, we can support them. But there's this law, it's called the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If in the first reading a law that is governed only by anti - Semitism is added to add something else, it is impossible to add other legal terms. This has been highlighted separately by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So, with all due respect, colleagues, we couldn't support these changes. It's both your 7 rights and 20 rights from the Voice, and 20 rights from the Savichuk, and 7 rights from the Voice, they couldn't support it, so they turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u119	Thank you. I think you heard the answer, so. You insist on putting the vote to the vote, don't you? I bet on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputy, Váterović. You've heard the committee's position, the committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[11:59:00]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 3, National Deputy Savichuk. Are you insisting? Your microphone's not on. Is there a national MP, Saucuk, in the hall? None. Yeah, let's move on. Fourth - Amendment No 4. Vitrović, please, Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee has just appealed that we cannot violate the Rules, but this bill is a violation of the Constitution, it is far more important. So, colleagues, I ask you to understand how sensitive the question is and to act in accordance with the constitutional principle of equality of all citizens regardless of their ethnic origin. This law condemns anti - Semiticism and Ukrainianophobia, and generally national, racial, religious, and hate. At the same time, I emphasize that anti-Semitism in the entire text of the law remains, and all the important positions of first reading remain. I think that's how it's going to be responsible, and that's the right thing to do, because to adopt individual laws under every nationality or to put people of different nationalities in unequal conditions is the way to go. Please support this very important amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u121	Thank you. But we have 12:01, we'll vote after the break. I'm calling a break for half an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of Bill 5109. We've stopped at the 4th Amendment. The National MP, Vytatrowich, reported the essence of it. Please, does the committee want to make a statement or a previous argument? You do, don't you? Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u123	Thank you. Well, as the committee pointed out, we remain in favor of the fact that we cannot make substantial changes through the Rules of Procedure Act. Thus, anti - Semitism is the subject of this bill. And we can't add anything there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the 4th Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Vátarović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:32:41]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 5, Saucuk. Will you insist? She's gone, isn't she? Yeah, she's not here. Okay, I get it. It's a 6-mendment. You're planning, aren't you? Please, Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I find it strange to hear the GNEU's explanation as a recommendation. But there were many precedents when the title of the bill was changed, and when we can actually change the approach and change both the preamble and the name, and what will be written inside. I would still like to seek the support of putting forward a preamble to the bill in the next edition. That this law is designed to prevent and combat Ukrainianophobia and other forms of xenophobia. Why? Or, in principle, turn this bill back into a work in order to make it look complex. Because once again, that bill that we want to adopt or adopt, and we want to see it as a law, is a completely clear, classic informational, psychological operation of the Russian Federation. And I'm very surprised that the author of this bill is wrapping up this bill in this Supreme Council. Thank you. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u126	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of amendment number 6 of the People's MP Pippa and others. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:16]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 7. National MP Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u127	I'd like the head of the committee to make a statement on the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The position is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not support this bill as one that could, in particular, result in the loss of Ukraine's international image. As far as this amendment is concerned. The text adopted in the first reading contradicts article 24 of the Constitution, which prohibits privileges or restrictions on the basis of ethnic origin, and 161 of the Criminal Code, which provides for 8 years of imprisonment for the burning of national, racial, religious hostility, the humiliation of national honour and the dignity of Ukrainians, Jews and people of all nationalities and religions in Ukraine. Amendment 7 proposes the definition of Ukrainianophobia, anti-Semitism, racial discrimination, which is legally verifiable and based on international law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u128	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u129	Thank you. In fact, I agree with that and I can confirm that a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has come to our committee that some of the comments and norms of this bill do not support them. In addition, I would like to inform the people's deputies that when we considered this bill at the committee meeting before the first reading, there were no letters from the MFN. I would also like to inform the people's deputies that there were foreign ambassadors attached to our consideration, various social organizations that stressed the need for the adoption of the bill. So we came to the conclusion that the bill, if such a legislative initiative was to take place, needed to be considered. And most of our committee is recommended for adoption both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote on Amendment 7. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:40]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is Amendment 9. Bobrowski's gonna be doing the same thing, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u131	Yes. My fellow Members, I still go back to the hall, when there's a vote for the bill, to return to work, and we've made it more complex. First of all, not because the contents of the bill itself, he, if someone really read it and saw its appearance in the first reading, he looked as if a person were just writing like a chicken in the back of a paw: with a bunch of spelling errors, logical errors, with incorrect definitions, with no definitions of the Council of Europe dictionary, and so on. And the most interesting thing is that these are my changes, they were accepted, absolutely all right and normal. But I still want to go back to the fact that another Ukrainianophobia bill is pointless. I have a proposal: let's make this bill more complex, work together on positions that concern Ukrainians, and we'll work out cases of discrimination against Ukrainians much more than anti-Semitism in Ukraine, let's be honest, and work out, we'll vote on a comprehensive bill. So what I'm asking is that I support pros with the definition of Ukrainianophobia and anti-Semitism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u132	Thank you. I'm betting on the 9th amendment of the People's Deputies of Pippa and the other National Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:20]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 11, Bobrowska. Please tell me, Samantha, are you going to insist on everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u133	I will insist on the part and continue my comments. You know, your time. I want to go back to why I think the bill is wrong today in this version of adoption. Because for football lovers, I want to remind you what happened during the 14th year, when funding was a huge part of the Russian Federation's football debates, the World Cup on the ban on Ukrainian symbols, red and black flags, and so on. It's absolutely fine work and fine work. And I'm so sorry and sorry that this bill is today. And we're going to this anti-Semitism ruler that's clearly coming from the Russian Federation. I want to remind you that the Russian Federation is a state that oppresses, destroys and breaks the identity, calling all the Russians and citizens of the Russian Federation. And I can talk for hours about the violation of the rights of Nazis there, so I have a request not to touch Ukraine in this regard. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u134	Would you like to answer? Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u135	Thank you. I'm going to comment on this, and I'm going to comment on this. For the sake of impreciseness, we're going to vote in favour of technical law in the decision of our committee, so any inaccuracies, they will be corrected. About what you asked for the legal term "Ukrainophobia." One of the recommendations that we have made to all the people's deputies at our committee meeting is that if we can't, and we can't really do it in this bill, please do a new bill where you'll write all of these moments after Ukrainephobia. And we'd be happy to support them at our committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 11th amendment of the People’s MP Pippa and other national deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:59]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 13, Frolow. Don't insist. 14th, Viatrowich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u137	Thank you. A very important amendment, once again, is written in clear legal terms that correspond with other laws of Ukraine, Ukrainianophobia, anti - Semitism, national, racial, and religious intolerance. And it's enough to compare what was in the first reading to make sure that the Committee's deviation looks at least odd. In fact, the amendment has been rejected because of the attention that I propose to the Holocaust to mention both the Holocaust and the deportation of Crimean Tatars, and in general to include all the basic manifestations of racial, national, religious hostility against persons of any nationality and religion. To deny such an approach is to deny the very foundations of our rightful democratic state. So please support this amendment, it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u138	I am betting on the 14th amendment of the People’s Deputy, Vátarović, and the committee suggests that it be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:11]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 16. National Deputy Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u139	You know, I'm continuing to go back to also insisting on a more complex approach to this bill, and why I don't support the idea of introducing a separate bill that deals with Ukrainianophobia. Because, first of all, I'm concerned that it won't pass through a committee of profile representing Mr. Dmitri's head today at the rostrum. Why? Because the representatives of this committee, especially those who represent the Fifth Column in the Supreme Council, are forced to question their loyalty and service to the State of Ukraine. That's why I still insist on work, and yet I propose that I introduce what is not only xenophobia, but what is Ukrainianophobia, which is related to both public statements, and the denial of the destruction of the Ukrainian state, and the production and distribution of any material that contains Ukrainianophobic expressions: damage, destruction of buildings, abuse of historical cultural religions, deliberate damage and destruction of cultural relics and memorable signs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u140	I'll bet you a vote. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u141	I'd like to comment on the trailer. Dear colleagues, when we discussed this bill and made an offer to the distinguished people's deputies for the development and submission to our committee of a new bill that would apply to Ukrainianophobia, I can assure you, no national MP who works on our committee has spoken against it. On the contrary, they said that a similar bill must really be drafted, please do so. So believe me, in order to say that we don't support a similar bill in our committee, we need to develop it, submit it, and look at the results. I can assure you that most national MPs may even unanimously support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u142	Thank you. I am betting on the 16th amendment of the People’s Deputies of Pippa and other national deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:47]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 21. Please, I understand, too, Bobrovska Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u143	I'd like to take three minutes and walk through my work, because I understand that we're going to be studying the history of Ukraine for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u144	Give me three minutes, please. Give me three minutes, and you won't insist on editing? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! You know, paradoxically, all of my amendments to anti-Semitism, I sat down, I studied, I proposed, I corrected the text, which was the original author of all the odious bills in this Supreme Council. And I think it's been done to make this bill look human, and we're not ashamed of it. At least without mistakes and with the world’s definitions of anti - Semitism. But it also hurts because I know what it is to be discriminated against by your nationality. I know very well, and I also feel my own family, Odessa, and Atonement. And I understand very well all the other more than 138 national minorities and nationalities that live in the Odessa region, and where they can speak calmly about the pride of being hazes, Bulgarians, Romanians, Moldovans, Jews, Greeks and so forth. And, you know, unfortunately, I often feel like I'm in a minority when the symbols of the Ukrainian state of certain cultural things that are relevant to our national holidays are stained. When all of this was destroyed during the Christmas celebration and so forth. I'm so sorry. And I'd like to ask this room once again when you vote in the finals for the bill, send it to work and not support it. Why? Because it has to be more complex and understandable, and it has to be more qualitative, and it has to apply not only to one nationality, but then to all of our multicultural diversity, which is actually proud of the state of Ukraine, and which shows an example, in particular, of the Russian Federation, that stubbornly pushes this narrative of anti-Semitism in Ukraine. I would like to emphasize and remind you that one of the last major discussions in Ukrainian society concerns Baba Jar. Happily, it is not the tragedy of talking about Babin Yar, but it is the money he spends on keeping Babin Jar in mind. And I'm sorry that instead of letting the state that's about to come out, it's going to be a huge 80-year-old nation to remember everyone who's been shot in Baba's Jar. What we're talking about today is that Russian oligarchs, which are included in the United States sanctions list, including in the sanctions lists of the states of Ukraine, today directly give money and actually use culture to bring here a Trojan horse and actually destroy history. And I'm sorry when committee leaders talk about that we should less finance the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, which actually brings back memories so that your children don't torture those scary people who can come from the East. And believe in the ORDLO and the Crimea, they may not stop. And without holding culture as a front and memory as a front, nothing is worth our boy from the army who doesn't know what he's protecting and what they're standing on. I'm asking you to return this bill to the entire room for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u146	Thank you. We don't put it to a vote. We've heard your position personally, I'm very divided, because I think there should be no discrimination in Ukraine at all about any sign of nationality. But let's make a presentation with you initiators of a bill that will solve this issue in a comprehensive way. Everyone who can join here I think it's going to be a project that will be supported by the maximum majority in the room. But I totally share. I'll pass on. 235 amendments to the National MP Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u147	Surprised, frankly, by the position of the Governing Body and the Committee: let's work on this, let's do something else, but let's do this. This is something that we would like to endorse in order to give Russia one more time to shout at the world that Ukraine is a fascist state, which in Ukraine seems to be a threat to anti-Semitism. But this law is dangerous not only in terms of the compromise of Ukraine in foreign politics but also in the internal one. Ukraine’s laws should be quality and balanced and logical, especially in sensitive issues such as national relations. The rejection of this amendment means that the authorities willfully divide Ukrainians into varieties and use the legislative process for pro-Russian provocations. By adopting this law, and in such a demonstrationally weak form, ignoring all logic, arguments and constructive corrections, you're opening the Pandora box, you're weakening Ukraine, you're strengthening Russia in Ukraine. Please be careful. Support the revision and do not support this provocative bill in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u148	I am betting on the 35th amendment of the People’s Deputy, Vetarović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:07]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The next is Amendment 42. Windshield, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u149	I want to thank both the Scientific and Expert Office, and the expert and public organizations, and the professional ministries that have called on us not to support this inconvenient provocation. I want to thank my colleagues, including the majority, who did not vote in favour of this trek and the abuse of the rule of law. And I want to go to those who voted in the first reading, hoping that the project will be corrected in the second reading. As you can see, our expectations have proved to be completely futile. To adopt a project like this is simply a humiliation of Parliament and a humiliation of Ukraine. And once again, it's a game for Russian propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u150	I am betting on a vote of 42 amendments to the People’s Deputy, Vátarović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:15.]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 45. National MP Vjatrović And I take it this is an extreme amendment, and then we go to the vote. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u151	This bill should either be brought into conformity with the Constitution or not at all. I understand why the fifth column of Russia is voting for him. But responsible MPs cannot vote in favour of such a bill. Parliament cannot condemn aggressive acts only against the Jews by demonstrating a rejection of the amendments that propose banning such manifestations against Ukrainians and people of any other nationality in Ukraine. This means a demonstration of the division of people into varieties or the need for separate laws to be passed tomorrow on ethnic Ukrainians, Crimean Tatars, Armenians, Poles, and so forth. It's an endless legal process that won't do anything. Think, fellows, what are we doing? Do not support this provocative bill in any way! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u152	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u153	Thank you. Colleagues, before the vote, I'd like to address you and say that our committee came out of our work alone. We analyzed the bill. Any national MP has the right to legislative initiative. We're analyzing this on the basis that we have the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we can't. With all due respect, I'm addressing all my colleagues right now, we've been discussing very fruitfully whether we can put the notion of Ukrainianophobia into the text of this law. All the lawyers said you couldn't do it, work on a separate law, pass, consider, and accept. Similar laws have been adopted in many European countries. It's only now that most of the Ukrainian Parliament decide whether to vote in favour or not. But from the point of view, we've been working as a profile committee by law. To blame us for working for someone is, I'll tell you exactly, irresponsible. We did our job.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've been approached by representatives of the European Solidarity faction, and they want to make some adjustments for confirmation. Do I get it right? Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u155	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to say right away that I'm going to bet on confirming a few amendments right now. And for starters, it's about the 12th amendment. It's only partially taken into account and refers to the interpretation of the word "anti-Semitism." I'd like to pay attention to the session room, and I understand that there are a lot of new deputies here for the next one. We are rapidly returning to the time of Yanukovich. There was such a national deputy then, the Kings, who is now involved in alcoholism and drug abuse somewhere in the Kremlin or Crimea. Thus he often attended such seminars for the Kremlin’s money and talked about anti - Semitism in Ukraine. And this actually started out to be really unpleasant things that led the Ukrainian Parliament to talk about anti-Semitism in Ukraine because of these bastards. Now I want to urge you, my friends, to think with your head what you're doing now, when you're giving this kind of bill to the aggressor country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u156	Thank you. The 12th amendment is taken into account by the committee in an editorial way. At the suggestion of Irina Volodymyrna, she wants to put her on the stand. So I'm putting it in the committee's office, as it's been taken into account. Dear colleagues, it is the committee's position as it has been taken into account. Please support and vote. [[12:55:22]] For 305 Decision taken. Please, Irina Volodymyrna, you're still talking about two amendments: 19 and 20. Do I get it right? Can I put them on confirmation? I'll give you my word. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u157	I'll take all the amendments that have been taken into account by the committee in an editorial way to get the session room's attention again on the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u158	Tell me about the repair number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u159	There is no anti - Semitism at the national level in Ukraine. Correction number is now 18th. Of course, there are cases of anti - Semitism at the level of the household, and that is what we need to talk about. But now you're giving your bill a very serious, powerful weapon to our opponents, our opponents, our enemies in the Kremlin, who are going to talk about anti-Semitism in Ukraine. There is no xenophobia or anti - Semitism in Ukraine. And really, if we're adopting an unbalanced law that violates the Constitution, you're only going to play the aggressor country to allow it to say that even the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is adopting legislation that claims that there is something similar in Ukraine. You repeat the King and some of you, please excuse the authors of this law, will end up doing the same in the Kremlin or in the Crimea with alcohol and drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u160	Thank you. This is now about 18 amendments. It's considered editorially by the committee. Irina Volodymyrny asks for the committee to be edited for confirmation. So I'm putting that editorial that was taken into account by the committee on an editorial basis for confirmation. 18th Amendment. Please support and vote. [[12:57:15.]] For 334 Decision taken. Irina Volodymyrna, you're still talking about the 19th and the 20th. Do I get it right? And that's it, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u161	The 19th amendment refers exactly to the call for harm to Jewish people. Obviously, similar calls should be punished by legislation. And the Criminal Code makes it very clear that xenophobia, anti-Semitism, should be severely punished by law. And what we're looking at right now is a simulation that is very similar to the actions of the government in essentially supporting the falsified Russian Federation elections in Ukraine. You know, there's never been a election forged by the Russian Federation at the consulates in Ukraine. And Zelenski, Kuleba, MZS, "servants" -- you all let that happen. And now it's very funny when it's said to the world that don't admit elections when you've played these forgeries. The same is true of this law. You now give the Russian Federation the right to talk about anti-Semitism in Ukraine, instead of actually punishing legally those cases of domestic anti-Semitism that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u162	I'm betting on a vote of 19 amendments. The committee counted it. Please support and vote. [[12:58:54]] For 343 Decision taken. And the extreme amendment we agreed on was 20. Irina Volodymyr, please. And then we go to voting for the law as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are now two Babin Yar memorial projects. Obviously, this is one of the greatest tragedies in human history, and in Baba's Jar, they were killed and killed by fascists not only by Jews but also by Roma — so were representatives of Ukrainian nationalists. This is a tragedy that must unite the nations. And it is very important that this memorial be financed by the State of Ukraine itself, bearing in mind that it is a national Ukrainian policy of power that unites society in condemning anti - Semitism, xenophobia, fascism in all its manifestations. And it's a shame that even before this project, authorities today allow the aggressor country to copy the most tragic pages of Ukrainian and world history. And you're doing the same thing with your bill right now, helping Moscow simply rewrite Ukrainian tragic history. Very.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u164	I'm betting on a vote of 20 amendments to the People's Deputies of Pippa and the rest of the people's deputies. The committee took her into account. So please support and vote. [[13:00:34]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this bill. So, with your permission, I'm voting on the committee's conclusion on the second reading, which sounds like that. Adopt the draft Anti-Semitism Prevention and Anti-Semitism Act in Ukraine (project No. 5109) in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal remedies. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and vote. [[13:01:17]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Then we go in the order of the day that we have. Yeah? There won't be any more requests, will there? Okay. We go to Bill 4517 – this is a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to regulate customs declarations for goods that fall under different commercial positions, according to the UCTZED, in accordance with the Customs Code of the European Union. This is Bill 4517, I'll remind you again. Before moving on, I propose that we consider the matter in a simplified way. It takes 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[13:02:18]] For 251 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Ulutin Denis Valeriovich, the First Deputy Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the settlement of customs declaration procedures. The aim of the bill is to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the legislation of EU member countries in the process of making customs declarations for goods of a large number of appointments classified in different codes. The bill proposes that article 267 of the Customs Code should be redrafted and that article 280 should be supplemented with the following rules: under the wishes of the declarants, the simplified declaration of batches of goods classified in different commodity items is permitted, according to the UTZED. The simplification of the declaration is that you can group goods with similar characteristics under the same code and describe them in one graph of the customs declaration. Considering that the implementation of the bill will contribute to the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU as part of the approximation of national customs legislation to the provisions of the EU Customs Code, please support draft registration number 4517. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u166	Are you done? All of it. Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Owl Aleksandro Georgievicz. Please, Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u167	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting considered Bill 4517. Overall, in support of the desire to bring Ukraine's Customs Code into line with European Union legislation on compliance with international legal obligations in the field of European integration, the Committee made the following observations. The proposed wording of article 267 makes it impossible to understand that the operation of the law only affects goods that fall under different commodity subheadings within one commercial position. Therefore, to prevent double - treatment, some clarifications are needed in this article. The main scientific and expert office also notes in its conclusion that some of the rules in this article do not comply with the Customs Code of the European Union. In accordance with the Customs Code of the European Union, the customs authority shall take a decision on the application of the simplified declaration procedure on the application of the declarant. Instead, in the proposed article, such a declaration will be made only at the request of a declarant carrying certain risks. The committee proposes to support the bill, to adopt it as a basis for further further elaboration in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u169	May I have a word with you, Mrs. Jujanini?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u170	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In fact, the draft law amending the Customs Code on the settlement of customs declarations for goods that fall under different commodity positions, according to the UCTED, in accordance with the European Code of Ukraine, is not new. These rules are not fundamentally new to customs legislation. More than 10 product subcategories under one classification code have been available for more than 10 years. This bill improves the situation a little bit from the point of view of adaptation to customs legislation, but it's not about the text of the bill itself, it's about whether this bill is strategic in the process of adapting national customs legislation to European legislation. I think from this point of view it's more technical and, more precisely, its implementation will depend precisely on adequate and correct mechanisms for its application, i.e. order and other sublegal documents. We already have a questionable experience in adopting the Law on Authorized Economic Operators. Do you remember how many praiseworthy ones have been there? So right now, the only operator that's been doing this for over a year can't use any simplification because they're not approved. A little better, but the same situation is inconvenient from the point of view of implementation of standards, there is a situation of common transit. Please tell me, when we talk about adapting customs legislation to European Union legislation, in addition to adopting amendments to the Customs Code, is there anything else we should do? And all responsibility lies with the executive authority now. In fact, incomplete information or false information is not provided in the parliamentary address.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u172	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u174	Anna Constantine's speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, on the one hand, a nice initiative is to establish a simplified declaration of batches of goods that include goods that fall under different commodity sub-items, according to the ZED CCT, within one trading position of the ZED CCT. As the explanatory note states, this is done in accordance with Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. Yet the question arises. On the one hand, it really regulates European norms, but on the other hand, in Europe, such a clearance remains behind the customs authorities. And we have this blurry, according to this bill, just according to the declarant's statement, that is, we don't even have to agree with the customs authorities. I think there might be a tax abuse here. And given that 54 percent of Ukrainians consider customs to be the most corrupt organ in Ukraine, and considering that even after your great fight against smugglers, when they were removed from their jobs by 127 employees in April of this month, after the RNA meeting on smuggling, I want to tell you that 122 of them have been reinstated and continue to smuggle. And this whole fight against smugglers was called zero. And probably if we want to improve the revenue in the budget from the blurry, and today we have a Ukrainian customs budget through the corrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no more willing to discuss? Yes. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, briefly what this law is about. The correct initiative, if you import a single batch, you can very simply file a declaration if you have a different category under the CTZED. And in the first reading, you have to be sure, it'll help the business get through customs faster. But I fully support the previous speaker on customs results. We've heard about the sanctions on smugglers. And even the secretary of the PNBO said that we would have an additional 300 billion. Here's a question. Why can't we see 300 of these billions in this year's budget (recast only, at best, by 8 billion) and even more in the next year's budget? Isn't that how sanctions work, or did we again have populism, not real problems? We support this bill, but the customs, as the smuggling remained, unfortunately, remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. There are no more who wish to speak. The National Deputies are requested to take their seats and we are moving on to a decision under the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Settlement of Customs Declarations on Goods which fall under various commodity proposals under the UCTZED, in accordance with the Customs Code of the European Union (project registration number 4517). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Then I propose to the committee to adopt draft Law No. 4517. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:13:25]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. We are going into question 5232 -- this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Border Service to improve the use and application of enforcement, military technology and armed forces by the Ukrainian State Border Service. So I'm going to make an offer to consider this issue in a simplified way. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[13:14:12]] For 245 Decision taken. I invite a member of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of Zdebski Jury Viktorovich. Both from the author and the committee, please, four minutes ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u179	Honorable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine and Honorable Foreigners! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Border Service of Ukraine on Improving the Order of Use and Application of Force, Military Technology and Armament of the National Border Service of Ukraine (Registration No. 5232). The legislation currently in force that regulates the order of use of physical force, special means, weapons and military equipment as a special component of the Ukrainian State Border Service does not take into account all the characteristics and characteristics of the operations of our border guards. Yes, the lack of completion of the State border demarcation process makes it necessary for the State Border Service to take additional measures aimed at strengthening the protection of the state border, strengthening the state border regime and the border regime, which, in turn, is closely linked to the active use of special enforcement, military technology, and arms. At this time, the issue of border crossings of surface checks on persons, goods and means of transport located in a border strip controlled by the border area is not addressed at the point of entry and checkpoint. That is, it is not possible to test a detained wrongdoer for things that are banned or restricted or that present a threat to the life or health of a person. The police are taking steps to interact with the border guards. Imperfect legislative bases in part on the completion of the administrative procedure for shaping violators of the Ukrainian state border regime and bringing the latter to justice give rise to cases of malicious disobedience to the legal requirements of border guards, accompanied by threats to their lives and health toward the latter. And the order of use of physical force, special means, weapons, and military equipment by the personnel of the Ukrainian State Border Service, as defined in the instructions and instructions, is not always on their side. Therefore, taking into account the above-mentioned threats, which are constantly, every day, with our border guards, to protect the latter in carrying out their duties, it is possible after a series of changes to the Ukrainian State Border Service Act have been introduced. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has expressed a number of observations to the draft law. In particular, it was noted that some special measures, firearms, and technology were overly detailed. The answers to all the comments were reasoned in a letter from the State Border Service of Ukraine and discussed in detail during committee hearings. The bill does not require additional payments, but it will be financed by funding that comes to the maintenance of the Ukrainian State Border Service. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Border Service Act on improving the order of use and enforcement of measures of coercion, military engineering and the use of weapons by the State Border Service (Registration No. 5232) on the basis of the first reading to be accepted as a basis. Thank you. And glory to our bordermen!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Sure. Please register: two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, Please give the floor to Ukrainian national deputy Odarchenk Andrija Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u181	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Paul Suško.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u182	Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u183	Paul Susko, deputy head of the "Serve of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, this is a very important and necessary bill that I support and call upon you. This law had to be passed earlier. The proposed changes are aimed exclusively at helping border guards to secure Ukraine’s national and economic security, effectively resisting new threats. That is the purpose of the bill. I am convinced that the State Border Service deserves high trust and authority in society by its activities and openness, and if these changes are initiated by the service, they are truly necessary and painful. The state begins with borders, and security begins with borders. We need to keep this in mind. I ask you to support this bill. Glory to the State Foreign Service of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u184	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy Motka Igor Fedorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u185	The hammer. Request to give the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u186	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill because the border guards are at the level of all our heroes defending our country. More than 70 people put their heads behind her. Sadly, people who have disappeared are still unknown their fate. So we have to provide the border guards with the ability to resist (both the specialist and the use of weapons). Because what happened in July of this year, when three unknown people in the territory of the Suma region across the border from the Russian Federation took away their weapons and inflicted bodily harm on border guards who had not been able to use them in response, it was a disgrace. And we have to do everything we can to now vote on this bill in the first reading, and I think it's a reduced procedure to the second. The only thing I agree with colleagues from GNEU's comments is that excessive detail reduces the use of weapons by our border guards. If you do not consider something because of unforeseen circumstances, you will thus complicate the ability of our border guards to resist. I'm not going to go into detail. It's all in this bill. I saw each team with my own eyes, because in the 17th year, my colleagues and I (Sergij Shahov will not let me lie) went all over the Ukrainian-Russian border. And, in large numbers, the work is still unstarted. We're voting for it, we're working on a bill. And all we have to do for our defenses is hurry because the enemy isn't sleeping.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u188	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni. Please, Alexeiovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u189	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Once again, we are asked to strengthen the power structures, my friends. And at this time, in the state. We have made many such decisions. At that time, three hours ago in the state, a car was fired at the first assistant to President Sergey Scheffer. And so far, nothing from this rostrum has said anything about it, as if nothing has happened. Friends, this is an extraordinary event that we need to talk about in the rostrum, and we need to hear from the heads of law enforcement. Today, all law enforcement agencies are headed by Vladimir Zelensky. Not just people, but people closest to him, like Bakanov, friend, brother, sister-in-law, and so on. And what happens in the state at that time? I only remember that in 97 years, Paul Lazarenko, an attack on him. We are being shot at entering Kiev, an injured driver. I want the driver to recover as soon as possible. And I demand that we hear the answers that happened. I want to tell all of us, the country's banditry is happening. The government loses control of the situation in the state while the power structures are in pursuit of opposition, conducting interrogations, monitoring, provocations, and at this time such crimes are committed. I just want to remind you, there are a lot of versions now, and I want to say that the media have reported that there has been a conflict with Vladimir Zelensky recently, that he's been moving things out of the President's Office. We see what wars are going on inside this power, how they're bringing down Speaker Razumkov and so on and so forth. Have these wars come to the point of shooting each other? Guys, this is a very serious event. This means that every Ukrainian citizen is in danger. They're supposed to be here to report what happened. This cannot be the case, we must be a legal state in which the security of every citizen is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u190	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u191	Please pass the word to Sergio Rachmanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u192	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I support this bill, it will be supported by our faction. I call on all my colleagues to support him. Of course, this law will significantly improve the working conditions of the State Border Service staff, protect their lives and health, and certainly affect the safety of our borders if approved. I'd like to mention one very important observation by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which pointed to the inability to use a service horse as a measure of influence. I don't think that's going to stop us from adopting this bill, at least because there are no service horses in the State Border Service. But instead, I sincerely hope that the attention that today attracts to the State’s Foreign Service will remain. Because, for reasons unknown to me, the State’s Border Service, despite its important responsibilities, is constantly in the status of a footnote. Lack of funding, lack of equipment are the age-old woes of the State Border Service, the misery of those people who face the enemy first. And I think it's appropriate for me to go back to the discussion of giving the State Border Service the status of the first category of government funds, and to go back to the discussion about the possibility of creating a separate central authority from the State Border Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to take their own. Who else wants it? Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. And we're moving on. I see, yes. Please proceed to the vote after this. First of all, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u195	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, the "Trust" MP Group supports the position that has been expressed by many speakers with what needs to be taken care of today to create conditions for the activities of military personnel, foreign service workers. It's very important -- their authorization, their ability to implement their review functions, their retention of the previous one, and so on. But I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that this is primarily a matter for the Committee on Law Enforcement. I want to remind you that when we discussed the issue of the subsidiaries of the Bureau of Economic Security, individual committees also wanted to address the issue. This is how we balance the Code of Criminal and Criminal Procedure, so please pay attention to that. But we will support the first reading directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u196	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. I would like to invite you to the words of Anatolia Petrovich Burmić, "The Opposition Platform for Life." And after that, I ask the national MPs to take their seats, and we will vote. Please, Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that today, what is the situation today. Today, the Foreign Service joins the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's abracadabra at all. This was designed for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to take part in some sort of smuggling and settlement. Today, as the reporter said, the border guards are holding, and all other actions are being carried out by the police. It's all wrong. Today, by giving the same powers to the border guards, they will fight among themselves, and so this is half. Today, to stop this, we need to divide these two offices. The foreign service must be independent and carry out its duties as border guards, and the police must. Being under one roof, letting one and the other question one and the other, that's just a negative, nothing will happen. So I suggest you divide these two services and all the problems will fall away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Border Service Act on improving the use and application of measures of coercion, military engineering and armed forces by the State Border Service of Ukraine (project registration number 5232). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:29:08]] For-300 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Please, the procedure is Motovlover.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u199	I ask you to change the order of the day and move on now and put to the vote laws 6078, 5851. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u200	Thank you. 6078 is the Order of the Russian Federation. This question was raised, it was on the Conciliation Council, both me and Helen Constantine, and other colleagues. And 50. And the other one is he's in the daytime. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to Mr. Andrey Motovilowitz that we now move on to issues 6078 and 50. Yes, please. Please support and vote. [[13:30:22]] For 261 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you not to disagree, because we're starting our consideration of Bill 6078, this is the draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's declaration on the illegality of the election of deputies of the State Duma of the Russian Federation in 2021. First, this issue requires a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the session. To do that, we need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[13:31:11]] For 315 Decision taken. Then I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. It also takes 226 votes. Please support and vote, Your Honor. [[13:31:36]] For 325 I also suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified way. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[13:32:01]] For-286 I invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Alexander Alexandrovitch Network, to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u201	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting on September 21, 2021, discussed the holding of illegal elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied areas of Crimea, Sevastopol and the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk on September 17-19, 2021. In view of the urgent need to respond to existing challenges and threats, with a view to countering the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, in accordance with article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the National Deputies of Ukraine decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the illegality of the election of deputies of the State Duma of the Russian Federation in 2021. The application draws attention to the fact that on September 17-19, 2021, illegal elections were held by members of the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, and emphasizes violations by the occupying State of international humanitarian law. Attention is also drawn to the international community that, for the first time in the history of the Russian Federation as a member state of the OSCE, the Bureau of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has failed to monitor the electoral process to the State Duma of the Russian Federation by representatives of the OSCE international mission in accordance with democratic standards. In a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it defines such elections as illegal, illegal and the State Duma of the Russian Federation is illegal and calls on the international community to assess the fraudulent elections and the facts of illegal voting. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and to endorse the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the relevant statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u202	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, I understand that there is a need to discuss this issue. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy of Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u203	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u204	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I hope you've been watching what happened on September 17-19. For the first time, these elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation took place for three days in connection with the SOVID. With SOVID, which had not been defined by the Russian Federation for a long time, she hid the number of her patients and, so on, did not let her people out of our territory. You know the ennumerator who works with the Crimea and the ORDLO, how many people couldn't even go to Ukraine, even for humanitarian purposes, and how many IDPs are still working on the ORDLO line, and how many students couldn't get to Ukraine. Nevertheless, they came up with a story to make an electronic vote. About 250,000 of ORDLO’s territory participated in electronic voting: 200 were voted by electronics, 50 were taken to Rostov to vote with Russian passports. And I'm very surprised how they voted in electronic form, because not always, you understand how they catch the Internet there, and how people have access to the Internet and to the will to find out. So in fact, and on this point, how true the results have been over the years, they raise doubts. But, of course, what we are voting today and finally, is, unfortunately, not on Tuesday, but today we are voting for the position of the Supreme Council, and we do not recognize the elections as legitimate those that were held and voted in Ukraine. But I would like to point out that I am very ashamed that today there is a faction in this Supreme Council that has hailed "the only Russia" with a victory that hopes that these relations between the state of Ukraine and the Russian Federation will warm up. And I am very sorry that this disrespect is shown not only to the state of Ukraine, but to all the dead, the wounded, those who serve while going there, going to negotiations that go beyond the state of Ukraine. I ask the Supreme Council to support this statement, it must be both outspoken and announced to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u206	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Soboljevo Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u207	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the Fatherland faction calls for support for a draft decision not to recognise elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation, which unlawfully took place in the occupied Crimea and in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. I want to point out that for the first time, and this is a special feature of these elections to the State Duma, for the first time, it was impossible to observe elections by the OSCE (the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe). And the second thing I want to focus on is the system and the future for us. We all welcomed the creation of the Crimea Platform. But I want to point out that maybe we need to do everything we can to get this structure to respond quickly to the situations that we're talking about today. There have already been two arrests of an activist of the Crimean Tatar people and his colleagues, and elections to the State Duma -- when the Crimean Platform is unfortunately silent. The questions to the MSI are why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the National Deputy Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust". Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u209	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely, the fact that people from Lugansk and Donetsk regions went to Russia to vote is unacceptable. But let us take note of the situation in Ukraine today. 18 communities are 500,000 people who have been deprived of constitutional rights by two heads of the Donetsk and Lugansk military administrations. Isn't that fascism? Isn't it stealing people's souls and hearts? Can you please tell me if this vachanal doesn't end in our country or not? Who will be responsible for robbing the Donetsk and Luhansk region of peaceful Ukraine today? It's not for a bracelet, it's not for two billion. The damage done in Lugansk by the head of the Haitian military and civil administration in 22 billion dollars was killed by 16 people. Also, 40 percent of the forest burned down — a technological disaster and an environmental disaster. Who will be responsible? And these bastards didn't even pay attention to "The Great Seven," which turned to the CBC to hold elections in two cities -- Severodoneck and Lysichan. I'm not talking about the cities of the Station Lugansk district or the Triochizbank. It's a very difficult situation. I am again addressing President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. Note the villains who lie to you today and blind your eyes, rob the area. It's the face of a whole majority. 18 communities deprived of the constitutional right to vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u210	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, a group called Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, the Russian Federation has completed the formation of a totalitarian political regime, a totalitarian regime. In a situation where whatever election is taking place there now, there will be a party of power, whatever it is called. And whatever international observers may observe, their observations will be purely formal if they are allowed there at all. We should remember and call the right things our names. This will end in Russia when there is either a coup d'état and a coup d'état removed from President Putin's power, or there will be a Midan or a Revolution. The state of Russia is an aggressor for Ukraine. The state of Russia is an occupation of Ukraine. The political repression that has been carried out, including with regard to Ukrainian citizens who commit political killings, has resulted in the death of our military personnel on the front every day. The Minsk process doesn't work, and the agreement with the Russian Federation doesn't matter. But at the same time, colleagues, we're opening up, knowing about that totalitarian regime and the result, we're opening the voting areas in our territory, which is the most disgraceful thing in this situation. At the consulates in Kiev, in Kharkiv, in my hometown of Lviv, realizing that it is the Russian Federation's responsibility to pay attention to all interstate agreements and to our territorial integrity. We are for taking the appropriate decision in the walls of the Supreme Council, and we will remember once and for all that there is no legitimate State Duma for us. And let the PNBO continue, expand the list of sanctions it's doing so successfully. We also propose to the Supreme Council a ruling, a draft ruling where we call for recognition by the FSB and the Russian Federation's GRU by terrorist organizations that are engaged in destabilizing our territory of Ukraine. Let's do it, guys! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u212	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Three other national deputies asked for one minute of the motive: Volosin Oleg Anatoliyevich, then Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, and then Mezenceva Maria Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! Of course, throughout Ukraine, including Crimea and the entire Donetsk region, the Luhansk region, elections are to be held exclusively to the authorities of Ukraine. But for this to happen, it is necessary for a valid authority and this entire parliament to do everything possible to bring these territories back, to bring back, first of all, citizens. When was the last time the Minsk Process was discussed in this room, or in principle the peace process concerning Donbas? There are constant statements that nothing is moving, but the Minsk Accords are not being implemented. But no one wants to do just that. Why was it already said in our country that half a million citizens were deprived of their right to vote in a controlled territory? What signal did we send to uncontrollable territories? The fact that the residents of Donbas are not interested in anyone, is that all they care about is the hurrah-patriotic conversations in this rostrum, the way we're heroically fighting Russia with all these other claims. Finally, we have to take the brothers and make a deal. Yes, our political power stood up and stood up for the dialogue. For the same dialogue that most Ukrainian citizens support. They support direct encounters and direct negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u214	The word is given to Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u215	The Supreme Council of Ukraine does not recognize the illegal elections to the Russian State and the most illegal spirit, but Zelensky admits. Because it was only Zelensky who opened the consulates where illegal elections were held and where there were first military criminals on the lists, such as Prilepin, who were directly involved in the Donbassa war. You, your authority has legitimized these elections. How can we encourage other countries not to recognize them? Therefore, we require a temporary commission of inquiry to understand who granted permission to hold these elections. Indeed, the Crimean platform is open with such a puffos. Where is her reaction to illegal elections? And the last. The elections to the State were held at a distance. We listen carefully to Zelensky, who is already throwing stones, that the next elections in Ukraine will be held on the Internet. We can't build Russia in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u216	The word is given to Mezentsa Maria Sergiyevna. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, let's argue what happened after the Crimea platform? Literally yesterday, Turkey, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, claims to the world without fear of pressure from Moscow, that they do not officially recognize the so-called elections to the State Duma, to the Parliament of the Russian Federation. The EU is still strong in June with sanctions mechanisms, one of the four individual sanctions packages against individuals and legal persons in Crimea continues. Importantly, 27 countries are united in the highest executive direction around these sanctions, the whole EU, friends, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that's not the whole list of the civilized world that we're going to join today. Half a million passported Ukrainians in the occupied Ukrainian Crimea and Donbas. Why does Russia do this? Friends, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u218	Thank you, Maria Sergiyevna. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. And once again, this is a question that we immediately raised on the Conciliation Council, both me and Olena Constantine. And I'm very glad that it was supported and embodied in the resolution, in the draft decree that we're about to vote on. I realized that considering that we would all be able to see one of the most massive support in this room, because no nation could make its own choices in our territory (the dot). Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the bill "On the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the illegality of the election of deputies of the State Duma of the Russian Federation in 2021" (registration number 6078). I'm proposing to the committee to accept in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. [[13:48:12]] For 322 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows! Dear colleagues, according to the change in the order of affairs of the day, we are now going to Bill 5851. This bill is discussed in a second reading. I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich. And I want to ask you, someone is going to insist.? [[B in m in s a l in]] No one will, will they? They will, won't they? The Coltunovich will be, I see, Nina Petrovna too. Well, then let's go to the repairs. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Don't insist. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u219	Thank you, sir. I want our colleagues not to be afraid, I have only one amendment, not a thousand. So I would just like to draw attention to what we suggested in Amendment No. 3 to complete part of Article 11 of the Law on Monetarys and Monetary Transactions, just by saying that. That banks, as well as international payment systems, we're adding them, we're exchanging information about the uncertainty of customer accounts and accounts opened by non-residents with a view to carrying out monetary supervision of their customers' currency transactions. And then in the next paragraph, we're also adding international payment systems besides banks. We understand that, in principle, then we will be able to get as complex as possible into the process as possible. And in our view, just adding international payment systems would be relevant. I'd like to take it into account. If there is certainly an excellent position for a committee or a subcommittee, we are also willing to accept it, but with arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u220	The committee's position is brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u221	The amendment is rejected, we do not support the author's position. And we left it in the editorial that was proposed for the Supreme Council's review in the right column. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u222	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 3th Amendment of People's Deputy Koltunović. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:25]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Please, 4 revisions then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u223	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, I'm very surprised that we're now considering this bill, which is derivative. We shouldn't be looking at him. There should be other bills first, and then this one. What is the main question of the National Bank that is enshrined in the Constitution? This is the stability of the national monetary unit. What are you doing? You're cleaning up a constitutionally defined function of the National Bank, making the NBA independent of the state, and at the same time opening a door for foreigners, for the monitoring body, the NBA Council. What about the monetary sovereignty of the country? And that's the same thing that we see today: the same foreigners on the Naftogazu Supervisory Board that brought him to the damage. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u224	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 4 votes, and the committee is proposing that it be rejected, by the People's Deputy Puziyczuk. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:04]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Bondarev. Is he insisting? Please, 5 revisions. National Deputy Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine! This law provides that any banks will exchange information about you, about your accounts for their own reasons. Nevertheless, I propose that I include my amendment, vote for it. It refers to the fact that banks can actually exchange information, but only for the purpose of carrying out monetary supervision of the currency transactions that are carried out by customers through these banks. Not that any banks will be exchanging with each other. The client has nothing to do with this bank, the bank sends a request and gets the relevant information. Today we have built -- no, not us, but the power of the former and this one -- such a monster in the form of a National Bank. Today we are giving additional opportunities for influence, illegal influence on business. I do propose to support my amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u226	I'll bet on a vote of 5 on the amendment of the People's Deputies of Bondarev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:35]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Polakov. Are you insisting? Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, these are all very important remedies that we can reduce the dependence on the future of our even greater Nutzbank. And I propose to vote in favour of the deletion of chapter two, paragraph two, and of the corresponding article on the exchange of information on customer accounts to bank accounts opened by non-residents. Let's change, let's say, to the nice bills that we passed last plenary week, when some "ministers of the people" told us about our very strong currency and Nazbank's good work. Please vote, put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u228	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 6 of the People's Deputies of Polyakov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:52]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next up, Rapina. Don't insist. Next. Polakov, amendment number 8. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Puziczuk, amendment number nine. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u229	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. I have a question for the reporter you'd like to hear the answer to. I think the Ukrainians are also very interested in this question. Dear reporter, will you answer or will the adoption of this law affect the effectiveness of the exercise of monetary control? And how do you plan to minimize the risks of using information obtained by banks for purposes that are not related to monetary supervision?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u230	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u231	Your Honor, you are absolutely right that this bill 5851, it goes into the complex as an addition to Bill 5850. But I'd like to calm everyone down and say that the change in the value of the additions does not change. We're going to adopt Bill 5851 first, and we're going to have to take 5850 with you. You're absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u232	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 9 of the Puzichuk People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:37]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 10th, Polyakov. Don't insist. And 13th, Puzichuk. Are you insisting? Please, 13th, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u233	Mr. Reporter, you rightly point out that after this bill there is another anti-Ukrainian bill aimed at weakening the economic security of our state. This is a bill that nullifies the function of the NBA to ensure the stability of our Ukrainian monetary unit. And that bill will reduce the ability of the NBA to pursue an effective monetary and credit policy that will make the NBA even more independent of the state and help drive the National Bank of Ukraine into even greater cabal to foreigners, and it will certainly not contribute to the economic development of our state. And tell me, is this for Ukraine and for the Ukrainians, or is it for some foreign beneficiaries? And answer that question. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u234	Thank you. Before you answer, I continue for 15 minutes the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please take your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u235	Thank you for asking. It's not like it's the text, it's political. I just want to say that it's very good that we don't need to adopt laws unanimously, and that only requires most of the constitutional composition of Parliament. So there are different kinds of views in different deputies, and most of them, it should adopt laws that it considers appropriate and right for the reconstruction of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 13th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:52]] For-65 The decision is not taken. We've been through some adjustments that we've been taking into account. Now there's, right now, a second, which is to confirm, I understand. Yeah? Who's it gonna be? Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Which one do you want for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u237	11 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u238	Now, one second, I'll find her. 11th, it's taken into account editorially. Please, Mother Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u239	Can we start the timer again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u240	Please run Mommy's timer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u241	Dear National MPs, before that, the bill was very good in describing the requirements of article 116 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, the Constitution of Ukraine. And everyone, in fact, even waved, both the authorities and the authorities, and the majority. Between our first and second readings, we have come up with a bill that has nothing to do with the Bureau of Economic Security, one that is suspended for two months from the start of the Bureau of Economic Security. What part of the Rules includes this law? Why is it counted? Who looked at her and everything else? I would like to draw your attention to the need to introduce a new bill, rather than to make legal amendments to laws that have nothing to do with receiving any or all of the appropriate commands. Please place an order on the count. And such things should not simply be in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u242	The only one, not for consideration, but for confirmation. And I give the floor to the reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u243	Sadly, a respected colleague does so in life that the Supreme Council is even wrong. Therefore, we must look into our eyes with boldness. And what we sometimes do for the first time is we create some kind of economic, law enforcement organ, and we give certain terms, it doesn't always happen on time. And I think we're correcting a mistake. And it's not like that when we change the term of six months to eight months, not twice. It's not a stretch, it's an objective reality. And we must correct our mistakes. So I'm asking everyone to support the 11th amendment taken into account by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, let's do it again. Amendment number 11, it's counted by the committee. Author. I'm sorry, National MP Mamka wants to bet on confirmation. So I'm betting on confirmation of the 11th amendment that was made by the committee to the committee. Please support and vote. [[14:01:57]] For 248 The edit is left in the same line as that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said. Well, listen carefully. We went on for 15 minutes. No, we're voting now. Yes, thank you. Is there still to be confirmed? Please, what kind of correction? Who will report? Nina Petrovna, right? Please, Nina Petrovna. What amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u245	12 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u246	12th? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u247	Mr. Reporter, you're not letting us vote in favour of this bill because of the previous 11 amendments. You're talking about errors that need to be corrected. You realize that even after this organ, after the newly created baby, whose actions are delayed for another two months, even the following is not accepted. That is to say, Parliament, in adopting the law on the creation of a new law enforcement body, was not aware at all conceptually when and how it should work. So, unfortunately, I'm very ashamed that you made this amendment at night, and the same amendment is in 5,600 and in all the draft laws that are only possible today. Please vote in favour of this bill without amendment 11. Otherwise we can't vote just because you don't realize by violating 116 articles of the Rules, you're pushing things that aren't acceptable to everyone. Please note this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u248	Look, I can only put the 12th, because you asked me to put it on confirmation. The 11th we voted, it's already what it is. So, great colleagues, you insist on putting the 12th on confirmation? I'll bet you 12 acknowledgments for confirmation. It's counted by the committee. So please support and vote. [[14:03:57]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there another one? What else do you want? You want a 1-y, right? Please, Mother Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u249	My position is still to confirm the amendment, because the law then, in your logic, must be called another: to make changes there. and making amendments to the Baby Act to the Transitional Regulations. That's the way it's supposed to be. If speakers or other national MPs say how many mistakes were made, I'll tell you a little bit more: there's not two months later a bill that authorizes a new law enforcement agency. There is no law. There is an organ that is not launched, and essentially without the authority vested in it by law. But such powers. We don't have a lead: the State Bureau of Investigation, the SAP is the same. By our vote, we killed the law enforcement agencies. Do you want to do another organ like that? It is necessary to require the authority to run, not the transfer of the work of a law enforcement authority. I'm betting on confirmation of the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-22-m0.u250	I'm betting on a vote of 1 amendment. It is counted by the committee, so I ask the National Deputies to support and vote. [[2:05:49]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this bill and we are moving to a vote. Now, one second. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 11 of the Law on Monetarys and Monetary Transactions concerning Banks' functions as currency supervisors (project registration number 5851). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:06:53]] For 260 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we're not done yet. Wait a minute, we've moved on for 15 minutes. I have an offer. We will not be able to consider a full bill, but we turned to our colleagues and said that we agree with all the factions. We have five choices to run with dates. These are projects: 5634, 5768, 5806, 6056 and 6057. There won't be any objection to voting them without discussion, will there? Dear colleagues, then I'm making a proposal, as it's supposed to be, to take into account the Committee's proposals in general, Project 5634. This is a draft decree for the appointment of the successive elections of the Pochrovsky Rural Head of the region of Nnipropetrov. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:08:06]] For 323 Decision taken. I repeat, we're all voting with the committee's proposals, because there's a question on the dates, they're all presented in the committee's proposals. I'll take the next 5768. In conclusion, the committee decided to adopt, on the basis of the committee’s proposals, a draft Ordinance on the Assignment of the Stepian Rural Leadership of the Mikolai district of Mikolaiiv. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:08:53]] For 326 Decision taken. The next draft of Decree 5806 is a draft Order on the appointment of the post elections of the Dobropelian City Head of the Donetsk Region. I'm proposing to the committee to take the Order as a whole. There's no committee proposal here, is there, Alina? None. So please support and vote. (NORMAL PHONE RINGING) 6056.) [[2:09:31]] For 328 Decision taken. The next 6057, the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Laken Rural Head of the Ternopil region of Ternopil region, also deals with the adoption of the Order as a whole, as proposed by the Committee. Please support and vote. [[14:10:07]] For 326 Decision taken. And the final decision. Draft Decision on the Assignment of Elections of the New Guinean Village Head of the Žitomir Region of the Zitomir Region (Decision No. 6056). It is also a matter of accepting a general decision. Please support and vote. [[14:10:38]] For 326 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one last announcement. The National Deputy of Ukraine Sobolev, Sergey Vladislavovich, has asked to take my vote "for" Order 6078 into account in the election to the State Duma of the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
