ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare to register. As a reminder, the registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, with a sensory button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:06:05]] There are 193 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Dmitri Alexandrovich Nalotov. [[Applause]] Welcome from my colleagues! I wish you the best, health first, your family and loved ones. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. In accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulations, we have up to 30 minutes on Wednesday to speak with the Ukrainian national deputies on the announcement of applications, reports. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u2	Deputy Gus, 19th constituency. Dear friends, today on April 28, 1947, in the territory of then Communist Poland, the Communist Polish regime launched the Vistula. Not everyone in this room knows that not all Ukrainians know that 150,000 Ukrainians, including my family, are part of my family, and many families present in this Chamber of Ukrainian National Deputies have been evicted from territories where Ukrainians have lived for thousands of years. It's Dutch, it's Lemkishte, it's Boykishte, it's Pretzel, it's Lubashte. These Ukrainians were violently raped, murdered, because of the humiliation evicted by the Polish Communist regime on the so - called former German lands under the German border. Sadly, some Ukrainians found themselves in a concentration camp in Java. Ukrainians, especially the young generation, should now know that after World War II our fellow citizens were in concentration camps, unfortunately, Polish, thousands of people were killed, particularly those who participated in the underground Ukrainian Insurgency Army and the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. About this date, about the Vistula, we should all keep in mind. This is a scary page of Ukrainian history, a page that has separated families. Because my grandfather Paul Konzura was evicted here in Ukraine, and his brother Stach Konzura was evicted under German lands. Many of these families have been separated. We Ukrainians should keep that in mind. Regrettably, Parliament’s leadership today could put in place a bill where many of the deputies in this room are: Irina Konstankević, Sofia Fedina, Vladimir Vjatrović, and I, in particular, am coauthors. This bill is not an anti-Polish bill, this bill condemning the actions of the Communist Polish regime, and this bill, which is supposed to shed the truth and justice of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainians on those disturbing and terrible events of 47. So, dear friends, I'd like us to pay a moment of silence to honor all those killed Ukrainians, all those murdered, despised people who were 150,000 in 47, from ethnic lands to other territories. Please honor the moment of silence of our fellow citizens. Thank you. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u3	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u4	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Parliament must reflect the will of the people. As representatives of the Ukrainian society, we need to act clearly in the direction given by the electorate. Today, the voters are telling us exactly about the tariffs and their reductions. And Parliament is failing to make the right decisions. Parliament is not counted with the will of people who today cannot pay too high a price for electricity, for gas. Colleagues, as of today, Parliament is not struggling, including with raiding. The colossal record of the raid goes all over the country. We have a steady increase in the number of people who lose their land. I remember the 18th year when farmers came here to Parliament and told terrible stories. I'll remind you of the incident in Sullivan, when a farmer had his wife killed in front of him, cut off his wife's limbs to make him give up the land. Colleagues and a lot of other facts. And unfortunately, most of these raids are covered by the judicial system and the law enforcement authorities. And here comes the raid, the colleagues, the lobbyists, and this sort of raiding is going on most of the time from this room. We should not create a temporary commission of inquiry -- by the way, it's registered and co-authored by Timoshenko from Fatherland and Taras Batenko -- about what's going on in the higher echelons of power and how they lobby for their interests by covering up certain positions and parliamentary mandates. It's people's lives, colleagues, it's their business. Let's finally figure out why people in the same Novoselica lost land, why without their knowledge, they gathered congregations and re-registered their property and their land for today. Today this land is not sown; today they have lost their crops, and communities do not receive land taxes. Colleagues, and to this day they don't know if they trust the law, they want to do it, but this law works against people, 1,100 acres has been stolen from people. I thank Taras Batenka of the Future Group, who passed the word, and he is also a co-author, a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the facts of the raid and the facts of the lobbying of such cases, let's say, and the "breaking" in the higher echelons of power, including among us in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u5	Thank you. Dmitry Black, "Serial of the People" faction. Take the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, Maxim Bujansky, 25th District, "Serve of the People" faction. Dear friends, on April 28, 1945, the Soviet forces finally launched the Reichstag storm. Today, on April 28, 2021, in Kiev, in the capital city of our country, there will be a march of fans of the Essesian division of Galician, the 14th Division of Waffen SS. Tell me, if it isn't disgrace and shame, then what shame and shame look like. We are a victorious country, your parents have given up their lives to win the Third Reich, your parents have defeated Nazism. I have people standing next to me whose grandparents were in Buchenwald. Tell me how it happens. Tell me, each of you, what we've done is not what's going on. Tell me what we have to do so it doesn't happen. I think this shame lies on each of us: SS men march on the streets of Kiev. Imagine, Ukraine after Belarus -- the second country was affected by the number of deaths in World War II. How did this happen? 6 million Ukrainians were killed, 7 million Ukrainians fought Nazism in the Red Army, how did that happen? We honor the memory of the victims of concentration camps, we remember the loss, someone says "never again," and here again, the SS walk the streets of the capital again. I believe that the Supreme Council should take action, to the extent that it does not. This is unacceptable, the heroization of Nazism is unacceptable. They don't go to London, they don't go to Paris, they don't go to Berlin, they go to Kiev. Please pay attention, this is a disgrace and a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u7	Arsenius Pusharenko, "Serial of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u8	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! During the days of the Armor, fire - related training of foresters and rescue workers took place. This was where thousands and thousands of hectares burned a year ago, burning 50,000 acres [50,000 ha], of which 24,000 hectares were not to be rebuilt. It was a terrible environmental disaster for all of Polisi and for all of the Ukrainian forests. It's been a year. And I'd like to say that in a year, we're done legislatively, administratively and organizationally. Legislatively, my fellow officers, you and I have passed and raised the law, and we have increased the responsibility for the burning of the drylands and forests. You and I have adopted the Forest Inventory Act, which has not been implemented since 2001, and it has already been approved by Kabmin. And for five years we will have the understanding that we now have forest resources and where we can move in the development plan of forest management. We passed the Fire Safety Act in the forest. I would like to say organizationally about the Zitomir region that I'm responsible for today as a national deputy. Nearly 800 fire extinguishers were built, where they were only 30 a year ago, and why the forest burned because the fire trucks were empty. Today, we have 800 rounds in the Gitomir region and all 800 of them have fire extinguishers. Today, the averages are being restored. Today, 100 million machines have been purchased to be responsive quickly and professionally, while a special warehouse has been protected for fire dangers in the forest. An administrative reform of the forest economy is under way today. And I want to say that, for the first time in 15 years, Mr. Kuzowicz, the head of the State Department, and Mr. Bologov's acting head, this is the first time that people have really been forested, and they really have a bearing on the field, and they've gone through all the branches of the field. I can tell you that today the forest management is being restored, and it is the legislative, administrative and organizational security that is giving us the momentum that there is a perspective in the forest sector. So the leaders who are today in the Gitomir region, like Victor Sachniak, who is on my example, and I'm talking about 800 waters, and the restoration of the mill, and the purchase of new modern technology, and not how it was for years, that it was all ripped apart and pulled out of the forest farms. But the "forest mafia" doesn't give up, it doesn't lower its head, and it's trying to restore its position in the forest farm. In particular, the former head of the Kurinsky Zitomir Authority today, through the Supreme Court, is attempting to resume despite the fact that he wrote his own application. These are the people who looted the forest farm, and we have no right to let them go back to the forest farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u9	Thank you. Oksana Saucuk, non-factional. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u10	Oxana Savchuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ivano-Frankishte. For whatever it is, the sad stories that have happened since Operation Vistula, when you're coming to Ukrainian lands, and there's another flag over them, when there's a sign hanging around the Ukrainian church in Ukrainian, Polish and other languages -- not in Ukrainian, when Ukrainian cemeteries are going to wipe out their memory, and only some descendants are coming to remember that this is where the Ukrainian land was, are examples of a story that we don't have to repeat in the future, because no Ukrainian land can go away from the enemy, it has to stay with us. I want to talk about territorial defense today. I don't understand why our Ukrainian Parliament under the blue and yellow flag in this session hall isn't looking at the key -- how the nation will defend itself. Because I am convinced that not only the Armed Forces are fighting today must be fought by the nation. I mean, she has to be getting ready to take any time off. There's a bill registered in December that we might be able to consider, maybe there's an alternative on the committee. But we won't say a word. Why? Do we not have a vision of how Ukrainians should be prepared, because we have an enemy, an enemy clear and visible, Russia, standing on the eastern borders. The war is strategic, Russia and Putin do not see our country as a nation of their own. To them, we are those who do not have the right to their independence. So I'm convinced that we should actually use this model, such as the Israeli model, the Swiss model, when the nation is preparing to give away at some point. I would very much like us to look at the key issues of how Ukrainians are preparing to protect their own home, protect their children's future, protect their borders. I can't understand why we can't teach territorial defense in places, not leave it on our shoulders or local councils, because some of the city heads can do it, and some of them don't do it properly. It's got to be state policy. I would like us in this Parliament to make important state-making decisions that are relevant today. And what remains relevant is that Russia is our key enemy, which remains unstoppable. Ukraine's task is to preserve itself, to preserve its borders and finally to start considering strategic laws, such as the territorial defence law in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u11	Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u12	Good morning, dear fellows! Well, I usually talk about problems and challenges in Ukrainian energy from this rostrum. Today, however, we would like to talk about prospects and new opportunities for growth. And what's interesting is that the perspectives that don't require a green tariff, or 10 copies of electricity, or any other form of government support. It is the legislative definition of biomethane and the creation of a biomethane registry in Ukraine. What Is Biomethane? Biomethane is a biogas to which 95 percent of methane is added. Biogas, in turn, is a gas formed after the microbiological decomposition of biomass and bio-waste, as well as liquid and solid organic waste. Biomethane production in Europe has already reached 5 billion cubic metres a year. So why should Ukraine be involved in the production of this resource? There are several reasons for this. First reason. Biomethane is a complete analogue of natural gas and can be used as a source of heat, electricity, and fuel for transportation and the chemical industry. Another reason. Ukraine has the largest agricultural area in Europe, that is, it has an agarous raw material for biomass, which is essential to biogas, which in turn is the basis for biomethane. The third reason. In Europe there is a demand for biomethane as a renewable gas. Perhaps you have heard of the so - called Green Deal, which obliges Europe’s countries to reduce atmospheric pollution and also to decarbonize production. It's the production of biomethane and it's aimed at replacing the natural gas. And the fourth reason. We have somehow completed Ukraine's gas transport system, which is relevant after especially 2024, without any cost of modernizing it. We expect that in the first place all the power to produce biomethane will be directed towards export, because there are already buyers in Europe who are willing to pay a high price for it. To do that, we need to create a biomethane register that will support the origin of this resource and will help to provide European Union buyers with the aids provided by the Green Agreement. The export direction for Ukraine is attractive because, in addition to creating additional jobs and paying taxes to different levels of budgets, we reduce the negative trade balance of Ukraine. Given this, we have drafted a bill that regulates the definition of biomethane and regulates the creation of a biomethane registry in Ukrainian legislation. We think that's quite enough to start producing this resource in Ukraine and start exporting it abroad. I urge all colleagues to join in signing this bill. It will be available in the electronic document system of the Supreme Council. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u13	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u14	People's MP Skork, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Honorable Presidium, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, just from this rostrum, my colleagues mentioned several memorable dates in world and Ukrainian history, memorable and sad days. I would like to talk about another date in our nation’s recent history. We're with you before Easter, and this year Easter is May 2. May 2nd was always associated with our citizens with rest, with the second day of the solidarity of the workers, with the beginning of the real warm spring. Since 2014, this date has been sad in the history of my hometown of Odessa and all of Ukraine. In 2014, only according to official records, 48 people were innocently killed, and this crime has not yet been investigated. If we are living with you, fellow Europeans, in the European state, the highest value in the European state is human life. Last year from this rostrum, I asked the majority faction to support the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate these events. Now it's being initiated, most of it, by a lot of fairies, I think, by a fair-time, totally temporary commission of inquiry that no one needs, which is intended, including the persecution of opposition representatives, rather than really investigating the terrible crime that has taken place in the territories of our independent state of Ukraine. I find it repugnant to hear that from TV screens some politicians say that on May 2, 2014, they seemed to have protected someone from something. If so, if they have protected them, they are heroes and their names must be known by the whole country, and we should be proud of them. And if that is not the case, it is a mass crime, and these criminals must be known by the whole country, and they must be punished. Our political power requires, Dmitri Alexanderovich, including you to place in the Hall a decree that we have made a long time ago, our faction, for the purpose of condemning these events. This is a similar decision that was recently voted on the events in Maidan. These are exactly the same things: both there and there, people died, our citizens. And we have to investigate these events. Dear colleagues, on the eve of these events, I ask you to honor the victims of the events on May 2, 2014 in Odessa for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u15	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv, Voice faction. We recently passed a law in this Parliament that changes the rules of judging scientific degrees. These rules have changed since September 1, 2021. But what do we have today, and is there a sufficient change in these rules? It seems that for years a working, corrupt scientific machine has been in agony. What's happening to science lately is a shame. The first episode with a journalist, writer Olesei Jaremczuk, the dissertation on the subject of Joseph Roth was prevented from defending the dissertation of a candidate for science. The reason for the inadmissibility is simple: she went against the decaying system, refused to pay bribes for admission and receipt, refused to put $100 bills between the pages of her dissertation, made a record of phone calls and wrote about it on "Ukraine's Truth." What is the response of MON? There's no response. The second episode. Our colleague, Elijah Kiwa, accompanied by either protection or auntie, without the permission of real journalists, defended the dissertation of a candidate for science. May I say that he is not worthy of this degree? This is to be done by the Aesthetic College of the Ministry of Education and Science. This decision caused a violent reaction in the scientific community, throughout the Ukrainian community. Scientists are concerned about this level of Ukrainian science. Teacher of the Ukrainian Catholic University, Alexander Jabchanka, publicly burned a student of medical science to protest. It's unheard of and very painful. He said, "I'm still ashamed to be called a science candidate. This title is finally discredited. Please consider this an official statement requiring that I be deprived of the scientific degree of a candidate for medical science. It's a shame for our whole country." Other candidates and doctors of science who say that science is now buried or a scientist is ashamed. In addition, journalists of Bihus.Info conducted their own investigation and found a forged signature on one of the dissertation manuals, a participation in scientific conferences in which they did not actually participate, an English-language article translated by Google Translate, a pseudoscientific text of the dissertation, one of the two approved responses to the dissertation was given by an official opponent and candidate. Considering the social resonance, as well as the information given in the investigation of Bihus.Info I've already made an appeal and I'm officially requesting the Ministry of Education and Science and the Athestic College to conduct an expert study on the candidates' dissertation of the Kivus for the detection of journalistic violations. Education and science cannot be compromised by conscience. Similar decisions are a shame to Ukrainian science. Do not be ashamed or disgraced by science, by the development of science.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u17	Gorvat Robert Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u18	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u19	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u20	Good afternoon, fellow officers, presiding officer! Sergey the Great, Lugansk. Dear colleagues, this rostrum is regularly reported by government officials regarding the defeat of the Coronavirus in Ukraine. Of course, it's an extraordinary problem, but we can see that the government can't cope with the dynamics of disease and vaccination. While Ukraine feeds behind the number of vaccinations, daily mortality statistics are terrifying, there are other problems that Kabul has also failed to cope with. Along with me, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Sukhov, together we represent the mining district: the cities of Lysichansk, Girski, Zolote, Luhanščina. The miners across Ukraine have been delayed from paying wages. Sailors can die not only from COVID but also from hunger, for how can they feed their own families if the funds did not come within six months? On the eve of Easter, you all know how much food you've gone through. How can miners build a holiday basket? How Can I Celebrate the Passover? These are rhetorical questions, for we understand that miners deserve to be paid at the proper time. Debts should be repaid before the festivals begin. This has to be Kabmin's main task. Should the Luhansk people's deputies, led by Shahov, from this bleaching chamber, with coal stones (we would bring it to you today and show you but not let us into this hall) demand payment to miners, as it was in December of last year? At last, the president and the government heard us and started paying us off, but debt exists for this time. The shahtar families have no treatment, no food, no money for children to buy boots to go out to the yard. But there is money, but it's not used for purpose. The Luhansk district administration spends hundreds of millions of dollars to repair roads. We realize that this is also extremely necessary, but we do well to set priorities. Who will be on these roads if the inhabitants of Luhansk are constantly affected by the actions of the government and the head of ODA Hayday? Of course, it is convenient for the district authorities to put money in the road because it is easier to steal money. But the money must go to the real needs of ordinary people, not to the filling of their own pockets. I think the President and the government will finally hear us and pay the miners money for Easter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u21	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u22	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Today, you know, I'm not talking about fighters, I'm thinking more about the rear rats who are literally sitting in the Ministry of Defense and chewing or biting not only the budget, but also the food that is meant to come to our fighters in its entirety. Let me explain where this started, and how this is happening today. I was amazed when round meat, rotten foods, vegetables, food were brought to one of the military and thought that, in fact, it might be a mistake. You know, we're going to NATO standards, we have a catalogue, guys can order the products they want. But I couldn't imagine the scale that for the 21st year today this whole story would take, accept and have that character. And it turns out to be very simple. It turns out that in the 21st year, somehow, the following story came out of support for the deputy of profile Igor Halimon. The tender was so prescribed that, in fact, only one company has become a monopoly today, covering the food supply of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by 90 percent, about 6 billion dollars that they actually spend in a year, implementing such food. This means that they: (a) do not execute a decision, four decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee, are two decisions of the court that are not being executed either. And on the question of why they don't work, they spread their hands, and they say we've forgotten. I'm really grateful to the professional committee on security, defense and intelligence for considering this issue, and it's they who called on the Minister of Defense of Andria Taran to pay attention to Mr. Halimon's professional ability to serve as deputy secretary of defense, because such things that are going on today are unacceptable. But what's more, two weeks after the meeting of the Hallimon committee, he did this: he just made additional deals to avoid breaking up with a monopoly called the Army Volunteer (I guess, the statutory capital of this company or the 35,000 dollars office, today he's doing a traffic of about 6 billion), so he and the Ministry of Defense have made additional deals, according to which it's written directly black in white: you can't check the place of the products, leave them in pieces, and then go to the Defense Minister, the Ministry of Defense, and check these foods. And others, other points that actually complement and reinforce the company of the Army Volunteer Monopolis and prevent the company from returning. Moreover, money will be paid, paid, and evidently not broken. During these four months, the Ministry of Defense received more than 70 requests for food comments. Half the businesses that took part in tenders last year or the past year are now either subcontractors or thrown off board. But I want to remind Mr. Halimon. You know, you'll have the following questions: construction barracks, armor and equipment. I ask you to address this statement, the attention of the NABU, the DBR and the Commander-in-Chief to take this as an official address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Please, let's move on, let's get back to our work. Scram. Don't insist. Pavlenko 2908. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Pauline. Skork. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Lukashev. None. Kirilenko. Don't insist. Vlasenka, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u24	2930.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u25	Please turn on the Vlasenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to point out first that the "Fatherland" faction has the next position that we have to hold a referendum and ask people first. Furthermore, if Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian people own agricultural land in accordance with articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution, agree to open the market, then the market must be created in such a way that Ukrainian farmers are protected first and have the opportunity to rent land. That is why the cadastre should primarily reflect the condition of the land’s rent, not the landowners. And landowners should be able to sell their land rations to the state at a market price. That's the position of Fatherland. And number 2930, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u27	I'm betting on a vote of 2930, Vlasenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:42:35]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 2931, Pavlovenko. Doesn't he insist again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, an extremely important amendment, please put it to the vote. We continue to insist that this law, the bill, must be brought into conformity with the Constitution, with legislation, so that this law does not allow it to manipulate, abuse and carry out raids, but actually deprive Ukrainian peasants of the ability to work and own their land. So we propose and ask, after the discussion, to send this bill for further work and start preparing for the U.S. referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u29	I'm betting on a vote of 2931 Pauline. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:43:51]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Pauline, 2950.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the bill is also intended to bring this bill into conformity with legislation. First of all, we stress that, in our view, it is premature this year to start land reform, to start selling agricultural land, we believe that we need to move to at least a year before the state prepares. Because when Ukrainian citizens are in poverty, when there are real failures in economics, in social policy, when the unemployment rate is rising in the country, and the job market situation is not the worst in all years of independence, when gas tariffs are rising, electricity is already rising, starting on May 1st, another increase in these conditions, no doubt starting to sell land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u31	I'm betting on a vote of 2950. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:45:37]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2939. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Head. The amendment refers to greater transparency in the registration of land and land relations. We propose not to cancel the obligation of an electronic form of decision to enter the State Land cadastre, the information on the borders of the state border of Ukraine, the boundaries of the administrative and territorial units, the regulatory and monetary valuation of land within the administrative and territorial units, the economic assessment of land, the restrictions on land use. We suggest that this be preserved, this is greater transparency and greater accessibility to this information. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u33	I'm betting on a vote of 2939, Kirilenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:50]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2956. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, article 12, paragraph 3, in which I propose to amend, shows that there is no vision of reform, that there is no vision of where we are going. Instead, we are offered some pilot projects that will result in the adoption of absolutely unknown legislation. So, on the one hand, state control over land use, including agriculture, on the other hand, is completely destroyed; on the other hand, there is total chaos in the multiplication of state authorities and local self-government; on the other hand, we are offered some experiments that will then lead to legislation that are completely unknowable, which will reflect, which is unknown, how these laws will regulate, and so on. Therefore, this is an indication on the record that there is no reform plan. Instead, we just have to ask people in a referendum whether they want to sell agricultural land at all. And number 2956, please. Next line is 58.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u35	I'm betting on a vote of 2956 people's deputies Vlasenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:48:34]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next item is 2958 Vlasenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, this is my change in the text of the same paragraph. I would like to point out once again that unfortunately, the way in which the law has been drawn up shows that there is no vision, no vision of how real, not this plundering land reform, and what needs to be done at all. Once again, this law, on the one hand, weakens the State's control over land use, on the other hand, completely distorts powers, changes powers, makes chaos the authority of state authorities and local self-government authorities. Instead, we're being offered to replace some experiments that will be carried out in the unknown where, we don't know, in what areas we don't know, and as a result of these experiments, we're going to be asked what drafts we don't know. And then once again, I'm just going to have to ask the Ukrainian citizens in the referendum, the Ukrainian people as the owner of the agricultural land, in accordance with article 13, 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u37	I'm betting on a vote of 2958 national MP Vlasenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:14]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 2960, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this is the case with the second part of the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u39	I'm sorry, it's taken into account. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u40	Yes, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u41	Yes, I'm sorry. 2961, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Head, I ask you to give the floor to the distinguished National MP, German Deputy Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u43	Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u44	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, which tells us where we asked questions about the separation of municipal and state property. Please tell us where the Constitution provides for government property as an object of order and so on. The Constitution provides that the authorities will carry out their duties to implement the landowner of the Ukrainian people. That's it. So you don't have to do this substitution that's proposed in the bill. So what I'm asking very much is that there's no subversion of understanding in general and of the legal definition of what state control is and what state ownership and municipal property is. So we ask that we leave the Earth Code unchanged.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u45	2961, Vasil Ivanovich German version. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:52:14]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 2962. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u46	Please give the floor to Reverend Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u47	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Head. The offer was well received by a colleague, Yuri Pavlenko. Expressing respect for the national deputies of Ukraine for the third vocation, which, without any exaggeration, upheld with blood the right of people to realize their land ownership, but (pay attention!) At a fair price. The price today is not fair. Today we're going to force people to sell land for 27,000 dollars at its real price of 150,000 dollars is a human robbery. That's why we're proposing right now, we're ready to lift all our amendments, vote on this bill for re-reading. It was professional and responsible to wait for the referendum and return to the consideration of this bill. Thank you for your attention. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u49	Thanks for the offer. I'll bet the vote on 2962. The committee, as always, is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:55]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 2966, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you today that Today’s Passion Friday is Judah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wednesday, I apologize. It's a hell of a Wednesday. Just give me a minute, I'm sorry. Wait! It's a hell of a Wednesday. This is what Judah sold for 30 silver coins today, honor, conscience, will, and he sold the Holy One. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, don't take the path of Judah, don't sell what belongs to the holy people, the Ukrainian nation. Please listen to history and nature. Thank you. And we'll support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u51	I'm betting on the vote of 2966, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:31]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 2967. Suffritch? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u52	I don't understand why the violence was in this room. An honest person made a mistake after 200 amendments. And really today it will be very sad that we are pushing this law into force on the Day of Passion. Today, whether you like it or not, it is Judah who sold Christ today, and you are selling the Ukrainians. And in that, the honorable Vasil Ivanovich is right. It would be desirable for you today to repent of what you have done with the Ukrainian people, not to force the Law on the earth. So after the next session, go to church and repent. Pray for what you do with Ukraine. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u53	I'm betting on the Suffritch vote number 2967. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:12]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 2968 Koltunović. Alexander Sergiyovich, there is still Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of course, we will not discuss this. Now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u55	Dmitri Alexanderovich, step away, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I understand that you have the initiative to discuss from a scientific point of view theoretic-methodologically applied concept of the bill. However, I would like to say that we are ready for this discussion. What's more, we don't accept the kind of lovemaking that was proposed from the 2178-10 bill. Moreover, we believe that the bill should have another concept, the bill should be built on other economic theories that should take account of the national economic interests, the interests of Ukrainian citizens. So I ask that the amendment, which is partially counted, be put to the vote in order for it to be counted in full. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u57	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I see it's important. The committee's listed in part. The author insists on taking full account, yes. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:51]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The editing's a little off. Let's move on. Pauline, 2985.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This amendment refers to article 13, part 3, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. I would also like to add to the profound arguments that my colleague, Alexander Koltunović, has made regarding the inability to adopt this bill as a non-legislative one, contradicts the Constitution, in fact, contradicts even common sense. And I think that these arguments, as my colleagues put it, would encourage the Supreme Council of Ukraine to send this bill for further work. I ask you to put your bill to the vote. She's like the others, at least to try to restore the legitimacy of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u59	I'm betting on a vote of 2985 Pauline. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:32]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 2990, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, have repeatedly argued in this room during the consideration of the bill, under which conditions a so - called land reform may be carried out. Here's a summary of last year. What do we see? We see a crisis in the economy, a deep down in industry, in agriculture, an outflow of investment, in a country of high unemployment, a cut in employment, from a country driven by professionals, millions of Ukrainian gastropods looking for any job abroad, rising tariffs and prices. At the same time, serious budgetary problems and an increase in government debt, which has already exceeded 60 percent of GDP. At the same time, tiny pensions, copious allowances that are far from real living. People are poor, and under these conditions we offer them to sell the land. Who's gonna buy it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u61	2990, Pawel. The committee also does not support this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:11]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 2973, Germany. Edit included partially.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, we ask for confirmation in full respect of our amendment. It's about the rights of things, about the registration of the rights of things. Today, it is problematic at all whether the land is a property right as a sale item. Could the earth be a thing at all? That's the first one. And the second. I'd like those control functions not to narrow down to the village council. The question is about the natural source of the existence of the Ukrainian nation. And that's why we think that this full-scale amendment should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u63	I'm betting on the vote number 2973 of the German National MP. It's part of the committee. I'm voting on the author's proposal for full consideration. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:41]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. 2974, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u64	I ask you to give the floor to Reverend Nestor Ivanovich Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u65	Dear Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I hope that we will respect the people's deputies of the previous vocations that settled this issue under the relevant norms of the Earth Code. We believe that the amendment should be taken fully into account. This issue is settled in the Act on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. So our colleagues in the drafting of the relevant legislation have completely settled this issue. Now we have to get out of another: Will our citizens be able to buy land, or will the price of landowners whose land value will be offered for sale satisfy us? Without ensuring the real value of the earth, we now consider it a crime to motivate people to sell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u67	I'm betting on the vote of 2974. It's taken into account by the committee in part. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:27]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Rather, it remains partially accounted for. Amendment 2957. It's a binoculars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to one position on the bill concerning authorized certified landowners. This is the projected pilot project for 2021-2022. So landowner engineers will be able to register land, among other things, and they will not be civil servants or officials of local self-government. This is another corruption scheme of the Dergeokadastre. It is clear that during the pilot, the license to register land in the LLC is granted to them, and they will be certified by the State Department. So the key problem here is that there will be no responsibility. And in the context of a weak legal system, a high level of corruption, I think that the right strategy is to pass it on to local self-government, because that completely justified itself in the area of real estate and business registration. Please support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u69	I'm betting on a vote of 2957, Bilozer. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:06]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2992, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u70	Thank you. Mr. Head, speaking back to our discussion, I would like to draw attention to what is the price of the bill that we are talking about today, and what we are talking about, lovemaking. Why don't we accept his concept? Because the world is moving in a completely different principled economic theory, in strengthening government regulation, government administration, back to the new old or old new Kanes, to strengthening institutionalism, that's going on with our previous amendment, but not liberalism. It's a flawed economic theory and an economic course in today's conditions, in a policy of protectionism and other things. But what is the price of this question? The price of this question is 42.7 million hectares or 31 million hectares of private property, 10.6, estimated by scientists, state-owned property or now 7.6 acres, almost 8 million hectares. That's what we're talking about: 8 percent of the world's reserves. Here's what the opposition platform stands for, and it doesn't take your economic course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u71	I'm betting on the vote of 2992 Koltunović. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:38]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2993, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Golovo, my fellow Members, an application was made in conjunction with Mikola Skorak, and it relates to article 13, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Goods Rights and Real Estate and Their Burdens. Why is this correction important? We've already spoken on a number of occasions in this room that unfortunately, by making most of the decisions, statements, promises, fine arguments, then as a result of the implementation of the laws that are being approved here, everything happens backwards. And even if we read the so-called government report, a program that they haven't been able to bring into this room and validate it, we see that today's government officials are failing, their inability to work effectively are presenting them as achievements. They're talking about what. I will continue to discuss in more detail the so-called government report on the following amendment and why the government is to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u73	2993, Pavlovenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:10:09]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Yvchenko 2999.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u74	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, any reform must meet its strategy. The strategy for today’s land reform day should be as follows. First. In fact, leave the manufacturer small, medium, and give him the opportunity to be competitive when he buys his land. It's important to leave those who do organic production because they've already certified their lands, and many of them have been doing organic farming for decades. And their land today is worth, colleagues, 10,000 euros. In the Poltava area of agroecology, which processes more than 6,000 hectares of organic farming since the 1990s, today the Swiss want to buy this land for 10,000 hectares. And they are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u75	2999, Yvchenko. Please identify and vote. This amendment is not supported by the committee. [[11:11:59]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 3,000, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u76	Thank you. So here, colleagues, those who have actually invested in their land today have to have fuses in this law and preserve the potential and strategic potential for Ukraine to develop organic production. Colleagues, in terms of decentralization, so we have to leave the norm proposed by Fatherland to get local government authorities to review contracts at low interest rates, that's important. We're going to be thanked by both the mayors and the people of those communities who can fill the budgets and be able to use the funds, actually, to upgrade the infrastructure. Colleagues, we are thanked by the animals if we leave the fuses and those who invest in long - term plantings. Imagine how they will now compete with these "money bags" that will come on their land. The strategy should be to save the producer, allow the small and medium-sized producer to be competitive
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u77	I'll bet you 3,000. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:38]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3003, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Head. What are they offering us? We're being asked to introduce liability insurance for land-use documentation developers and liability insurance for topographical and cartographic work providers. So, on the one hand, they're completely, practically completely taking down control of these very important activities, and on the other hand, they're forcing people to use these services to pay extra for it. Because we actually understand clearly that the insurance, while the state is out of control, they say we're not going to control anything, you better insure it. But insurance is going to make it easier for those who are going to eat this service, and that's going to be landowners, and, God forbid, if they're Ukrainian farmers, it's going to be just a road trip for them, just a road trip away from the control of this area. Although I say again, the first thing we had to do was hold a referendum and ask the Ukrainian people if they're ready for all the mess they're offering us.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u79	I'm betting on a vote of 3003, Vlasenko. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:10]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3004, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u80	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u81	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u82	Thank you. Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, we appeal to you once again and we reaffirm our readiness to renounce all our amendments if we vote for this law to be read again. We need to understand that Ukraine today is not ready to enter the real market in the earth for one reason: there is no real price on earth. Today, at pension level, Ukraine averages 6 times that of all of our southern neighbours, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland. First, we need to create a paying Ukrainian and then offer to sell the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u83	I'm betting on a vote of 3004 people's deputies, Shufric. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:46]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 3005. Suffritch? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u84	Thank you. Continued with his previous speech. We urge Vasil Ivanovich Nietzchenk and I to leave the law in place, and we believe that the issue is settled. But once again, we call your attention to the following. Today we have a price for gas like that in Europe, even higher. After the final recalculations, $400 per thousand cubes. At the same time, the value of the land, in our neighbors, I would like to emphasize that it is 8-10 times higher than it is suggested to sell to Ukrainians. How can that be? European energy prices, pensions are 6 times lower, wages are 6 times lower, and land is 8 times cheaper, that is not the case. Please stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u85	3005. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:15]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3012. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This amendment, in association with Natalia Royal, refers to the concept of connected persons. In our view, the application of the concept of "related persons" is inappropriate, because it is not indicated which body and which principle will determine who are connected persons. In our view, this is an important amendment. And although much of our rights are out of the question, I would like to thank both the reporter and the committee that some of our rights are taken into account. And that's definitely what this bill does, at least to some extent, belong to the Constitution of Ukraine. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u87	Thank you for supporting the bill. Yuri Alexiyovich, I'm voting 3012. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:33]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Coltunovich, 3013.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko, let me continue his point of view and the view that he is not a proponent of this draft law and of the loving land reform proposed in the basic bill 2178. That's the first one. And second, Yuri Alexiyovich tried or begged you to support his amendment, not the law as a whole. This is an important distinction in order not to mislead our voters. This is the second moment. And the third. Look, one more moment, I wanted to point out that we're talking about registers there, but I wanted to point out that the area of decomposed land today is 27.7 million hectares -- 65 percent of the total area of the country. On average, the land area is about 4 hectares [4 ha] across the country. For example, in the Lugansk region is 6.7 hectares, and in Ivano-Frankivsky the lowest is 1.1. If the brothers used there have the following structure: 62 percent are leased, 20.6 are used or not used, and 17.4 are associated with private farming.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u89	I'll bet the vote on 3013. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:07]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 3021, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear reporter, dear colleagues, I really don't support this bill. I think this bill should be sent for further work. Indeed, we try to bring our rights into line with the Constitution and the legislation in any way. I think that this discussion is important, which is happening in the hall. Because I'm going to remind my colleagues what was the first proposal for a land reform that came out of a government that was formed by you, and, in particular, by Milovanov, the initiator of this reform. 207,000 hectares of concentration in one hand -- this proposed land reform, the sale of land to foreigners -- was proposed. But thanks only to the consistent position of our opposition platform for life faction, we have managed to defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens in some way. Thus, the number of 207,000 hectares was reduced to 100 acres [100 ha]. We think it's a small one, but it's a victory of opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u91	I'll bet you 3021. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:41]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 3022, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u92	Thank you, Mr. Head. We're being asked to introduce the next honorary title of "deserved landowner of Ukraine." I'd like to add: a well-deserved visitor to the children's garden of Ukraine, I don't know, a well-deserved visitor to something else. In fact, with Soviet rudiments, honorary titles have to be completed, all of them have to be abolished. Colleagues, can you imagine this kind of association, I don't know, the National Artist of the United States, Jennifer Lopez? Well, it looks archaic, it's full of ripples. I understand the Presidential faction's desire to keep people on their jackets and give them all as gifts on behalf of the President and so forth. But in fact, from the point of view of government, this has nothing to do with national awards anymore, I mean honorary titles. This must be denied, apparently, by all honors. I'm telling you, he's a former Ukrainian well-deserved lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u93	I'm betting on the vote of 3022 national MP Vlasenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:20]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line 3023, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u94	May I give the floor to the distinguished national deputy Shufrich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u95	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u96	Thank you, Your Honor. "Honorable Landowner." So name things by your names - "honorful thief of the earth", "snatcher of the earth". So let's set up these real names. Because this code protects, not the rights of landowners, but the rights of those who will be extradited to real landowners whom you protected 20 years ago, and I was involved in the fight that took place in this room to protect the rights of our citizens to private property on land and to the right to a fair price on land. Sadly, this has failed, and today you will impel people to sell their land for nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u97	I'll put it to a vote of 3023. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:51]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 3024. Suffritch? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u98	Thank you, Mr. Head. We have consulted and ask for the word of Vasil Ivanovich Niemchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u99	Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the landowner who wants to give the medal to the worthy is a specialist, not an expert. To the authors I want you to read the etymology of that word, and you'll realize that no merit is given to specialists. They give him class, they give him discharges, so you know what they're paying for. And you're here as an expert, confused that question. I'd like to think that the whole foundation of this bill, which is based on confusion. I don't want to remind you who wrote the confusion. Read and do not make fun of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u101	I'm betting on a vote of 3024 Germans. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:21]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 3025, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Head. This law cannot be voted on as a whole, since it is passed or passed without questioning Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian people, who own the Ukrainian agricultural land. This law completely balances government in the field of land relations and completely balances legislation in the field of land relations. Instead, mechanisms are put in place that do not really protect landowners and landowners but protect the unknown. In particular, I suggest that when the lease agreement is certified, it is necessary to check whether the renter has been notified during such an alienation. But no one really cares: No one is interested in renters’ rights, no one is interested in landowners’ rights. This law must be enforced as soon as possible in order to protect those who raid the land of Ukrainian farmers. In fact, we need to spend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u103	I'm betting on the vote to amend 3025 of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:55]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 3026. Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u104	I'm asking you to give the floor to the People's Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u105	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We are absolutely convinced that the relevant issues are settled in the current rules of the Ukrainian Notariat Act. At least don't touch the notaries anymore. Please leave the laws valid, show respect for your colleagues who have adopted this law, and stress once again the criminal intent to motivate people to sell land in conditions where the real value of the land will not be reflected in its sale. People will have to sell land because of their poverty, and someone will profit from it and speculate. And then people with pitchforks will go to demand the land back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u107	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. I'll bet you a vote on your 3026 amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:27]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 3027. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u108	Thank you. Excuse me, Vasil Ivanovich begs and insists on his word. Please tell him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u109	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u110	Thank you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich. Thank you. I want my colleagues to know that what I'm proposing is that I want us to listen to our amendment, because alienation and the agreement are two big differences. Deprivation is a one-person action. If we're talking about a deal, we're talking about two sides. You're the one who's sending it to the notary. And what you're writing in the law or in the necessity bill, if there's a question that the owner doesn't do alienation, you have to check it out. And if the owner does not have to check the notary? Let us do without this abracadabra in the legislative acts. It's not even funny anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u111	I'm betting on a vote of 3027, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:01]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 3028, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u112	Thank you, Mr. Head. Let's change Article 55 of the Notariat Act or not, I don't think that'll save the day. However, the conceptual aspect that we discussed, see, was research: $600 to $800 per hectare -- the value of the land in the field. We understand that there are objective reasons why it is lower than, for example, in Poltava, Cherkaske, Vinnitsky, or southern regions. All over the country, a thousand or two. And they brought in colleagues, and I've done 20s and 40s and even 80,000s over and over again. A comparative analysis showed both income levels and gross domestic product per person and so on that price. It should be much higher. If you are already opening and removing the appropriate fuses, settle this issue, and at least ensure that the basic state price regulation, including the land, as well as the other most strategic things that are currently in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I bet on the vote of Amendment 3028. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:32]] For-53 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u114	3034, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Now on with the concept theme. Since the main argument for the implementation of land reform is the International Monetary Fund requirement, I would like to point out that in the 21st year State Budget project, the external borrowing is much smaller than domestic borrowing. For example, if 701.8 billion dollars is a whole loan to the budget, the inside is 497, while the outside is 204. So 2.5 times the amount of external borrowing is smaller than the amount of domestic borrowing. Of course, there is a scheme that some people will still be criminally responsible for transactions involving domestic government loans. However, dependence on external loans in terms of even the state budget of Ukraine is not critical. Hence, from this point of view, national economic interests do not need to be put on the line, especially in land policy. We've calculated that 204 billion dollars of borrowing is external this year. Well, it's funny money compared to what you're selling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u116	I'm betting on the vote of 3034 Koltunović. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:13]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3035, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Head. And the second fundamental point proposed by the authors of land reform is that the introduction of the market circulation of agricultural land will contribute to the involvement of foreign direct investment in the national economy. You and I have seen that since the vote of the first basic law, the outflow of foreign direct investment from the national economy has been a negative $868 million for the first time in decades. At a time when your predecessors were sentenced to 2.5 billion a year plus U.S. dollars. So from this point of view, investment attractiveness is defined by completely different instruments, not so much by your proposed land aspects. This time. And the second moment is important. You too need to remember about the investment attractiveness of land, or more specifically the agricultural sector. These are capital investments, these are capital investments in modernization, in the water-based meliorate sphere, in the development of animal production, in the processing industry, and in overcoming the raw materials of the national economy. It's not all there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u118	I'm betting on the vote of 3035 Koltunović. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:45]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Coltunovich, 3054.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u119	Thank you. Mr. Head, one of those amendments, of the last amendments that I'm going to demand to put to the vote, but under the transcript, I want to state that I have passed the same letter that I'm going to insist on, on some amendments that will apply to confirmation. And that means that we're going to go a little bit further into this bill. First. One second. When we spoke to you and my colleague also criticized, the basic bill 2178-10, I would like to say that the procedure of such a review made it impossible for the land anarchy that could have happened a year ago. Why? Because rightly said, there was a concentration of 707,000 acres [207,000 ha] in individual regions, especially in the Odessa region. The situation was similar in the Dnipropetrov region -- almost 200,000 hectares in one hand. Because of the pressure that our party has exerted, or primarily, we have achieved that there are 100 hectares in one hand for today. Similarly, legal aliens were removed and the land of state property was removed. That's what these moments are for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u120	I'm betting on the vote number 3054 Koltunović. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:43]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 3055, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u121	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. My 3055 amendment is aimed at protecting Ukrainian farms, small farms, family farms, which are to be the foundation of Ukraine's agricultural system. This land reform, which has nothing to do with the development of Ukrainian agriculture, is aimed at one thing: allowing huge corporations to build Ukrainian land and for Ukrainian farmers to become hired on their land. That's why we, as Fatherland, fight against this, because we think we have to give the land to Ukrainian farmers, so that there are not tens of thousands, but millions. Then Ukraine will be a strong economic state. So support my amendment and the sale of agricultural land only in the Ukrainian referendum initiated by Julia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u122	I'm betting on a vote of 3055 Krulka. The committee is not supported by an amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:15.]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next line, Kovalov, 3061.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor, for your word. I have two orders: 3061 and 3062. I want to point out that I want to tell my colleagues the positive points of this bill in 3061 and the negative points that I'm going to tell you in 3062. Regarding the positive aspects of this bill. We all see that land decentralization is actually going to happen, that is, we're going to transfer land to local self-government. This is an absolute plus, and I think all the factions support this position. The following is also the case with regard to the elimination of state-owned land-use expertise. What will that do? This will enable people to form their land areas more quickly, because at the moment, because of the groundwork that is in the central apparatus, people are 5, 7, or they can't get land for 10 years. So actually, their projects are already obsolete and they have to work on them, but they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u124	I'll bet you 3061. The committee is not supported by the amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:22]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 3062, Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u125	Thank you for your word. Now I want to tell my colleagues about the negative points that are in the bill, and I call on everyone, if this bill is voted on, but then put it down and correct it, I think there are some mistakes in this bill. First. It's the dominant right to sell agricultural land. As has already been pointed out in this room, and as I pointed out, this will actually lead to the purchase of agricultural land by large agrarian corporations, agricultural holdings, and will actually reduce the price of agricultural land sales to $800 to $1,000 per hectare. This is unacceptable. The next moment. The fact that we're actually getting rid of the State's land survey, because it's actually no longer going to perform the functions that are now given to Ukraine's current legislation. So I want a colleague to make up his mind and decide whether to vote or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u126	I'll bet the vote on 3062. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:00]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 3072. 3073. Kiwa or Shufrich, who's it going to be? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u127	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing the revisions, and, frankly, for these two bills, which today will actually provoke people to sell land from July 1st, believe me, will be responsible both to humans and to God. The fact that you are now provoking people to sell their land at a price of at least 8 times less than its real value is sure to come back. Instead of allowing this land to be passed on to children and grandchildren in today's landowners, creating real farmers, as is done in Europe, we will encourage the creation of agroholdings and will actually implement the Latin American land management system, and land treatment, unfortunately not European. Our way is Latino. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u128	I'm betting on a vote of 3073 Schuffritz. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:51]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Germany’s next edition, 3074.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u129	Dear Chairman, I ask you to pass on the word to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u130	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in 2001, we dreamed of farming Ukraine, Ukraine, where the landowner would be the master of his land. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian authorities have failed to create conditions for farming in our country at all times. But what you're doing is destroying today even the minimal prospect of farming in our country. People will have to sell the land at no cost, and because of the various forms of rent and the purchase of large agrohöldings, they will own the Ukrainian land. This is what we've been up against, and this is what you're up against today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u132	I'm betting on a vote of 3074 Schuffritz. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:27]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. What's the next issue, Schofrich or Germany? Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, 3075.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u133	This is our last joint amendment, please hand it over to Vasil Ivanovich Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u134	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, it was in "The End" that the drafters of the bill just showed up like a lamus paper. So where is the state in this bill? It was given the role of coordinator in ensuring that land use is controlled. You have simply assigned the role of coordinator to the State authorities, who are obliged by the Constitution to perform control functions. And coordination and control functions are two big differences. Under such circumstances, we can talk about what is essentially not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u136	I'm betting on a vote of 3075, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:08]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 3084, Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u137	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, let's remember who we're in this room for. I will remind you that we are here in this room thanks to the Ukrainian people, our voters, who gave us the right to draft laws for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. When you went to the elections, you promised people to hold a nationwide referendum and ask people what they thought about selling or not selling Ukrainian land. So the position of the Fatherland faction is the position of the Ukrainian people. First we're going to have a nationwide referendum, ask people, and if we're selling land, then only the State Land Agency of Ukraine, only the people who work and process this land, our agriculture. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u138	I'll bet the vote on 3084. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:48]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Alona Ivanovna’s Scrum, 3086
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u139	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is now, without exaggeration, one of the most fundamental rights both of my own, and in this law in general. And I must be shocked to say that if this amendment were supported, perhaps even the law could be voted on. What is this amendment about, colleagues? It says that the law should take effect the next day after the publication of the results of the U.S. referendum on the free market of agricultural land. I think that would be as good as possible. And those issues that divide society must be addressed in a nationwide referendum. And only after the results of such a referendum have been published, if, for example, the referendum is approved, will we be given entry into force of this law. A few of these, and if the hall supported one of them, you would show that you really think about people's opinions, you want to do what people, small and medium-sized farmers advise you to do, and you don't want to share society. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u140	I'm betting on a vote of 3086, Schrum. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:17]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Vlasenko, 3095.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u141	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, first of all, I'd like to inform you that the MPs of the Fatherland faction are going to be putting a string of amendments on record. This is the first time. Second of all, we're being asked to cancel the End Positions. To recognize that the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens to the Earth has become invalid. It's actually a quintession of this law -- to abolish protection, constitutional protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights to land. Although this law actually solves one single issue, it limits the cost of documentation that testifies to ownership of land. So the people who are now behind the rostrum, the people who are now lobbying this law, they, in addition to trying to rob Ukrainian land, they're creating another corrupt dining room, and they're going to be taking a totally incomprehensible, disproportionate payment for documents that show ownership to the ground. And in this quintession, once again, I emphasize, we are offered to acknowledge that it has become invalid, the Law on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens to the Earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u142	I'm betting on a vote of 3095, Vlasenko. Committee position? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u143	Dear colleague, this law is really being annulled by "transitional positions" because it provides for a marginal fee for property rights acts that have not been issued since 2013 but are being extracted. So it doesn't really make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u144	I'll bet you 3095. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:21]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 3096, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u145	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, after the U.S. referendum, any laws can be enacted. But until we do the one right thing, it's to appoint an all-U.S. referendum and ask people the opinion, until then all these laws are a parody of land reform. Since Parliament is in fact not even going to ask people what they think and give people the opportunity to vote in a referendum because of a question that is of key national importance to the development of the Ukrainian State. And, of course, as the "Fatherland" faction, we're going to be trying to hold a referendum, and so we're going to do everything we can to make sure that those laws that hurt the Ukrainian state aren't passed in the session room. I propose to support my amendment, and so do not vote in favour of this law, because it divides Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u146	I'm betting on a vote of 3096, Krulko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:51]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 3101, Yvchenko. I understand that we agreed that you don't take extremes, then three minutes at the end. Three minutes to go. Thank you, sit down. 3103, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u147	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this amendment indicates that after the adoption of the law, if any, all particularly valuable lands must be added to the cadastre. Regrettably, even today there is no such provision in the law. And I'm very sorry that my previous ruling has been rejected that the law can only take effect after the decision of the all-U.S. referendum, when people agree to the free market of so-called agricultural land. That would be absolutely right. You know, I've seen some referendum practices, including land markets. So, for example, in the last U.S. elections that we've all followed closely, there were 17 referendums at the same time as the President's election. Fellows, consider: 17 local referendums and not just local referendums. They were just referring to the most painful questions for all communities, the issues that divide. In many states there have been referendums on the approval of gambling. We didn't have that. In various states, referendums have been held, such as the taxation of veteran property, as well as referendums on the environmental protection of gray wolves. But our "cheese wolves" don't exactly need to be protected, they unfortunately don't listen to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u148	I'm betting on the 3103 People's Deputy Skrum vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:44]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 3105, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! Why does our leader, Julia Timoshenko, and our party, like some other opposition parties, insist on holding a referendum? Well, think about the work I'm proposing. With a view to protecting and preserving particularly valuable land, it is proposed that the government be entrusted with a 6-month deadline to ensure that the State Land Inventory provides information on land areas of particular value. One last attempt at common sense in the room. We understand that you have voices. Friends, how can we remain in this situation without State land? How can we be without State control? How can we leave the country without seed, without hybridization, without selection? Guys, in this chaos, we're losing food security, which is equal to national security. You know, you can do business while there's no hunger. God forbid, what other countries are experiencing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u150	I'm betting on a vote of 3,1055 people's deputies, Kirilenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:59:17]] For-74.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u151	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There's a break until 1:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. 3112, Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u153	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, I was invited on Saturday by our agricultures in the Prilytsky region, gathered a round table and asked me at the Supreme Council to ask you a question. Please tell me, at what cost will agrarians buy land? Where are your cheap loans you promised the agrarians? They say that today you want to take this land, sell it to Argoholdings, sell it to foreigners, and that our Ukrainian people, our agrarians, are hired on this earth. Where is the U.S. referendum that you promised to ask people first of all, the opinion of the agrarians? The Fatherland faction, as always, supports the small and medium-sized business of our agriculture, our Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u154	I'll put it to a vote of 3112. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:15]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Krulko, 3124.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u155	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We certainly are. This is my last amendment to this law. And of course, very often when you go to the session room, it's like a pea against a wall, because no one wants to think, and in which country we're going to live tomorrow, waiting for a Ukrainian village, Ukrainian farmers. We have to decide now, because that's what the team on top did. But it seems to me that every national MP who has been elected to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has been given a parliamentary mandate by the Ukrainian people must serve the people first, and there are other issues that are involved in carrying out a team. To our belief, Fatherland is the only way out of this situation is to postpone this law and appoint an all-Ukrainian referendum. Let the people determine what to do with the Ukrainian land. And only the will of the people will be the only right and only right answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u156	I'll put it to a vote of 3124. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:54]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. It's 3 minutes, Yvchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u157	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, you know, in my last speech, on my orders, I'll say the following. First. Any law that is passed on the ground, especially after the moratorium is lifted, has to meet the criteria for what safety nets for small farmers, which are safety nets for family farmers, which are safety nets for those who develop strategic directions for Ukrainian agrarian production, such as organics, which are safety nets for those who create jobs in fact, are our animals, and which are safety nets for those who make colossal investments and create long-term plantings, our gardens and vineyards. Regrettably, this law does not contain these safeguards. These people, who have such a business, are at risk of losing their own business because of what this law says about the money race. This law says that whoever has more money will actually buy Ukrainian land. Farmers will lose everything, especially small and small. Colleagues, any country that opened up the land market, answered one single question, and that's the main question: what financial instruments and what financial opportunities we give these people. When I'm asked by our colleagues from abroad and they're talking about how to make investments, I'm saying first, we have to protect the farmer, and secondly, we welcome investment in processing, we welcome investment in value added production, we welcome it. But by no means do we have to introduce speculative capital here, that capital that will use Ukrainian land, and we'll still be exporting raw materials. Colleagues, this is the main thing that farmers are afraid of today. We're launching into the Ukrainian market those who have nothing to do with agriculture at all, who have colossal assets in their declarations, and these people are going to be the first buyers of Ukrainian land, and this concerns the agricultural sector, believe me, most of them. And second, of course, colleagues, it's a question of decentralization. I wanted us to do the best we could to ensure that communities from this country get the most in order to develop the infrastructure, filling their budgets in the same way, and we colleagues didn't even give them the opportunity to change the percentage of the small rate that the predecessors made in a corrupt way. This is the problem with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u158	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, 3 minutes. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u159	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm not going to insist on my work, and I want to point out the following, that a similar bill, which we and many colleagues who are currently in the session room, have had in Parliament the last call. Sadly, though, political will was not enough, and after the first reading of the bill, it was long in the closet. We must make sure that there is historical justice. By 2002, local councils had managed the lands within the communities. These orders then moved across agricultural lands to district government administrations, non-agriculture administrations, to the district administrations, to Kabmin, and, since the 13th, to the State Department. And it's just that a massive debris of land started after 13 years in agricultural lands. There were different patterns. The land was set aside for farming. As a rule, farms were not created, but land banks were increased. Then the law, initiated by me and my colleagues, who were once again present in the session hall, about land auctions, was suppressed. Another scheme has begun to work. Land was distributed for the creation of a personal farm. Again, the landmass of the well - founded individuals was increasing. And over this period, during this period, the huge amount of land in state and municipal land was just being driven out of circulation, that's thousands of hectares. Real farmers did not get the land because the land is owned, not by a community or by local deputies, but by an official who works at a district center who is usually assigned from Kiev. Well, unless that's fair, when the haystacks, the public pastures, even the graveyards, imagine the local council can't take away, we have to go deal with the land manager. So once again, there must be historical justice. The land within the community must be managed by the community. We have 1,000 470 communities. Each of you should ask the head of the community or the deputy, and he will say that local councils and local deputies should manage the land. Another observation. There is not a word in this law about the sale of land. We have state and municipal lands, they're under a moratorium. Nobody's selling them or selling them, because, again, I repeat, they're under a moratorium. So if we really want to complete the decentralization reform, if we want our communities to be strong and powerful, we have to give them tools, we have to give them resources to fill their budgets. And the main resource of any community is land. So this bill needs to be voted on and to be truly historic justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, would anyone insist on a confirmation check? Yvchenka, I see, Timoshenko. Who else? Vlasenko. How many lines? A lot? How much, 10? A lot? You know, they just sent a letter. Do you insist on editing too? Okay. We've got a letter of correction. No, no, it's written, everything's in order. Starting with three of them, I understand that. And Vadim Evgenovich Yvchenko was still there. What's the clearance for confirmation? So there was a statement from Yvchenk, from "The Opposition Platform for Life," and now two other national deputies are also insisting on rights. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u161	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, please note, Amendment 1794, this is a mega-corruption law that tells us about the following. All those orders that have been issued over the past five years, and on one land, they could be given several times, and they didn't register anywhere. The local authorities are now obliged to take these orders to the FTC and approve them directly by 2023. To my great conviction, if we're talking about decentralization, we have to give the local self-government authorities the land and start over. Why should we, if you'll excuse me, reconcile what was once issued on a corrupt path in the State Department? We don't have to do this, so let's not support this and press red or yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u162	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, indeed, there were many comments on this point from both the Association of Cities and Communities. When we give them land orders, we make the initial orders of the geocadester mandatory for them, and this is provided for by this law. That's why I'm holding on. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, it's 1794. It was counted by the committee, but once Mr. Solsky pointed out it was logical. So I'm putting 1794 on confirmation. Please identify and vote. 1794. [[13:16:24]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next line number 3, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u165	Thank you. Mr. Head, I would like to draw attention to what my colleagues have already said, and I was even surprised when even the MPs from the political party "The Servant of the Nation" spoke of the prime-time right to purchase and sell agricultural land. It's really not even creeping, it's this accelerated expansion of agroholdings. Such steps will, unfortunately, strengthen them, not the average citizens of Ukraine. Other important points, too, have been said that this position could lead to a reduction in the price of an acre of land to $800,000, not the tens of thousands of dollars we've been talking about today. There are a number of other derivative points that today, that are about the issue of especially valuable lands that are in Ukraine, and all of these things, they're just saying that the draft of Law 2194 is not that it doesn't have to be supported in part or in part, but it has to be voted exclusively against, the red button. So in general, we say that let us not support him, not even work at all, but reject him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u166	Alexander Sergiyovich, I understand that this amendment is taken into account by the committee, but you ask it to be confirmed, right? Mikola Tarasovich, will you take a position?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u167	The position is simple: it's technical. Please support the Hall, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u169	Amendment number 3. She was supported by the committee, she was counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:18:43]] For 279 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u170	Four amendments, I understand. Nestor Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u171	Thank you. You know our position, we think it's not very timely for us to now provoke the sale by our landowners of Ukrainian land when its real value does not reflect its real value. So today we're actually provoking the sale of Ukrainian land, as experts say today, up to 28 to 29,000 dollars, the average price is going to be 26,000 dollars at the actual cost of 150,000 dollars. That's why we're fighting today for this bill not to be adopted in such an order or to be redrafted. And that is why we now insist that the series of amendments that have been taken into account by the Committee be confirmed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make it a responsibility not only for individuals, but also for all those who press the pros button. Please place the check on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u172	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. We can simply confirm by voting for the bill as a whole that we passed. But this is your right as a national deputy. So I'm putting Amendment 4, which is counted by the committee, so I'm asking the people's deputies to support and vote. [[13:20:36]] For 274
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u173	Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Next line number 5. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u174	Thank you, Mr. Head. We come out of the same principle. This bill cannot be accepted. In general, I hope that the sense of responsibility will return to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will carry the beginning of the sale, and I would say, the looting of the land from July 1st this year, as a minimum for one and a half years, to enable people to get the fair value of the land, not to deceive and steal it from them for nothing. Because it's not gonna be selling, it's stealing land from people who can't end it today, provoking them to sell the last thing they have, their land -- it's not human, it's not stately, excuse me, it's not Ukrainian. Therefore, we insist that the amendment be confirmed, hoping that after the vote on the confirmed ones, the amendments taken into account would not suffice to vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u175	I'll bet you vote number five. The committee was counted. I'm betting on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:22:16]] For 280 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 6th row, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u176	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. He had just opened up a freshening in memory of the political party's pre-election program "The Opposition Platform for Life", with which we were elected to the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call. I'm not going to quote you all the norms and positions, I'm going to point out that saving the land of Ukrainian peasants and opening the agricultural land market is the result of a nationwide referendum. We and these positions went to the elections in the summer of 19th, these are important norms, they talk about the people of the country, the right of the people to rule over the property of the Ukrainian people, the constitutional right granted to them by our Constitution of Ukraine. This time. The other one. Sociological research, which suggests that Ukrainian citizens are ready to come and not support the establishment of a land perimeter of an agricultural assignment, confirms and supports the position that we have expressed in this room today and in recent weeks. The referendum is then all the other derivatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u177	I'll bet you vote number six. It was confirmed by the committee. Please be supportive. I'm betting on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:23:48]] For 292 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 7th row, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Head. I can see how the majority faction has concentrated on organizing this vote. Do our colleagues understand what they will now cause people to do? People have land. It has no real value right now, and it has real value. Ukrainian value is Ukrainian land. And instead of creating conditions so that people can get a fair price on land, which is eight times more expensive than in Ukraine, on account of their real income, which is now 7 times lower than in Hungary. So we ask, and we insist, stop, create real fair conditions in the land market, and then together we launch it. Please place the amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u179	I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 7. The committee counted it. Therefore, I ask the Chamber to support and vote. [[13:25:24]] For 281 Decision taken. 8 you're going to make an amendment. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u180	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. We have here with Nestor Ivanovich a tandem as amended for confirmation, so we will put them on and continue to be confirmed. What else did I want to pay attention to? Disturbing is the standard that proposes to abolish the requirement for the purpose of using agricultural land, including the prohibition of the transfer of land to and to persons like them. This is a very important norm, because we have spoken to you repeatedly, and in due course not even the President of Ukraine, as if we were criticizing him for his inadequacy of politics in every area that is possible. But then he insisted, and the committee accepted these regulations so that foreign legal persons would not be able to acquire ownership of the land of agricultural assignment. With similar draft laws, we certainly don't go straight, but with derivative things, we do it and we do it. This time. And the second is about banks in Ukraine. 73 banks, 33 of them with foreign capital, will also be able to acquire these land through different and further bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u181	Thank you. I'm betting on vote 8 of the amendment, which is counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[13:26:56]] For 281 Decision taken. The 9th amendment will be applied. Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u182	Dear colleagues of the great majority, you have come to the Supreme Council with the main thesis of "national government" that before you make the decisions that you will ask about Ukraine and the Ukrainians. What did you forget or "kill" the Ukrainians and what they thought? 80 percent strongly opposed the introduction of the earth’s market now. People are wise, people realize that there is no real value now. They waited for them to be asked, and they were ignored. Is that how they treat those citizens who brought you into power two years ago? And they're already very sorry about that, because life has been after your "prosecutor," by the way, by the way, which you're supposed to pronounce, I understand, justified already. And unfortunately, people continue to pay for your incompetence and incompetence.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u183	I'll bet you vote number nine. It's counted by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:28:33]] For 288 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Amendment number 10. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u184	Dear Chairman, I have Ruslan Alexiyovich, and I have a question. What are the deputies of the People's Servants doing in the political party sector of "The Opposition Platform for Life"? Can we ask our colleagues not to go to the MPs? This time. I'll explain the position. First. One second. With regard to the land initiatives that we are taking today. First, especially valuable lands, the land of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. These are the lands that today have the highest value in the country. These are the lands that have been used for many years for scientific, scientific and scientific work. These are the lands that have the highest value in the country, regardless of what we had in previous years, crops, crops. This is the future of our country's food security. From this point of view, putting such a rule on the removal of particularly valuable lands is not relevant, in my view, because this is a matter that is still threatening the country's food security. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u185	Thank you. What do MPs do? I think they're making interfractional connections because Parliament is a place for all MPs. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting 10 amendments. It is considered by the committee, so please also support and vote. [[13:30:27]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you see, such almost unanimity support in the hall. Why don't you take the right step to approach? Nestor Ivanovich! 11 amendment, please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. I've seen a lot of things in this room. I want to remind you that it is me and my companions, by the way, that my fellow national deputies of the third vocation are present in this room, that they remember what a slaughter it was for people to have the right to sell the land. But there was one condition: at a fair price. It is for justice that we stand and fight today. Today, we demand to stop this vacchanal, to continue the moratorium on the sale of land, to create real conditions for a fair sale at a fair price, by raising pensions by raising wages. And today you're only raising tariffs, and what people could sell, you want to take away from them for nothing. That's what we're up against. Thank you. Please correct on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u187	I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 11. The committee has taken it into account, so please also support and vote. [[13:32:17]] For 280 Decision taken. Next amendment 19, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u188	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. Further on, the point is that the purpose of the market around agricultural land was not simply to insist on these amendments, because we talked to you about the fact that the expansion of agroholdings would lead to an increase in the share of raw economy, raw materials, exports and agricultural production. These are the trends that stand up for third world countries. To my profound belief, this is not necessary by our country, this is not necessary by modern Ukraine. Ukraine has, if we're looking at this vector, it has to develop agricultural machinery. We've already talked about animal farming, irrigation, farm processing and so on. These are all the steps that need a whole different tool: fiscal tools, regulators, but not the things that will increase the rawness of the national economy. We may, of course, be able to move a long way along the amendments, to confirm them or not, but the law itself is contrary to the national interests and interests of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 19th Amendment, are asked to be accounted for. I am informing you that this amendment has been taken into account by the committee, so please also support and vote. [[13:33:57]] For 278 Decision taken. Next Amendment 21. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, right? Nestor Ivanovich, you don't have an exclusive microphone. You've got the cards. It doesn't matter. 20. What's next? All right, did you take all the modifications for confirmation? Please. I'll remind you, that's the 21st amendment. 21 is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, 21st Amendment. The 21th Amendment is a principle for us. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we will insist that it be put on confirmation. You know why? Because now you're laughing at those landowners you're putting in fortification, and I'd say slavery to agroholdings. That's what we're up against. That's what we're up against. And believe me, your children will ask you another question: Why did you have the opportunity to rob Ukrainian lands? Why didn't you protect us? I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u191	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Stefanchuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready to vote? Amendment number 21. The committee was supported, counted. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:35:59]] For 292 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u192	Next amendment 22. Who's it gonna be? Alexandre Sergiyovich, are you coming in or out? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u193	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I think it's time for everyone. I would like to thank you for the word that you have given us the opportunity to raise the very sharp question that today is. But I would like to point out that in terms of the decline in the purchasing power of Ukrainian citizens, in terms of the increase in tariffs, let's not laugh, because from January 1st we raised the price of gas to 10,000 200 dollars. This is ridiculous at all! Listen, when you criticized the 8550 powder, I understood because I saw economic instruments to lower the price of gas. But when you compared it to a price of almost 2,000 dollars for a thousand cubes of gas, I already have. I don't see any logic here except how purely corrupt. In these circumstances, of course, to force Ukrainian citizens to sell their rations is certainly an important rule that can cover the debts of citizens for residential services. Yes, these things, they are intertwined in a strange way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u194	So you're asking me to make 22 amendments? You forgot, we were talking about the 22th amendment. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 22 amendments on confirmation. The committee counted it. Colleagues doubt that he did it right. Therefore, I ask the Chamber to support and vote. [[13:37:48]] For 283 Decision taken. Next amendment 23. Nestor Ivanovich. Oh, I'm sorry, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u195	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I was so excited when I offered to go to the presidency to present an amendment that I had forgotten.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u196	Don't worry, there's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u197	22 Amendment in essence. I'd like to draw attention to another very important point where we're talking about the results of our activities, so it's that we're voting on different land initiatives here, but they're not in any way improving agricultural production in the country. Now, we voted last year on land law 2178-10, a number of other land laws, but then why did agricultural production fall by 11.5 percent in a year? Why is it going down by 5 percent this year? And there's a number of other related secondary things that show that we're working in a completely different direction, we're moving in that vector. So from this point of view, this amendment is to say no to that land, agriculture and even economic policy implemented by the government over the period 2019-2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u198	Thank you. After all, you jumped first in 22, then you went back to her, right, I get it? 22-a, right? Let me bet on confirmation of the 22 amendment. The committee counted it. Therefore, I ask the Chamber to support and vote. [[13:39:30.]] For 282 Decision taken. The 23rd amendment. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u199	Thank you very much for being able to express your position on the correction from your workplace. I can tell you, there has never been such a precedent. But unfortunately, our attempt to stop you from doing this, but it's probably not a marathon, it's a sprint to dissipate Ukrainian land as quickly as possible. And when I see that it's those people's deputies who are included in the sorority group that are most happy about it, that somehow I don't see them when I'm looking at the amendments, and now they're slipping away, I'm holding back from comparisons. But believe me, people, for what's going on here today, right these days, right this week, believe me, they're going to express their position. Please place the amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u200	I'm betting on confirmation of the 23rd amendment. The committee counted it. Please also support and vote. [[13:41:00]] For 272 Decision taken. Next amendment 25. Who's it gonna be? Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u201	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. I wanted to look again at the provisions of the proposed land law. But I can't help but notice that now, in terms of low investment attractiveness, the implementation of this bill, you know, it's, frankly, criminal. Because selling land when it's at the lowest critical value of one hectare is criminal in terms of national interests. And of course, forcing people into other regulations, such as lifting or, as you call it, equalizing the cost of a hectare of land, that's exactly what's called for forcing people to just get rid of them and to think of them as critically low things. I certainly understand what's going on in both the hall and the country as a whole. But what I want to tell you is that this will never improve the state of affairs in all areas of the country's vitality, completely in everyone, starting with the economy, from the social sphere. If you think you're going to run a consumer market from what you're going to put in there now in addition to a few billion dollars, I don't think that's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u202	I'm betting on 25 amendments that are considered by the committee for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:42:36]] For-286 Decision taken. Next amendment to the 28th, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u203	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. All this was done by the authorities to extend this Law on the Earth, including all laws, and changes to a series of legislative acts that are provided for today’s vote. You shut down the opposition company, shut down the press company, shut down the channels, introduce unconstitutional baseless sanctions. Where are the terrorists? You will soon have all Ukrainians as terrorists because they will not agree with what you are doing. Can a terrorist be his own people? We have in Ukraine, unfortunately, from terrorists to activists one step. In this way, let people today live in peace, in peace, so that the value of the earth is like that of our neighbors, not of the north, but of the nearest of the south and the west, in Poland, Romania, Hungary. Please confirm the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u204	Confirm? So you're supporting her, too? Then I'm betting on confirmation of the 28th amendment. The committee counted it. Please also support and vote. [[13:44:15]] For 276 Decision taken. Next line is 29th. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I was in Hungary last week. You know, I've been looking forward to these citizens who are being taken care of in every direction. They have almost two times the lowest tariffs on gas and electricity, two times the lower utility, wages, pensions 6-7 times the higher, the cost of land 8 times the higher. Inoculated (warning!) About half the population of Hungary. They are four times less than Ukrainians, and the land is 7.5 times less than in Ukraine. Why can they, and we, the honorable authorities, do not? Why were they able to find 4 million vaccines, and we're fighting about a million? Who will be responsible?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u206	I'll bet you a vote on number 29. It's supported by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:45:49]] For 279 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Dear colleagues, we have two more tickets, 45 and 52, on which the Opposition Platform insists on life, and 11 rights on which the Fatherland insists: 724th, 725th, 915th, 1074th, 1425th, 1430th, 1615th, 1746th, 1799, 1800th, 1801th. And no one's insisting on the papers anymore, do I understand? Right? You didn't write, 426. Dear colleagues, 11 already left, talked about. It's already 11, I just named them all, the ones you brought me. So we have 13 rights, and we vote for the law. Is there no objection? Do you have a deal? It's a deal. I'm going to continue this session for 15 minutes, or until we finish this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] 15 minutes, according to the Rules, I can continue the meetings, my honourable colleagues, raise, look at the Rules. Now it's 45 then 52th. Who? Coltunovich, 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u207	Thank you, Mr. Head. We had the total number of amendments from our faction, almost 900, some of which were taken into account, in principle, we put them in for confirmation, they found confirmation in this room. But it is worth noting that these are not the fundamental amendments that we have insisted on, for example, overcoming the raw economic orientation, holding a referendum, removing those norms that apply to particularly valuable lands and so on. Therefore, from this point of view, the bill has not been substantially transformed and is not the one to vote for. I'd like to remind the people that once in our time, we're in a second reading today, we've already cancelled this bill once in a second reading and we haven't supported it as a whole. I urge the hall to repeat the decisive step they took a few months ago, and to send it either to the second, or to reject it at all, as one that conflicts with national interests. So I want all of you to work hard right now and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u208	I'll bet you a vote on the 45th amendment. Please support and vote. [[13:48:44]] For 280 Decision taken. 52, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u209	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I understand that this shameful law will now be passed. What will be voted on? In fact, the fortification or slavery of small landowners will be voted before the agroholdings who will rent and then purchase the land for no price. To no avail, I emphasize. That's why we fought. I've met and conducted a lot of these "smart" teams with new faces from this room. And today, I want to tell the Ukrainians that the first law of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine will be to repeal all of these laws, which today effectively ensure the slavery and fortification of our inhabitants in the countryside -- those on which Ukraine stands. So today you may extend this law. But in the next election, you will be responsible. Please place the amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u210	Thank you. Now we're going to the 11 rights that were marked "Paternity." Julia Volodymyrna, are you? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. I'll bet you 52 votes. It's counted by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:50:26]] For 275 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 724 law, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u211	Now I want to turn to the people of Ukraine, because there is no hope at all, no need at all, because they act strictly against Ukraine and against people's interests. But 724, I'd like you to notice that they're stretching. I just want to quote now. Attention! That's what Hallimon did, and you support it. "The right to rent a land plot of an agricultural assignment may be alienated, passed on to a mortgage without agreement with the owner of such land." Do you have any idea what you're voting for?Oh, my God! You strip people of pies, you give them the right without the permission of a man who owns the pie, sells them, pays them off, does something else. Is that how you treat people who own pies? Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u212	I'll bet you 724 votes. It's supported by the committee. I'll bet it on confirmation, 724 revisions. Please support and vote. [[13:52:03]] For 257 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 725 right, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u213	I want to draw people's attention to the fact that there was a massive vote in this room just so that, at the offer of the land mafia in this room, without agreeing with the owners of the pies, they could take away the land, rent it, sell it, anything. So this is the 2rd edition of Mr. Solski, who's doing the raiding all over the country today, so this right here says that if the land is in the emphysics, think it's not for sale, it's like they've adopted the land because of emphiteussis, it's a lease so that these lands can also be mortgaged, sold, alienated and so on. This means that those land plots, the pies that are now in the emphitheus, will also be alienated and passed on without the consent of the owner of the pie. I'm asking you not to confirm this. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, 725 requisitions. The committee was counted. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. 725. [[13:53:39]] For 275 Decision taken. Next line is 915. It's considered editorially. Turn on Tymoshenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u215	I, my dear friends, want to say that now more than 226 people have confirmed that people are taking pies, practically handing them over as collateral, or selling them without consent to the owners of pies. Do you understand who's sitting on this Supreme Council? You simply know that today everyone who votes in favour of this law to deprive Ukrainians of the right to own their land is the criminals who will be responsible for it sooner or later. Our team will introduce you to the entire country, who voted in practically favour of taking 72 percent of the territory in Ukraine and drinking it. And the amendment that we're talking about right now is an amendment that allows, contrary to the President's promises, without a referendum, to sell land to foreigners. And now I ask you not to support the sale of Ukrainian land to foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u216	I'm betting on the vote number 915. It's edited by the committee. I'm betting on confirmation in the paper, like the committee did. Ready to vote? Please support and vote, 915 revisions. [[13:55:19]] For 282 Decision taken. 1074, Timoshenko. The edit is also edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u217	Dear friends, I want to continue this conversation right now, to tell the Ukrainians about the crimes that are being committed in this room. Amendment 1074, Solski's law, which is one of the great landowners in Ukraine who represents the interests of those speculators outside Ukraine and inside who claim to buy Ukrainian lands now. So what's this paper about? That the predominant right to purchase agricultural land is granted to persons who are authorized to produce beneficial fossils of a state - owned purpose. This means that agricultural lands will primarily be sold to those who want to exploit what they want to take away from Ukraine without informing the State. And Solski's going through it. This means that the top layer of the earth of the black earth can be removed. Don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u218	I'll bet you 1074. Edited by the committee. I'm betting this position on confirmation, 1074. Please support and vote. [[13:56:55]] For 281 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 1425, we can't put it, it's a negative. 1430, edited. No, I can see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u219	1428.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u220	1425. Written by your colleagues. 1430. Let Krulko come along. By the time 1430, we'll be back if it's 1428. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u221	1428. I want to, I'm talking about 1428. And I want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u222	For the time being, talk to 1430. Let's go back to 1428.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u223	So restart, please, and handle the changes. I'm talking 1428. I have a request to direct your attention right now to the fact that there is a crime in the hall. A crime that allows for the sale of especially valuable lands. I want to say that Law 1428 speaks of the cessation of the right of permanent use of lands of particular value, namely forests, waters, natural reserves, especially valuable Blacklands, including the land of science. All of this is given the right to sell by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, not even the Cabinet of Ministers, but by agreement with authorized officials of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Ukrainians now have especially valuable lands — forests, waters, lands, and reserves! Vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u224	1428 edited. I'm betting on the committee's confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:59:20]] For 272 Decision taken. 1430.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u225	Amendment 1430. It continues this vacchanal, which the Soleski and all the merchants of the land, who are working on the order, who are getting the money for it, are now protruding the 1430 that Nagayevski introduced. The same is what you and I had before in the code, which especially valuable lands were forbidden to strip off this piece of shit. And it is only by doing so that the nation has maintained its especially valuable lands: forests, waters, especially precious black lands, natural, historical reserves, lands of science, lands that grow seed funds for Ukraine. Now this right, 1430, as in the previous 1428 law, destroys the preservation of especially valuable lands for Ukraine. Everything for sale, everything from the hammer, just destroys Ukraine like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u226	Amendment 1430. It was taken into account by the committee in part. I'm betting on her to confirm the committee's proposal. Please support and vote. [[14:00:53]] For 281 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 1615.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u227	Amendment 1615 is the right of the head of the Salt Committee to take all of this, and to extend in its decisions, in its interests and in the interests of the corrupt structures that surround it in Ukraine and outside Ukraine. It's the same thing, it says here directly that all operations with particularly valuable lands of state and municipal property located in the areas of the natural-intelligence fund can be sold out, but to do so with an official, you have to agree with someone. This is what they prepared for you in Ukraine. And I just want to tell the Ukrainians right now that sooner or later this green power is going to end, and those who surround it and profit from it, and all those who are now taking part in this robbery of Ukraine will be accountable under the Criminal Code. You're not hiding behind a collective vote because this is a violation of the Constitution. And your president must.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u228	To the 1615 vote. It's considered editorially. I'm betting on the committee's confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:02:28]] For 276 Decision taken. Next item is 1746.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u229	Edit 1746, right here in the collective of Salichuk, Grishchenko, Kirichenko, and this is a particularly important amendment. I'm just going to read what they wrote there and what they made for the Ukrainians. I read, "Citizens who have the right to use land permanently," you know, these are cities, these are the unfortunate hectares that were allocated to farmers for farming, and also citizens with the right to inherit land forever.".. They're farmers, they're the ones who inherited the land. They're all now told by this Earth Code that they're going to take this land away from them if they don't go to auctions and buy it out against foreign banks. They're practically depopulated now. And I'm asking the hall, at least don't support it, have a little conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u230	I'm betting on a vote of 1746. She was rejected by the committee. She was supported by the committee and counted. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:04:03]] For 270. Decision taken. Two more revisions. 1799.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, frankly, there is absolutely no point in talking to you, because it's important to you how much you pay for your push buttons, not what you vote for. I just want to talk to the Ukrainians right now. Once they've confirmed that this new green power is going to take away from people the land that they have in constant use, the cities, the lands that are still there, and the things that people have inherited forever. This means that a huge wave of selection begins in the earth’s people. And you know that many people who associate their lives with the earth will not want to live afterwards. And their lives, their misery, then all that they will bear, on your conscience. But still, the 1799 lands will be sold to foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u232	I'm betting on a vote of 1799. The committee is an editorial committee. I'm betting on confirmation of the committee's acceptance. Please support and vote. [[14:05:40]] For 269 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. And the extreme is 1800, Timoshenko. Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u233	1800. Another famous man in the Black Sea, who clearly states in the Codex earth that they will sell land to foreigners. And you know what's happening now? The "ministers of the people" are roaring because they don't give a shit. You see, they don't give a shit about your property, about your grief, about your land! And the head of the agrarian committee, which is one of the largest landowners, the Solian rust is also on the rostrum. They are so pleased today that they have the majority, and they can act against yours, Ukraine, interests and Ukraine! They do it by joking and smiling. A new 95 block in Parliament. And so I want to tell you, even if you vote now, I'm confident that the people will rise up against this and you won't be allowed to take away the sacred Ukrainian land in the Ukrainian nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u234	I'm betting on a vote of 1,800, that's an extreme amendment, and then we're going to vote for the law. It's considered editorially. I'm betting on the committee's confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:07:16]] For 275 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. I'm betting on voting the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukraine Code of Land and other legislative acts to improve the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations (registration No. 2194). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:08:14]] For 284
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-28-m0.u235	Decision taken. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" – 237, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 7, "European Solidarity" – 2, "Fathership" – 0, "Party for the Future" – 8, "Voice" – 7, "Trust" – 19, non-fractional – 4. Thank you, Your Honor. The plenary session of the Supreme Council is closed. I'll remind you, we'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
