ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it together until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:03:13]] There are 125 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Ukraine celebrates the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1992 on December 3, together with the world community. This day is called on to draw social attention to the problems of people, to protect their rights, dignity, and well - being. Honourable National MPs, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the Conciliation Council, a proposal was adopted for parliamentary factions and groups to listen to "hours of questions to the Government" of information from the Ukrainian Minister's Office on Ukraine's defenceability in 2021: the security summary of the year and prospects. Dear colleagues, the next order is proposed to hold an hour of questions to the government. The Defense Minister's report on the subject is up to 20 minutes. The answer to questions from MPs and groups is up to 21 minutes. The Prime Minister's and government members' replies to questions from Ukrainian national deputies are up to 20 minutes. There's no objection. Then, honorary colleagues, we invite Defence Minister Alexei Yuriovich Reznikov to the rostrum for the report. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, distinguished national MPs! Tomorrow will be the month when I was appointed Secretary of Defense. And these 30 days, together with the team, we analyzed the current situation, formed an operational plan by the end of this year, and set priorities for 2022. After December 6th, materials will be published in the official media of the Ministry of Defense, where we will thoroughly reveal the main steps in the most important directions. And the whole point of our plans is two theses. First. The Ministry of Defence is to become one of the best corporations in Ukraine in terms of governance efficiency, and the Armed Forces is one of the best employers. The other one. We must move from tactical decisions to the systematic development of the fundamental capabilities of the Armed Forces. I'd like to stop at the next one today. During the 30 days in this office, I visited our soldiers in the area of operation of the United Nations and in the south of Ukraine, along with the Chief Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to see for myself the situation where the greatest threat is. For eight days, I was away on a mission, including visits to the United States and Israel, and all of this turned out to be very meaningful. He also communicated with international advisers and partners in different formats. We had a few days of intensive work with the profile committee. And I would like to thank the head of the Committee, Alexander Zawiwicz, and all the members of the Committee for their very constructive interaction. Likewise, I thank the Ministry of Finance, we have managed to get through the work situation successfully and count the cash and the fighting on time for our military. All of this allowed us to look at the state of things at different angles and complex. It's a safe situation. First. Our vision of the Russian Federation's new preparations coincides with the estimates of foreign partners, and intelligence interacts very intensively. The only difference is perception. For us, this war lasts almost eight years, and we are grateful to our partners who started talking about Russian aggression and the threat openly, but when it's fixed and recognized by them, we suggest that we focus on developing a common response. Russia has been using waves of its own over the course of the year. There was a concentration of troops near our borders, then a special composition was placed at a place of permanent deployment, and the technique remained. This allows the opponent to shorten the opening time. In April and September of this year, Russia brought more than 50 battalion tactical groups to our borders. Now, around Ukraine and in the temporarily occupied Crimea, there are 41 battalion tactical teams, 33 of them on a permanent basis, 8 additionally transferred to Crimea. The total number of troops in the territory of the Russian Federation, as well as in the temporarily occupied areas that may be involved for escalation, is now estimated at 94.3 thousand. In Russia, the winter teaching period began, and an opponent has already begun training near Ukraine: he has intensified his intelligence, has checked connections, and has taken steps to disguise himself. During the past week, there was an increase in tanks and armory in groups in the Bránsk and Smolen regions. In the event of the arrival of two large ships of the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea, the total number in the region will increase to nine. Along with the boats, this will allow the opponent to transfer up to 3,000 military personnel at the same time and up to 250 units of armored combat equipment. This suggests maintaining the level of tension in the Azores-Black Sea region. We are not the only ones who observe these maneuvers, so there will be no surprises. On the contrary, our military forces are strengthening at the highest risk. The other one. Our intelligence analyzes all scenarios, including the worst. It notes that the probability of a massive escalation on the part of Russia exists. The most likely time to achieve escalation is the end of January. I would stress that escalation is a credible scenario, but not necessarily. And our job is to turn him away. The better we work alone and with our partners, the less the risk of escalation. The way is to make the price of possible escalation unacceptable to the aggressor. Ukraine's most interested in a political-diplomatic settlement scenario, no strong provocation on our part, in principle, can be. At the same time, the way of the aggressor's peace is not being considered, and if needed, Ukraine will give way. Third. The opponent is already applying a series of nonmilitary measures: information, economic, energy, and so on. His goal is to provoke internal destabilisation that will weaken our defenses. Similarly, after the de facto angle of Belarus, we have more than a thousand kilometers of border that needs to be protected, especially during the winter period, we understand these risks and we prepare. Under the coordination of the RNA, the algorithm of the interaction of all forces in the event of a possible hybrid attack by migrants from Belarus, the army will be ready to do its part if the threat rises. At the same time, we have intensive consultations with international partners. And this month, I was talking to the U.S. Defense Ministers, Great Britain and Israel. Today's scheduled conversation with a Canadian colleague, the next day a meeting with three European defence ministers, soon a work in the form of "Quardriga" with Turkey. We're talking about concrete, quick and visual steps, public and non-public. All the partners I have already communicated with express Ukraine’s full support. In particular, yesterday the Council of the European Union adopted a decision to strengthen practical cooperation with Ukraine within the framework of the European Peace Fund. The EU will allocate 31 million euros to our hospitals, as well as to strengthen our engineering cyber and logistics capabilities. Colleagues, this is a precedent: the decision to provide practical assistance for defence at EU level in this format is taken for the first time. Yesterday I met with the Head of the EU Representation in Ukraine, Mr Matty Maasikas, and expressed my gratitude and appreciation for the support of Ukraine. To sum up this block: the situation in the Armed Forces is stable, the fighting spirit of our defenders and our defenders is high, the army is almost 95 percent vaccinated with COVID, our soldiers are ready to do their duty, and we just need to support them. With regard to the implementation of the defence purchase plan. On December 1, the State of the World Health Organization accounts for $19.5 billion and plans for $23.1 billion, which is almost 85 percent of the plan. By the end of this year, almost four more banking weeks, we are making every effort to make the most of those assigned funds. We also consider the reasons that prevented us from acting rhythmically during the year. One of the factors is that it was the first year of the new Law on the Defence of Purchasing, and there were no necessary regulations. Because of a number of circumstances, the potential of State guarantees was not involved. During the committee’s consideration, I saw where planning can be improved at the level of executives. And we took it to work, and thank you to the committee for the picture and the demonstration and the help. All defence purchases will be sought by developing the fundamental capabilities of the Armed Forces and ensuring that their troops are equipped. One of the priorities is the missile program and the development of fleet capacity. We are moving to the practical stage of the construction of two naval bases in Berdjansk and Oczek and other contracts under arrangements with the United Kingdom. Now in separate positions, we see some lobbyists competing. There are examples of decades of production or development being financed without a clear understanding of what the result will be and whether it will be relevant at all. We're going to stop these things to concentrate resources on what's really necessary and has a perspective. We're counting on close cooperation with the Ministry of Strategic Industry. Now, about the results of the year and the plans. Last week, along with the Chief of Staff, we attended a meeting in Odessa, dedicated to the results of the 2021 military force. Previously on Wide Lan, we've been watching the use of Ukrainian bairactars and Ukrainian javelins. We're going to get to know the details of the profile committee, because there are enough applications. With regard to the Ministry of Defense. During the current year, my colleagues have done a lot to strengthen their security: a package of basic defence planning documents has been formed, an important framework agreement for cooperation with the United States has been signed, an agreement with the United Kingdom on the participation of 1.7 billion pounds in the development of the fleet. There are jobs that we are now grasping and filling with content. At the same time, there are several directions where I think it is my job to step up. On Monday, we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Three quarters of our new history, our army existed in a decommissioning regime that interrupted several attempts to reform, and a quarter of history goes to war. On the one hand, there are problems that have been accumulated for decades, programmed since Soviet times, and there are consequences that during the war, urgent decisions have been made to save the situation. The task now is to continue the changes in the military, to give these processes systems. I'll do six positions. First. The implementation of defence reform to transform the Ministry of Defence into an effective civil authority that forms politics, as well as the military and administrative administration of the Armed Forces, and provides civil-democracy control. In the near future, I plan to approve a new ministry structure that will reflect at the functional level the most important directions: strategy, financial resources management, security and logistics; arms, digital transformation; human capital, potential development; international cooperation and communication. A gradual demilitarization in the Ministry has begun, and the military will be concentrated in the General Staff. By the end of the year, five inter-structural committees are planned to improve the effectiveness of decision making. This is an implementation of NATO principles based on the recommendations of our strategic advisers. We are not yet perfect, but we are changing, and there are certain developments. For example, the training committee has already approved a draft decision on the admission of foreign education units. Soon this document, the President's decree, will be brought to the attention of the Halls, and last time this decision was approved by the end of January. There is now an opportunity to adopt it in a timely manner. I'm asking you to support me. The other one. One of the first steps is to build an efficient, transparent purchasing system. We plan to create in the Ministry of Defence an analogy of the NATO Agency for support and purchases such as NSPA. It will structurally contain a part that will be used to purchase goods, jobs, and defence services, as well as a part that will be responsible for food, fuel, supplies, and so forth. Third. The priority is a complex digital transformation of the defence sector. It's about introducing the Ministry of Defense of the IRP system to manage resources and business processes in the Ministry. Over the course of the year, we plan to launch a process of total inventory of the entire defence sector in terms of both property and personnel and other resources. Managing one of the most war organizations in Europe without adequate data is nonsense. As far as the Armed Forces are concerned. It is the deployment of automated systems of strategic, tactical, and sectoral management. This question has long been out of date, and we will decide as quickly as possible. For this reason, we have full consensus with Commander-in-Chief, Mr. Valérie Handicraft. The four are personnel reform. We're working to raise the money for our soldiers, but the mechanical increase in payments, without changing the approach of personnel, will not solve the existing problem, and there's not enough money for that. A transparent system of military career management that is not tied to the rank of military should come to the fore. Similarly, the military will be bound to the base rate of the money supply. At the same time, state-of-the-art categories will be reviewed so that the work of lieutenants or captains will not be carried out by colonels. We're going to gradually raise the money to make the military's work more competitive in general in the economy. The goal is a fair, understandable system that will allow the best to be involved. The implementation of this reform will take at least three years, but we need to start it, because it is not only a military threat from Russia, it will be a serious demographic challenge in a few years, and we need to prepare an answer now. Those who take up my present or your chairs after five years will simply no longer have time to prepare. Fifth. Systemic management of financial resources. Thank you to Parliament for taking the Ministry of Defence's proposals into account for the second reading of the State Budget. The amount of expenditure compared to the first reading increased by two and a half billion dollars, allowing people to guarantee a rhythmic payment of money and some increases. Together with state guarantees, the resources for the Ministry of Defence will amount to over 148 billion dollars -- the largest budget of the Ministry of Defence in the history of an independent Ukraine. At the same time, in the next year’s budget, the share of defense expenditure is about 3 percent of GDP, but this does not solve important tasks. More than 70 percent of the Minobran resource goes to maintenance. Military training and weapons are financed by 15-20 percent of the need. And it's been going on for more than a decade. We're going to do everything we can to improve the efficiency of using funds, especially to find internal reserves. Immediately after my assignment, I invited the State Audit Service to conduct a comprehensive audit. Similarly, in the near future, we will not re-arm our army without increasing budget costs and changing their structure. So in 2022 we want to start a dialogue with Parliament about structural changes in the provision of the army, and so that the budget for 2023 will already reflect that. Six. A new quality of military diplomacy is needed. The attaché for the defence of military and technical representation is given clear assignments for the countries of the country of residence. And by inertia, we ask for some dot things -- and we get what they give us, not what we need. The goal is to develop fundamental abilities primarily in the air, in the sea, in cyberspace, in the field of radio-electronic warfare, etc. We analyze existing arrangements so that they do not conflict with our needs and with each other. The issue of interaction with NATO needs to be highlighted separately. I've already said that I want to focus on de facto integration. The alliance's standards and interaction are interesting to us because they give priority, and it's not just about the defence sector. The annual program contains many political economic issues. As soon as we view this as an internal improvement, it will be easier for us to have a dialogue with our partners. There is no end answer in a string. First of all, it's military housing. The history of housing ownership after a certain period of service is no longer working, it needs to be stopped. We have over 40,000 people to blame. It's a snow coma. The queue needs to be analyzed and carried out gradually, but this practice needs to be abandoned as soon as possible. The accent has to be done on two things. The first is adequate staffing during the service. The second is the accumulation programs that create for the military at some point in time to buy their own housing for the active promotion of the state. This applies in the form of a mortgage, compensation, leasing, and other forms. We're calculating different models, we're looking at the actual features of the Ministry of Defense today, and we're offering a package of solutions. It takes a few months, since the question is sensitive, the decision has to be taken. There will also be an optimal model of the organization of territorial defence of national resistance to make defence truly inclusive. As mentioned on December 6, we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The enemy has shown us why we need an army and what happens when you don't care about it. Not every nation has the privilege of an army. A cheap army is a symbol of state and state as such, sovereign, independent. The modernization of the army is the protection of the right to its own state and the right to choose the future for its offspring. The Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Ukraine are ready to carry out our tasks. I call on the entire Ukrainian Parliament to cooperate. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the question. I remind you that it takes up to 21 minutes. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u4	Please pass the word to your colleague Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u5	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u6	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Secretary, we wish you success in this position of responsibility. You've come to this position at an unforgivable time, but there have been times, for God's sakes, and worse. I have three questions. First. The foreign minister publicly stated in an interview that the door to NATO had been closed for Ukraine. How would you comment on that? The second question. Are there still debts owed to military personnel on all the payments that were made before? And the third. In absolute terms, how much will the military support increase next year? And how much will a young person who has entered into the ministry be contracted as a minimum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u7	Thank you so much for asking. Short. Decision-making on Ukraine's accession to NATO will be political in nature, a political decision of all the countries of the Alliance. And you know there's no agreement in the Alliance today about that. There are some countries that continue to follow the "don't provoke Russia" tactics. But we don't have to wait and be ready to enter the de facto, and the de jure will happen when our day is with you. The second is about debt. There is no current debt situation, but of course it may appear, and we are working on it. We have full cooperation with the Minister of Finance, Mr. Sergei Marchenk. I don't think we're going to be repeating such cases. Third. As it grows, I'm not going to be able to tell you right now, because we also have to calculate the possibilities of the state budget. But my minimum goal is that today, on average, soldiers get 10,000, 200 dollars, and the average minimum wage is 14,000, 300 dollars. So, at the very least, my job is to increase the net by 30 percent and the net by up there. In order for this to happen next year, you're going to need plus 18 billion dollars. Unfortunately, there is no such resource in the state budget today, so we will be looking for compromise solutions. And as I said, over the course of three years, we've been building a model that's clear, transparent, which is basically fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u8	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I understand that if you are not prepared to raise the material, financial security for the soldiers for the following year, the answers to this year's debt repayment, which is now worth 2 billion 325 million dollars, you will not have either. Besides, I'd like to get an answer from you on the matter of assessing the state defense order. What's her condition now? How do you appreciate it? How many new military contracts were made on November 1st? And how much percentage of these contracts are being implemented this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u10	Thank you. I don't know why you concluded that I wasn't set for promotion. I was just answering a colleague's question, and in my speech, I said that this was one of the key priorities: raising money and aligning it to market conditions, which is that the Armed Forces are going to be one of the best employers. I understand that was your comment. Today, in my speech, I have made it clear that today, 85 percent of the commitments that the State Department has made are already under state control. We still have four banking weeks left, after which we plan to completely close all the plans that are set up in the WHO. We're working closely with the parliamentary committee, and any changes to POPs, even if they're negative, we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u11	We're done, aren't we? Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear Alexei Yuriovich, the question of such a plan. Ukraine has been at war for eight years. We are now seeing another sharpening in the eastern part of our nation, we are seeing an increase in the Russian Armed Forces, Russian groups on the borders of our country, and in this context, we need a modern, new system of anti-aircraft defenses of our nation, which has started since 2012. There are old Soviet-era airplanes on the armament, old anti-aircraft complexes of Soviet times. What do you think we need in order to create a powerful modern system of anti-air defence that is essential in these realities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u13	Thank you so much for asking. Two things. First. That's a priority, and so we're talking about a rocket program, which we've got down to 2032. Of course, it takes money, but today we're making decisions in some direction with our partners, and so one of the contracts with the United Kingdom is about to solve one of these problems. But the main bet must be on the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex, which is capable of making modern and rocket rockets, and air-rocket complexes. I already had one meeting yesterday with our leading company, such as the Luc KGB, with Mr. Korostelov. We talked about the state having to invest in its own military-industrial production (complex) in order to be completely independent even of our friendly partners. We must remain strategically independent, working on it. The main need is a large sum of money, and here I hope to support Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the People's Deputy Costenko, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u15	Good afternoon, Minister. Roman Costenko, the Voice faction. Mr. Minister, the strategic planning process in the area of national security and defence is extremely important right now, but we have a little bit of a gap. By 2020, we had lost control of the Ukrainian Armed Forces development programme, which was by 2020. So please explain at what stage this program is being prepared by 2025. That's the first question. And the second. On August 26, a decree was signed by the President on the creation of the Cybervies. We realize that this can in the future be one of the weapons of restraint for us. So tell me, please. And we understand that this requires the adoption of laws in the Supreme Council. So at what point is it important for Ukraine to create these cybervies? And the last. Tell me, did we use javelins on the front or not? Because society is asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u16	Thank you. Thank you so much for asking. About the program and the strategy. We're a little late, that's true. A month ago, she was supposed to be offered to start a profile committee. But with two updated teams, we work with the Office, the General Staff, and the Chief of Staff. He's already signed his section with his head, and now he's at the Ministry. I think we'll make it available to you within a week. With regard to the creation of cyberwaves. Absolutely clear plan, and on all my visits and meetings, I discussed with our partners their assistance in this regard, because they also mark cyber threats as one of the five major threats on the part of our unfriendly neighbor. And so today, since this is a component of the Armed Forces, we're doing the same thing with Glaucoma and with the General Staff, and we're going to come to you with a draft of the relevant legislative arrangement. This is a priority of one in five. And the third. Let me put it this way: We do not violate the Minsk Accords, we do not attack in the area of operation of the United Nations. If the enemy, the occupying forces, commit violations of the regime of silence, kill our military, we warn through the SCCC regime, through the OSCE SMS that they stop violating the Minsk Accords, the regime of silence. In the event that this mechanism does not work, the Armed Forces, using Article 51 of the UN Statute on the Right to Self-Protection, shall apply all necessary force and means and answer immediately. As an example, you know the fact that we were forced to use Bajraktar with one clear shot at the appropriate machine gun. According to our intelligence report, the occupying forces are now afraid to sign up and serve in such facilities. They understand how this can end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given to Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunovich, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u18	Mr. Head, I ask you to pass the word to Anatoly Petrovich Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u19	Please, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, our Ukrainian people have been paying for almost 7 or 8 years of military service by one and a half percent. According to my information, a lot of the left-hand parts of this money go towards improving the welfare and management of the Ministry's own apparatus. Are you prepared, together with the House of Auditors, to carry out an audit of the purpose of using these funds and to report to the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people what they are paying for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u21	Thank you so much for asking. I'll remind you again, in my speech, I said that one of the first letters I signed was a request to the State Audit Service to carry out the examination. Second, it's now direct communication with the House of Accounts. There are already certain materials that were made before I was assigned by your decision, Parliament, to this position. And as soon as we analyze what's there, and there's really a lot of interesting stuff. I will report publicly and publicly to the Ukrainian Parliament and to its person and to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u22	The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u23	Mr. Secretary, with great respect to you, we have listened very carefully to your report, well, quite a few of us have heard of the situation abroad. I have this question that's coming out of all the TV channels and all the news stories. After all, the world is taking a big warning about this situation that's on the border today. Not so long ago, you said that you felt that this situation was not as dangerous as it was described. In fact, yesterday’s statements by Blinken and Stoltenberg are somewhat different. Differing with the head of the Chief Intelligence Directorate, Mr. Budanov. I have a question. To what extent. Has your position changed? And to what extent is this serious? And the second question. To what extent does the Ministry prepare for the involvement of reservists in a special period without mobilization, if we really have to wait for a serious situation, a serious exacerbation on the front in January of the following year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u24	Thank you very much, but I have to make one point. There is a mistaken perception of my position in connection with the fact that my interview in Washington during Mrs. Miroslavi Gongadeze’s stay, not everyone has seen the video, but many have read it. But she was wrong about what she apologized for. On the video, she asked me if I believed the Russians would be able to take Ukraine and Ukraine would be overthrown and lost in this war. I said I didn't believe it, and I explained why. And in a printed version, they wrote, "Do you believe Putin's going on?".. And my answer was, "I don't believe it." So here's the reading, the correction was, and on the Defense Ministry website we wrote about it, and Mrs. Miroslava Gongadeze was publicly apologized and corrected this story. That's why we all fit in with our grades. The only thing, I repeat, is that I have no right as Secretary of Defense to sow panic, and Chief of Staff. So I urge you all to keep calm, weighed down, we're ready to secession. But if we panic, we lose morally. And you and I are a victorious nation. We have the victorious Armed Forces. You don't have to be in a state of euphoria, but you don't have to be in a state of panic. But we're all taking risks, and believe me, at all levels. I just can't even tell you in detail some of the consultations that I've done at the level of defense ministers, but their reaction will be very severe against the aggressor, and we have an agreement that they will do it in advance, not then. And the Kremlin has brought this quite an articulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u25	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Kuznietsev Alexy Alexanderovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u26	Please pass the word, Victoria Kinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u27	Victoria Kinsburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u28	Good afternoon. Victoria Kinsburg, "Slut of the Nation" faction, the city of Kharkiv. Minister, I have two questions for you. First. To launch defense purchases, we need a register of manufacturers, without which POPs will be in danger. What is the situation in this regard? And the second question that the people of Kharkiv are mostly interested in. By 2019, we had destroyed a number of arsenals in Ukraine. Is the investigation under way, and what is the situation of recovery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u29	I'm sorry, I didn't hear the first question. Second question, warehouses. There are two ingredients. A test of why this happened is carried out by the D.B.I. and other law enforcement authorities accordingly. But there are a few key things that the profile committee has pointed out when I met him, is to build new warehouses or transform them. There are some questionable contracts for which work is not completed, and there are criminal cases. Now we're checking with law enforcement. But I guarantee that we're going to build and build these warehouses, and the culprits who stole the money will go to jail, that's for sure. And this isn't a passive role for the media. I've been talking to some investigative journalists, so I think we're about to get the truth. I didn't hear the first question. Oh, by the register. We are working together with the Ministry of Strategic Industry, and the new Minister, Mr. Paul Rybikin, we are working together. I had previously received information that the work on this register should be completed in January. Because the Ministry of Strategic Industry is actually involved in the new legislation, and the contracting authority is the Ministry of Defence in the interests of the Armed Forces. So this tandem is guaranteed to us, in fact, we have to hold hands with the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our questions to the Secretary of Defense. Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. Please take your place. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government from the national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for questions. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savichuk Oksani Vasilivni, non-factional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u31	Oksana Savchuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Attitude. I have a very important question today and it's for Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal. Look, we've had this situation that's been going on for years about environmental challenges. Today the environmental challenge on Prikarpat is Burštin TEZ. Recently, there was a major accident, which affected four people. Today, workers are afraid to go to work because they do not feel that they have a safe place to work. But, Denise Anatolyovich, there has been a new government for two years. I have a key question: why hasn't anyone allowed a government inspection in the last two years for this production? That's why the boiler broke and people were affected today, and as a result, we may have a lot of environmental pollution in the air. I have one question. How we can work together to resolve these problems that are troubling us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u32	Thank you for your important question. Regarding a technological accident, or technological accident, in the city of Burstin. There really is a pipe in the boiler, and it has nothing to do with the ecological admission of environmental inspection into the premises of an enterprise. Sadly, people were affected. We, the Ministry, control the situation of these people. There are four workers who have suffered: two are in severe but stable condition, two are on average medium severity. These things are known to all of us and are controlled by the government and the minister personally. Regarding the admission of environmental inspection, I will give the floor to the acting minister of the environment to comment on the situation. Please, Mr. Sagittarius, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of not admitting the State Environmental Inspection to checks, it has not come up today, it is really a systemic problem that the Ministry is working on today. What I'm saying is that there's a bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine called 3091 to solve many systemic problems in the field of the work of the State Environmental Inspectorate. I want to thank those national MPs who voted in favour of this bill in the first reading. I very much hope that in a short period of time this bill will go into the hall for second reading and most of these problems will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u34	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Proscetku Eduardo Petrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Alexia Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u36	Alexei Leonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The city of Odessa, Alexei Leonov. I have a question for the Prime Minister. First. Yesterday, we accepted a budget in a country where, unfortunately, we did not pay any attention to our tax collectors. Regrettably, this decision will reduce the salary of the customs officer next year by almost a thousand dollars. I'm already talking about the necessary development of this structure. Questions. Is the Minister’s Office planning any additional programs or reserves to finance our payroll for customs? That's the first one. And the second is I have to go to Vadim Markovich, the minister of sport. Vadim Markovich, I formally invite you to the opening of the Olympic sports complex in Odessa. Thanks to your efforts and the efforts of the members of the district council, this sports complex in Odessa has been reconstructed for the first time in 10 years, it's funded by the President's program of nearly 100 million dollars, and it can open the door for our little Odessa. We're waiting for you to open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Before addressing the Minister of Finance, I would like to ask him to complete it in more detail. But what I want to assure you is that there is a whole program of customs reform, which is where not only wages are involved, but both work and basic principles are involved. We also work very closely with the European Union, the European Commission. Literally last week and this week during our visit to the European Union, we talked about the introduction of standards and the unification of our rules of customs checks on the borders with them too, this also includes customs reform. And in more detail, please, Sergey Mikhailovich Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u39	I want to assure you that the cost of maintaining the customs authorities is not reduced, and the budget is sufficient. The last decision of the Cabinet of Ministers was a month ago to increase the valid salaries of customs officers. If possible, we will increase customs salaries, and we look forward to their effective work in filling the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u40	We're done, aren't we? Let's move on then. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u42	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. I have the following questions, Mr. Prime Minister. The first question is about paying thousands of fully vaccinated citizens. How long have we planned? Yesterday a law was passed, what will be the final amount this year? The other one. When will you establish order? I'm asking you people not only to spend it on theaters, sports and concerts at 95 Quarters, but I'm asking that people be offered the opportunity to pay for community services and maybe medicine. The second question I have is the situation of miners. Is there a debt on the miners now? And if so, when and how will it be paid? Because we've seen people no longer come to the surface and clap. I have a third question about a so-called national airliner. Of course, I find this idea ridiculous at all. But if this is done, will Ukrainian planes be purchased at these costs, or will we send them abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u44	Thank you for your questions. So about a thousand dollars for business support and motivation for vaccination of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you people, 8 billion dollars was put on this year's budget during the budget vote last year. So 8 million citizens of Ukraine, who, we expect to turn around and take advantage of this opportunity this year, will all be provided with this cost. On Wednesday, the government will accept the appropriate arrangements for the use of these funds, and as promised, since December 19, the program will be fully operational with the convenient use of the plugin or portal of Acts. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, the miners are the miners. The State has fulfilled all its commitments to miners. In addition, my initiative took the government’s decision back in July to oblige mine managers to pay at least 80 percent of the proceeds for the work done in the form of wage payments to miners. That is, it is the responsibility of the directors of the mines, not all of them. The Ministry of Energy is responsible for taking measures and disciplinary measures, especially for such directors, and should use them. In fact, by fulfilling its obligations under the 100 - percent grant, the State does. In fact, debt on wages is due to the improper performance of some of the managers of the mines of their obligation to pay 80 per cent of the income on wages, And with regard to the third part of the question - the internal airline (the national airlines of Ukraine) Of course, ANI will be used there. You know that the A.N. is already building three planes for the Armed Forces. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u45	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kachuri Alexandre Anatoliyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u46	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I call first to the leaders of all factions: note that in the warring country is the minister of defense, the empty hall. Please ensure that the national MPs are present when the government speaks, because it is disrespectful to the government -- it is disrespectful to its parties, it is disrespectful to the electorate, and to the Ukrainian army. Especially those factions, I refer to them, who are very fond of the army on Facebook. I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. We have a practice of professional service in Ukraine. I think all Ukrainians would like to hear the answer now when the Ukrainian army becomes contractual, what plans. Are you working on that question right now? What will happen in the future? What are some of the things that will be expected of the prospective candidates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. This is a really important and relevant issue. Today, we have both the contract approach and the appeal at the same time. You know that 250,000 according to the law is going to be added to Parliament's decision. But so far, we are studying with the Commander-in-Chief, with the General Staff, the relevance and the need for a full-time military service. My position is something like this: maybe we don't need it for such a long time, maybe make it shorter and prepare the potential of our future advocates (protectors) to be ready. It will be a very important aspect, however, of the implementation of the Territorial Defence Act, a national resistance that will take effect on January 1. This is our base reserve with you, and we will continue to fill it properly. So today I'm going to ask you for a little more time to study this situation, and we're reporting to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u48	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party "Golos". National Deputy Osadchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u49	Please, Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u50	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u51	Thank you. I have two questions for the Prime Minister. First. As the Secretary of Defense has just pointed out, there is a need. More specifically, the arms and arms budget is financed by 15-20 per cent of the need, and the military assembly brings 25 billion dollars annually to Ukraine’s state budget. I have a question. How do you feel about this money actually getting out of the general fund, but at least some of it gets into the specialized fund, so that the Ukrainian need for arms is financed by at least 50-70 percent, not 20 percent? And the second question. Two weeks ago, Interior Minister Dennis Monastirski said he needed 17 billion dollars for the Ukrainian-Russian-Belarus border. Instead, the budget that was approved yesterday is placed on the border area — attention! - 900 million dollars. I have a question: do you think that's enough? And where are the funds for the border area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u52	Thank you for your questions. So the first part. On December 1, 2021, 390 government contracts are implemented by state contractors, 275 of which are long-term contracts and 115 are new contracts. The total amount is 83 percent of the projected amount of defence financing. I mean, it's not exactly the numbers you call them, Mr. People's Deputy. Appropriately taken by the contracting authorities, more than 74 percent of the liabilities are funded by the budget. According to the State Defense Ministry, 250 government contracts are totaled, accounting for 87 percent of the anticipated funding of defence orders for the needs of the Ministry of Defence. That's a specific answer. The second part is about setting up the state border. The budget provides 17 billion dollars next year. In fact, it will be financed in 2022 by the engineering of the state border with the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus. On October 21, we approved the concept of a State-wide targeted law enforcement program for the state border. These are the decisions that have been issued in 2022 that basically plan the financing of this program through the Mini infrastructures of 15.9 billion dollars and through the State border services of 1 billion dollars. In addition, the government's decisions of 15 and 24 November this year have allocated 205 million dollars from the contingency fund, 175 of them to strengthen Ukraine's most vulnerable areas with the Republic of Belarus and an additional 30 million dollars. 175 million dollars, if I'm talking about it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u53	National Deputy of Ukraine Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u54	Alexander Kowalczuk, "Serve of the People", Equinox. Please pass the word to Igor Vasilyev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u55	Igor Vasiliev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u56	Vasilyev Igor, "Serve of the People", Sumsten. Questions to Mr. Kubrakov's Minister of Infrastructure. First of all, I want to thank the entire Universe for the work you're doing, because everyone sees changes in roads, in infrastructure. And there's also some thanks for us being able to start electrification next year for our fruitful collaboration. At the same time, there are many references to Crucifixion. Last call from the Hotyn community, Krasnopolski, The Enchantment. The divisions are closing down, and at the same time the communities are willing to co-finance, to support these offices in part, because they also have a social function. I want to ask if the work in this direction is going to be done in order to make less of a complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u57	Good afternoon. Thank you for asking. Let's take a look. If there's really such an offer from the communities to co-finance the branch of the Crucifixion, I think we'll find a clear way not to close these branches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u58	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u60	Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u61	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. It's strange to hear from the Prime Minister that miners don't spend their own money on wages at a time when the price of coal production is three times lower than the price of imported coal they buy. It is logical, therefore, that the difference in the cost of coal products was put into the budget by governments and paid off to coal miners on wages. I have a question then. My colleagues and I are anouncing another bill on budget changes for the 21st year. Is the government ready to support those changes and invest $1.1 billion in debt to coal miners on wages? Tell me clearly, because yesterday you explained to me that the Minister of Energy told you there was no debt to miners. Is the government ready to support this bill and make changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u62	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Energy to answer this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u63	Thank you so much for asking. Actually, it's about that. There are two aspects. The first is, of course, the price of coal. In fact, today's price is 3.5 thousand dollars, and this price, which came together in a market way, is already more or less equal to the real market value of coal. And that's why we're talking about what businesses actually have the opportunity to do today. There was a situation recently mentioned, which was on the Dobropilavogil mine, where workers were actually on strike in connection with pay. But once again, this mine, it's not at all on state support, and there's an appropriate possibility that everyone, in terms of the economics of the process, the economy of the enterprise, can properly secure the payment of wages, taking into account the price that has been put into the market today. And accordingly it was done: the next day, these costs were accumulated, the company received, and the repayment and debt that is today was on the mine. It's about your second aspect of the question. Actually, I didn't. We're talking about today's debt to coal miners on wages. And for today, there are adequate funds, still in the December budget, which we are now sharing with the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear government and national deputies, please remain in the Hall because there is information. Ladies and gentlemen, the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) delegation is present today on the day of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Members of the delegation expressed their desire to participate in the High Council plenary meeting and to give short talks. In accordance with the requirements of articles 6 and 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to take the appropriate procedural decision and vote on 150 votes of the people’s deputies. In view of the manner in which I have been taught, my distinguished colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. An offer is made in accordance with articles 6 and 34 of the Supreme Council Rules of the Ukraine to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the accompanying persons of the UNICEF ambassador for the inclusion of Janis McDavid and Ukrainian activist, to protect the rights of people with disabilities, Lina Deschwar. And give them a word to speak. Did you understand the substance of the proposal? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:02:21]] For 224 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite distinguished guests to the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and please welcome them. [[Applause]] Thank you, distinguished national MPs. I invite you to speak to the motivational speaker from Germany, the UNICEF ambassador for the inclusion of Janis McDevid. Please, Mr. Janis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u65	Hello! It's an honor to be here. I would like to thank you all for this special opportunity. And I would like to say thank you to UNICEF for their invitation that I had the opportunity to address you here, in this place, on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. And it is a great privilege for me to tell you my vision. Before I start, I want to ask you a personal question. If you look at me now, you might want to ask yourself a few questions. Would you like to ask yourself what he's doing here before us? And you may have noticed something. And of course, I'm defined by different characteristics. I'm defined, for example, by being a blonde, I have blue eyes, but as you've already noticed, including that there are no limbs, upper and lower. It's one of those characteristics that defines me, including. But this is just one of these characteristics compared to other characteristics. So I would really like to use this time right now to talk about these characteristics, the characteristics that characterize people because we all define the valuable variety of these traits, the characteristics, for example, that distinguish us from each other, and some of us, on the other hand, unite. So when I was a kid, I didn't really realize that I was different from my peers. In fact, I felt like a normal child. And so am I. Well, I actually wanted to ride a police motorcycle. Yeah, well, of course, the fact that there are no upper and lower limbs, I understood that, and I understood that I was riding in a wheelchair. So when I was a kid, you know, it wasn't relevant to me, I just lived the life that a normal child lives. And the interesting thing is that everyone in my environment, around me, didn't know that there were these differences either. I had many children in my kindergarten, and they did not see these differences between me and the rest of the children. So kids, they don't see the difference, they don't see the disability. So that's what I've already realized is that there's a disability when it's no longer a child. So you're already conscious of disability, and that's what happens later. That is, adults are already teaching children these differences by means of education, behavior. So when I was a kid, it was my world that was destroyed at the same time. I mean, when I was eight years old, I was home, and I looked in the mirror -- and for the first time in my life, I realized, God, you're not as normal as everybody! So what I saw in the mirror, it wasn't really about that image, the image that I came up with. I made up this image: oh, look, I have no arms, no legs, but it's not relevant to me. But now I began to realize that it was relevant. Suddenly, my world collapsed with my own perception. But also because of the world around me, all of a sudden this world started telling me that you're crazy, you're a cripple, you have to be expelled because you have no arms, no legs. At the time, I was curious. I was wondering, so where did this differentiation come from, what happened. Maybe I'm different than having blue eyes or chicken white hair. I just wanted to live a normal life, not a disabled person. I wanted to live a normal life in our society. And it can only happen if I lived in a foster home, who always taught me, who always told me that the fact that you don't have limbs doesn't have to be the reason that you can't do anything. Instead, they inspired me to make the most of my life. They always taught me that you don't have limbs -- and that's not relevant. And I thank my parents very much for that. And thank you to the society that I grew up in, so a society that thought and acted that way to ensure inclusion. I'd like to use this special opportunity to tell you my own vision. Because my vision for our future, for our future society, is that I want to live in a world where the characteristics of a person who distinguishes one person from another do not lead to exclusion. I want to live in a world like this. So it doesn't matter where you come from, what you look like, whether you have a disability or not, I want to live in a world where everyone has the same possibilities. And I'm very pleased to talk to you about this talk right now in this place, and I'm very pleased to be in Ukraine in Kiev for a few days because of the UNICEF invitation. And I'm still going to meet with the rest of the activists because we have to keep going through this debate about inclusion. If we talk to you about inclusion, we are not talking about a social obligation. If we're talking about inclusion, we're talking about rights: the right to be here, the right to participate, and the right to make their own contribution to processes that are relevant to society and to all citizens. I dream of a society where we will understand with you what potential is in this queen, if we are to treat everyone equally, if we give every citizen a chance to make our contribution to our society in the most optimal and best way. And without my own parents, without inclusive thinking, I would never have been able to do anything to come to you right now and talk to you. And you, as parliamentarians, control these things. It is you who can set legislative standards and, for example, dream of such legislative standards that, for example, will bring Ukraine to a brilliant level of inclusiveness. I dream of a society where everyone will have the same chance. Yet, if we are talking to you about inclusion, we must also remember the commitments that all of us make. We need all our citizens in society to follow us, we need to have powerful people with a strong voice who will push this way forward, showing their own example of potential, of decision-making, of our vision. And so I would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the opportunity once again and for the commitments you have made to work closely with us, to work together, to work with UNICEF to create a better world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u66	People's deputies are invited to the floor by a Ukrainian activist who protects the rights of people with disabilities, Lena Dashwar. Please, Mrs. Lina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u67	Good day to you all! My name is Lena, and I am a public defender in the field of protecting the rights of children with disabilities and children who are in boarding schools. I, with your permission, am just a little bit concerned, I'm going to use a little bit of the hints I've made, and I'm going to start my speech. It's not every day I'm just in front of an audience like this. [[Applause]] You know, I'm always asked to tell my story, as I spent 19 years in a boarding school. They were all different, they were closed species, but all the time there were children with disabilities. And, you know, when I was growing up, the workers were always changing, the adults, and there was no person I could trust, or who knew exactly who I was. But I told this whole story exactly five years ago in this room. So today I want to talk about those who can't tell you here and not be heard. And you know, I want to start with two words: inclusiveness and deinstitutionalization. In our country, unfortunately, we didn't realize that inclusion and deinstitutionalization are two words and two concepts that go hand in hand. And if we start doing social services in our country, then we're going to have deinstitutionalization. Deinstitutionalization is a child's right to education, to social services, and the main thing is to be a family, it's stipulated in our national laws. And many people don't understand why internal reform is needed. Internal reform is needed in order for us in every community to create social services as an alternative to the internal system. I work at the Heart Watch G.I., and we created, and our team has created a really cool project called the School of Socialization of Teens with Complex Violations. What is it? It's when one child has two or more diagnosises, we've shown that it's possible to socialize a child in society. I'll tell you a story from our school. We had a boy named Ia, and he was very afraid to be in the group. We worked with him gradually for a year to integrate him into our collective. And you won't believe what our joy was when at the end of the year (in a year he didn't fit the team) he took both children in a circle for four seconds. It was our victory. And that was so cool. To this day, this boy is now fully with us in the group and even in the class. I also want to tell you that our team has a very cool password: there is no disability in childhood. In fact, every child is a child, it's a person and it's a universe. Every child teaches us and we learn from him, whether he has a disability or not. And I want to tell you about when I work at our teenage socialization school, I realize that everything we give to our teenagers is never going to be on the Internet. Believe me, there's a lot of kids in boarding schools, and there can be 10 workers per child. So usually, that kind of care and that kind of victory, even the four seconds when the kid comes up and we're happy, it's not going to be on the internet. I also want to tell you a story that happened last year. I got a call from a boarding school guy and he says, "Lin, in six days, I'm having my birthday, I'm dreaming of cakes, I'm dreaming of greetings, the way I saw it on TV." I didn't waste my time, I wrote, of course, on Facebook. And you can't believe this guy got hundreds of greetings, hundreds of calls this day. And then he was brought a cake and candles, of course, and for the first time in 31 years, he blew this candle on a cake and made a wish to have friends. [[Applause]] I've been approached every day by a number of, well, a lot of interns every day, and every day these graduates, or they're in or out of the internal system. We need to create services in the state -- an alternative to institutional care. Trust me, every mom, every dad wants to take a kid to a special school, but no boarding school, or to a public school without an intern. And you'll see how different your parents will be about social services. They will simply have a choice: either send a child to a special socialization center, or send a child 100 kilometers away to a boarding facility where her rights will be violated, simply because they have not made an alternative to a residential facility. And finally I want to say, I'm very proud that there are public organizations in our country that have proven that you can protect a child's rights, that you can protect a child's rights through services. But why is this happening? These services must be created by the State. That's why I call on you all, every one of you -- those who see me, those who hear me -- let's start creating services that are so badly needed by boys and girls and young people with disabilities and without. And you'll see how much our country will flourish. And then it's definitely going to be both the inclusion and the deinstitutionalization. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u68	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] Dear Mr. Janis, Mrs. Lena, we would like to thank you on behalf of our entire Supreme Council, from our Parliament, because you have indeed said very important things for all of us. Thank you. And happy birthday! Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Dear colleagues, I have three breaks with three speeches, but I have a proposal first, let's vote. There's this proposal: today, cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 and work without it until 12:30, then start the announcement of the MP's request and then do "Rizzne". Will there be any objections, colleagues? So once again, we just cancel the break from 12 to 12:30, we work in plenary mode until 12:30, then we go to questions, then we listen to "Variance." Do we agree? Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. [[11:22:27]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there are three breaks, as I said, with a replacement for the performance. First of all, I'd like to invite National Deputy Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the Presidium, the Ukrainians, today December 3rd around the world celebrate the Day of People with Disabilities. This day is a reminder to all of us of the obligation to show concern and mercy to the most vulnerable part of our society. But it's also important to give these people "not fish, but vodka" as they say in the people. Because it is very often that after adulthood, young people with limited abilities become undetected, apart from their parents, and it is very difficult for them to find work and integrate into society. I want to give you an example of the city of Equine, how we were able to help young boys and girls who have broken the workings of a motor vehicle, to realize and get a new specialty and official employment. Now on your screens, it's footage from this project called "Go and Do," how children with disabilities work in a central city hospital and bake bread. Along with the Raven City Employment Center, we initiated the "Go and Do" project. That's what it's all about. Six boys and girls with disabilities spent three months studying bakeries at the Plains Centre for Vocational and Technical Education. We had a hard time finding a place to work first after this training, but because the head of Eugene Kucheruk City Hospital went to meet us, today these boys and girls are working at a bakery in the city hospital of Raven. Literally yesterday, I'm sorry, December 1st was their first official business day, and they had their hands baked those buns, the bread that is now in the towers of the Supreme Council. I invite all my colleagues, all the national deputies, regardless of the political decoration, the faction, the names, to come and have a drink with this team, and maybe spread this cool project around. Many parents who raise people with special needs fall asleep in the morning and in the evening with only one thought: What happens when this child grows up, what happens when I'm gone? And our project, "Go and do" is primarily called on to give hope to parents, a signal that there is a mechanism, how children can work, socialize, get paid, and the main thing is to feel like full members of society and worthy Ukrainians worthy of their country's citizens. This is a unique case not only for our city but also for the whole country. I believe that we will be good examples for every corner of our country. My team, I personally, are ready to share the experience we have gained in this process. No big investment or money is needed, your desire and our efforts are needed. We have protocols, we have a scenario to do this. Please join us. Support us. Thank you all. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u70	Heroic glory! Another break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Juliana Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u71	Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues and Ukrainians! Yesterday, two draft laws, 6297 and 6298, were passed in violation of Ukrainian law. I think other competent authorities, including the Supreme Council's apparatus, should be able to reason on the extent of this violation. I'd like to listen to you because yesterday, all of you colleagues voted on these two draft laws. Whoever took the table or went to the committee website, who offered the table for second reading, saw its form and content. And most of all, what's not in this table is the text proposed by the committee for adoption in the hall. So there's the text of the first reading, there's the amendments of the people's deputies, there's the committee's opinion, that's the committee's proposal, but there's no final drafting of the bill's articles, which is proposed by the Main Committee for adoption in the second reading. So you, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, have no text to sign the bill adopted yesterday and to pass on to the President. Look, please, for a year and a half, I have argued with the competent authorities that there are such situations in some of the draft laws that after voting in the right-wing room, which corresponds to article 118 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are other words or whole sentences that are added when signing by the Head of the Supreme Council. And it's a gross violation, because it's a forgery of the law. In this case, yesterday, when we vote on draft Law 6297, we don't have this final editorial to vote for, and there are only two articles under draft Law 6298. That is, the column that is required to be represented in accordance with this article of the law, we did not vote on the text that is to be the law of Ukraine. So I obviously understand that you can't really sign the laws, because they're not accepted, you have to draw conclusions. And after that, depending on what conclusions will be made by the Supreme Council's apparatus, I think that all the national MPs here, apart from the opposition, to the power vested in us, we have to look together at the law enforcement authorities to get the text of the law that is to come out, corresponded to those positions that have been voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u72	There was another break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sukhka Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, welcome! I want to thank Lini Dashwar, who was speaking here, and the Ambassador of UNICEF, Janis McDavid, for updating the issues and tasks of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council. Today, Ukraine, like the rest of the world, celebrates the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. In our country, there are 2 million 703,000 people with disabilities. According to the State, nearly 164 thousand children are disabled. It is known that the level of development of society and state is determined by ensuring the rights of persons with disabilities, their degree of inclusion in social life, their ability to realize themselves. Today, the first lady’s initiative to create a barrierless society has brought us closer together. We, the Ukrainian national deputies, in turn, involve all the important things in order to ensure that the protection of people with disabilities is at the top of the agenda. Since the first days of Parliament's work, an interfractional union has been formed, "For the rights of children with special educational needs." In time, a professional TSC was registered, which included almost every political force in Parliament. One of the primary tasks of the commission of inquiry is to protect the rights of children with disabilities. We are able to visualize the problems that exist in places, and some of them have already been able to solve them together. Of course, this is just the beginning of the great path to creating decent living conditions, development, education, and rehabilitation for children with disabilities and the general public with disabilities throughout the country. At the parliamentary level, we have adopted a series of laws on social protection for persons with disabilities; empowering people with disabilities and persons with disabilities; and accompanying them to have an unhindered cross-section of the state border; enhancing social protection for persons with disabilities from childhood; raising people with disabilities affected by explosive objects; and increasing the size of state social assistance. It is important to understand that the State must support people with disabilities not only through social pay but also by creating conditions for self-implementation and socialization. This is what we see as the perspective on creating decent living conditions for people with disabilities. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a road map of our actions. We're for deinstitutionalization. At the parietal level, we share in the discussion. The crowd is the basis for the country’s international commitments. And to the end. It is important that children and people with disabilities be mentioned not only once a year on December 3, but also that they be united in their efforts to solve and create decent living conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we're going to continue to work. There's an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the order of the day first. An offer came before you. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u75	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council and to my colleagues from the vast majority to the next. Right now, we've seen the performances of people, children with disabilities. It's very important that this is happening on an international day when we're talking about this problem. And you know, it's catastrophic, as this week shows, when moms are invited into the hall and so are kids and everything else, we're missing the format that's regular -- parliamentary hearings. For the past year and a half, parliamentary hearings have not been held in the hall, motivated by the restrictions placed on COVID, at the same time the sessional sessions are now essentially transformed into such a mini-miner form of parliamentary hearings. Therefore, our faction demands that Parliament's leadership and majority not mix sessions and parliamentary hearings and return immediately to parliamentary hearings. We suggest that the first hearing be held on the very question of persons with disabilities. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u76	Thank you for this offer, it's already taken into account. And after we adopted the rules of admission to parliament, we have already decided to resume the parliamentary hearing. Please, Iron Man, that's what I understand. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. The proposal is consistent with all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, there is indeed a proposal to change the calendar for this session, 6381, it is in order of the day. Thank you for preparing. There is, I take it, an irresistible desire to support him, and to support him without discussion. So please, yes, put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u78	Your Honor, is there any objection that we should now accept Decree 6381 without discussion? Is there no objection? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I am now proposing to adopt a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 6381). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:35:27]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure a balanced budget income." I report that in accordance with article 48, part nine, this issue is dealt with by a reduced procedure and without being included in the agenda of the plenary. Dear colleagues, I invite the authors of these regulations to present their vision. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, author of the first decree, I understand, 5,600-P. Please. He's gone, isn't he? Let's move on. Okay, thanks. Next. I invite the author of the following decree, 5600-P1, Timoshenko, Julius Volodymyrna. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u79	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! By passing Bill 5600 for the first time in Stalin's time, you're taxing a one-man peasant who's going to pay attention! - 50 hundred and more than a hectare of 1,000, 500 dollars of tax. There has never been such a thing since the days of Stalin. For the first time in this bill, you're taxing a peasant who has grown agricultural production and sells -- pay attention! - 6 grand a month. You force him, tax him, draw almost 2,000 dollars out of what he sells — milk, meat, vegetables, or fruit. This is the first time. For the first time in this bill, you're taxing every Ukrainian because there's going to be an increase in agricultural prices. For the first time in this bill you make, it doesn't matter who sells a third of the land in a year, a tax. Property, no value, garage, box, tax. This bill is the first time you've divided the understanding of the rent into ore: the iron, the iron, the front, and the other, the marganic, down. This is the first time. For the first time, you give extraordinary powers to the tax control service, which under this bill will have the right without trial and investigation to charge, collect money, and then prove it. The "Paternity" team did not vote in favour of such a bill and asked for support for the annulment and approval of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u80	Thank you. The word is given to the author of the following decree 5600-P2 Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u81	Dear Ukrainians, you know, at first the majority called this bill anti-oligaric, but even those who don't read the bills out there realized that it had nothing to do with fighting oligarchs, and they called it resourceful. Because it's really a resource bill, and you're going to be farmers, representatives of small, medium-sized businesses, from which they're going to draw for everything. Do you know that the rent on ore remains in Ukraine after the vote for this bill -- and yet he wants to be the lowest in the world. So the oligarchs didn't just get hurt, they won. Just like the ecodata for all the harmful businesses there, whose owners are definitely not FOPs, the oligarchs are not raised by this law. But the pensioners, who had been restricted before yesterday, were without a tax on their land, will now pay really one and a half thousand dollars for their land, for not being able to live on a pension and cultivate the land. The authors of the law tell us that, you know, we have a shadow market of land that is processed from which taxes are not paid, there are three, five others who have acres of land, these pies. So if you'll excuse me, Mr. Zelensky, in your hands today and in most ways, all the authorities. It's your tax, it's your Ministry of Internal Affairs today, it's your police today. So do not collect these bribes, but collect taxes, but do not put people on the verge of survival. And this law will strike not only in the village but also in the city, because prices will rise. Today we've been listening here this week to Zelensky, who told us that prices in Ukraine are the lowest, all right. Yes, of course, in the envelopes, you know, these people don't feel the price increase today in Ukraine, and each of the Ukrainians, whether he lives in a village or he lives in a city, will become a hostage of Law 5,600. Therefore, we urge you to be honest with others.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u82	The word is given to the author of the following decree 5600-P3 – Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich. Please, Vladimir Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u83	Dear friends, I am no longer addressing this room, I am addressing Ukrainian citizens. You know, this train is flying, but there's no train ahead, there's a wall ahead. And what was done by Bill 5600. I'm not going to resort to procedural violations, they were, they were, they just stupidly shut their mouths so that you wouldn't hear what we're talking about in this bill, about its consequences. But now you'll hear. Because the oligarchs who told everyone they were going to have big taxes, rents on ore and so on, well, ore prices are going to be lower next year -- 240 million plus-minus for oligarchs. But small and medium-sized businesses will pay 20 billion extra for taxing damages in this bill. So it's not taxing the profits anymore, it's damage. Only 50 percent, which are passed on to the next period, are not taxed. So FOP, small business, he, who is still suffering the damage today due to the decline in business activity as a result of the pandemic, because the authorities are already closing down definitively today, he still has to pay the damage tax today. And fiscal authorities are given simply dragon powers. And believe me, every single one of you, except that he pays taxes, you know what it's gonna be like when the fiscals get the authority, he'll pay the corruption tax. And corruption is 5,600. So I urge everyone to think again and to repeal this bill so that people don't become dragons.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u84	The word is given to the author of another Order No. 5600-P4 – the national deputy of Ukraine Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u85	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, there is such an agricultural tool -- the rakes are called. And when you look at such bills as 5,600, you mention that there is, unfortunately, such a national sport, running around these robberies. And mention is made of the bad memory of Mr. Azarov’s inventions: unacceptable writing, uninterrupted assembly, and similar things, which unfortunately are brought back to life by such draft laws. Because the strengthening of tax rights does not solve the issue of raising funds, because Ukrainian citizens voted in favour of this authority, in favour of Parliament, set other tasks. They talked about the fact that taxes have to be fair for everyone to pay them, but they don't have to kill those who pay them. You know, in this, maybe the most philosophical problem of this bill and other things like that, is to use it to try to suppress it, but not to take the initiative. Colleagues said that there were problems with the implementation of the Rules, so both by content and by form, and by procedure, the bill should not become law. Dear colleagues, we suggest that we listen and vote down for this project, return to this issue, and adopt a law that will contribute to economic development, not the return of "Azair". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u86	The word is given to the author of the following Order 5600-P5 – Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u87	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, 119th constituency, Lviv, European Solidarity. My colleague said that this law had really been thought to be antioligaric before, and then called resourceful. And it sounds strange when laws were passed that directly played the oligarchs. I mean, it's also the debt write-off to the Cologne of Ukraine, it's the debt write-off of Firtasch by default -- in fact those laws that didn't really allow the state budget to be filled. And now with the bill 5,600, they're trying to turn their hands on small and medium-sized businesses. Hence, it was not necessary to adopt the very laws, in fact, that completely influenced the oligarchs. There was no need to underestimate the price of coal production. Today the minister told us that the price had already risen to three and a half thousand, and somehow he did not say what it was before. And when a miner obtained a ton of coal, he realized that the price for this production would not be enough for him to pay. And today the government is completely rebaptized by miners, not giving direction, for example, by not supporting bills that will allow them to close debt on wages to miners. Therefore, honourable colleagues, it was not necessary to vote for those truly oligarchic laws that you supported by the oligarchs of Cologne, Firthash. And this bill of 5600 we're proposing with our colleagues that we cancel. So support our decisions and do not give us the opportunity to sign this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u88	The word is given to National Deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, author of another Order 5600-P6. Please, Jan Vadimovna. None. Yeah, okay. Next. The word is given to the national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, author of another Order 5600-P7. Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I think you've all come to realize that you've really violated the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have duly violated the law without allowing the opposition to speak out on this matter, from this bill, to influence your decision, to reach out to you, and to change even in part these rules of law that you impose on Ukrainians today. Actually, I'd like to go to the Ukrainians right now, because what happens is that you're returning this law to "azair farm" in its worst manifestations, unfortunately. For example, by banning tax directors from going abroad, you are turning Ukraine into North Korea, where for every citizen the country is a concentration camp. In fact, you are making business directors of taxpayers, who are allowed to make requests not solely for a violation but for a suspicion of tax evasion. Colleagues, this has nothing to do with that country's fantastic dream that President Zelensky has just painted for us here in his letter. So, I don't understand, or you're not a political force that supports the President, or you're consciously just putting sticks in his wheels, he's not going to be able to build that country of dreams that was scattered here from this rostrum. So, colleagues, I'd like you to review your decision and actually approve at least one of our proposed rulings in order to ensure that this tax negligence that you're proposing with your novels is not distributed to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u90	The word is given to the author of the alternative decision, another 5,600-P8 – Pottery Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u91	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear citizens of Ukraine, see how our majority works. It's a classic story. There's a topic that goes on to say: we're fighting, we're fighting oligarchs, and we're going to adopt the whole Doligarization Act to take money out of them to make you feel good, respectable citizens. How does all of this end? I'll tell you who became the main oligarchs. So we have everyone who has this mobile phone, now an oligarch, because you're going to pay more because this law has raised the cost of using the frequency. You guys are all oligarchs. Other oligarchs have been found to be people who process areas. For example, they have a local area outside, they grow potatoes, and they sell potatoes on the market somewhere at a railway station. I can see that it must have been Igor Valeriyovich Kolomoysky who grew potatoes and carried them there. This was a blow to them when they were taxed. Well, that's not all. We were told, look, the main thing is iron ore. We're going to raise an iron ore rent because most of it is taken by Rinat Ahmtov, and we're going to hit it. My friends, we were finally added to the government budget by the iron ore -- 240 million -- but the marganic ore that is monopolized by Igor Valeriyovich Kolomoyski, and it's about twice as many numbers -- 500 or 600 million dollars, they've forgotten. Guys, you know, we just forgot. We remember one ore, and we don't remember another ore. This is called delligarchization, when the whole state apparatus is struggling with one particular businessman, Ahmetov, but he's not interested in any other businessman in this country. And in general, the state has to fight not the business nor the citizens, it has to fight Russia and stop cooperating with actual oligarchs, and it has to stop bullying the people who are taking it last because of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u92	The word is given to the author of another decree (registration number 5600-P9) – Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u93	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, through the adoption of the Anti-Oligarchic Law, you have completed the adoption of the anti - Selian law directly. Think about it, out of the 18 billion that you were supposed to raise in the budget, 12 billion you're offering to collect from people whose state doesn't pay a pension to which the state doesn't index a pension. You want to collect 12 billion taxes from people! And let me remind you, it's four million people who are called single farmers. And the state gave them the Law on Single Farms, they don't work under the Law on Farming Societies, and the state doesn't give them the opportunity to index pensions. You called this law "profitable," but this law to the detriment of, colleagues. The last time such a law was passed after the Great War, in the 1940s at Stalin, the peasants began to carve cattle. You will see a land of weeds. You won't see the revenue you want to put in the budget. Fellows, you've begun to hear no more association. The employers' Federation is talking about the total pressure of this law on business. The European Business Association against, the American Chamber of Commerce against, and they come to their conclusions. Colleagues, what are you doing, you are servants of the people? Four million people today will be under tax pressure and will now report to tax. But you better give them a pension, you better raise them a minimum of living, and you taxed the Ukrainian village today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u94	The word is given to the author of an alternative decision – Sofia Romanovna Fedini, this is about Regulation 5600-P10. Please, Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u95	In the days of Stalin, Communist executioners called themselves servants of the people, so it seems that history repeats itself. Because at the most difficult time for Ukrainian citizens, during the economic, coronary crisis, the authorities had no idea of anything better than to take and scrape completely into the thread of people. You call the bill 5600 resource. In fact, it seems that you are trying to get the resources in your own pocket and for your oligarchs that you are serving. Because in fact today you're depriving people of basic means of being. When a person cultivates something on earth in his own village and tries to sell it at the market, when the police follow it, chasing it, trying to take something away, it means that a person has no other means of being, and today he survives in the face of the state. The state will now tax the people who work on their land with taxes. The state raises taxes on real estate, on water, on forests, and on mobile communications. But if we look at it, the rich people are neither cold nor hot from these taxes, and the most atonement is for citizens who don't have money for basic survival. More importantly, you have now violated all the rules of basic morality and the Tax Code, which stipulates that such changes cannot be adopted less than six months before the beginning of the next fiscal year. But as I was saying a few days ago, both Zelenski and you, the authorities, care deeply about people, and you will be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u96	The word is given to the author of another blocking order. Sumar Victoria Petrovna, Order 5600-P11, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u97	I'm probably not going to take up a lot of time and repeat all the arguments that my colleagues said. But if you like to dance like that, 5600 is just a robbery dance. If someone thinks that this is going to lead to a budget increase, it's not really going to happen at the expense of the promised oligarch fights, which are very well-feeling and will actually pay for the rent-for-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-earth pits, it's going to be at the expense of the simple peasants that today would be worth supporting. Personally, I am appalled by the rise in the price of bread, the increase in the price of meat, the same chicken that was already claimed by the producers. They're being treated because that's what's leading to, in fact, the policy that's being pursued today by the active power, and 5600 is just increasing that position. You know, we're probably comfortable with the opposition when the authorities are dancing on robberies. But we are statesmen, and we realize that this is wrong. You have a chance to rewind this law, and that's probably worth doing, because it's not as successful as you want to see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u98	Please, National Deputy Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, author of Decree 5600-P12.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u99	Dear fellow citizens! You know, a few days ago, unfortunately, the opposition, the "European Solidarity" failed to discuss all the norms that have and are dangerous to the Ukrainian business. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to discuss each norm extensively, put you up to speed, because, let's be honest, not all the national MPs are familiar with those rights that were introduced to the second reading. And we haven't been able to perform our duties as national deputies, the "ministers of the people" haven't given us this opportunity. This law has further expanded the powers of taxpayers, tax collectors, and tax collectors. And so it's very sad that they're deceiving the Ukrainian business. And I would like the same thing, continuing my colleague's speech so that you can find common sense. And you're still going to have to go back to this bill, to this law and correct it if you don't want business in our country, in principle, to go completely underground. My colleagues have already noted the negative effects. Again, you don't hear Ukrainian entrepreneurs, Ukrainian businesses. One of the Presidents has already drawn so much that he is now in Rostov, so don't repeat his mistakes, because without respect for business, without respect for Ukrainian entrepreneurs, the state is going bankrupt. And Zelensky promised such attractive pictures of the future, and by his actions he is simply leading the country to ruin. Do not repeat the mistakes of those who are not now in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u100	Thank you. The word is given to the author of Regulation 5600-P13 of the Southern Nina Petrovni. No, no, give me two minutes first. Then Blue, then the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I would like first of all to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council once again that article 45 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had been violated during the consideration of the draft Law, which is why all of these differing decisions were made. But I am again addressing you, if you violate other articles of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council and sign those two previous laws that I have stressed, that will probably mean your criminal responsibility. So let's get back to our orders. So, I'm sure if we were to look at the procedure that was envisaged, and still, "European solidarity," and I was given a personal opportunity to explain a few of the norms, most of you in the room wouldn't support them. Now I ask your attention to understand what has been voted on. Let's start at the beginning. Does anyone know whether you are being informed by factions or are you being explained by the standards that Mr. Olenikov was fighting for again? These are changes to article 78-1 of the Tax Code. What is it today? If the taxpayer receives a written request from the tax authority and fails to provide information or provides incomplete information, the tax authority considers that this is the basis for an unscheduled documentary check. So imagine, in 2019, out-of-plan checks were carried out by 33,000 -- that's more than five times the planned ones, and in 2020 they were carried out by 24,000. I'll tell you about other standards when I present the following decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u102	The word is given to the author of the following Order 5600-P14 – the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Synth of Oleg Mihajlovich. Please, Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u103	Dear fellow national MPs! Bill 5600, like everything in today's government: a beautiful name, a resource bill -- and a rotten substance. Because if we're talking about having to increase our budget, first of all, we have to get this money from the taxation of the oligarchs, from the taxation of the gaming business, from the taxation of natural monopolies. And the authorities represent this bill as taxation of oligarchs and their activities, but in fact, if we do the calculations, we will see that the taxation of ore in the coming periods will not only increase but will be reduced in relation to the trends that are now in the world markets. I'm not even saying that the authorities are using this bill for political reasons: those who are criticizing it are getting more taxes, and their home oligarchs, those who are involved in the marginal ore, are avoiding taxation. But the worst part is that this bill is directed against our manufacturers -- against small businesses, against farmers -- because it's their responsibility that the authorities want to get more revenue. And it's so impressive that it's just people who are doing their own business today that they're going to be doing too much for that power in our country. Because there are not 500 thousand new jobs created that the Prime Minister has spoken of, there is no return of the employees that President Zelensky spoke of. Because in fact today's state of affairs in 10 months, we got 23 percent more income from our employees than we did in the last period. Did they start paying more money? No, that means that our people are being pushed out of the country by such bills. Therefore, I ask you to support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u104	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy, Nina Petrovni. Four of your next decisions, please take two minutes, four to eight minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, so I realized that we should be doing this kind of information work with you right now on the rights given to the tax authority. Because to the resources, to the increase, to the rate index, you've already heard from all of the speakers. And once again, in 2020, almost 24,000 out-of-plan checks were carried out, more than 12 times as planned, and this is a moratorium. That is, you all feel that a moratorium is now in place to test farm subjects in connection with the pandemic, but there is no moratorium. So you can imagine that right now, if the taxpayer has a reason to appeal to the taxpayer, you gave her the right to appeal in any case, if she can think of possible infringements by the subject. This means that now taxpayers have to work all the time on taxes, giving them copies of documents and explanations. And you've restricted the right of the payer to defend himself as to the groundlessness of such a request on the part of the taxpayer. This is what everyone is paying attention to, from small to large businesses. You've made incredible conditions for pressure on business, and that's all going to be in these questions that you don't seem to have the right to apply to the tax authority, and he's going to do it. Please tell me, did you think that we now have primary financial monitoring subjects, a large number of operators -- all of them, starting with notary, lawyer, auditor, accountant, end of financial companies -- are the subjects of primary financial monitoring? So one of the rules you said was that if such a subject had performed a incomplete examination or had not, to some extent, checked everything that was required by law, failed to carry out the check to the end, such a person would also be included in an out - of - schedule examination and would be taxed to check it out. What's with the tax office and the funding? To what are the functions of the primary financial monitoring subject involved in its economic activities? But you do, unfortunately, accept that. When you talk about limiting the capacity of individuals who are directors of enterprises, and we've already worked this out very well, that it's businesses-borrowers that are headed by "pounds" or that are actually companies that provide certain illegal services, these directors will be released the next day after such an operation. And the directors of large businesses, foreign investment operators, who do not actually have negotiable assets during the pandemic, will be limited in their right to leave. And these are basically directors of our state enterprises, unfortunately, of those who work, the vast majority of them have a huge debt to the budget. You can't change that kind of manager because you can't find a person. Unless, excuse me, you can put a gun in the head of such a state-owned enterprise. Now, a very important point is that there is a 50 - percent limit for large taxpayers to transfer damages in the past years. You saw yesterday in the draft law, already in the State Budget Act of 2022, that there is an increase in income tax revenue as a result of this rule of 5,600, 21 billion dollars. 21 billion dollars you want to take from the losses of big businesses, which are exactly our main investors in the country that are doing exactly what they are doing, because they still have some opportunity and financial stability. So that's the financial stability you're taking from them. I don't know why you don't communicate with representatives of different associations. It seems to me to ignore the scream that we hear from them, that don't do that, because it was in the 14th year, starting with, I think, 16th year, that the practice of not taking into account the damage was stopped. This is because of the insistence of international investors who do not understand why the financial result does not take into account the damage that they have suffered during their activities. All the explanations in this room have nothing to do with the real situation, especially at this time. I've given you an example that by 2021 large enterprises had declared a likely loss -- these surveys were conducted by the Ukrainian Employers' Federation, 140-200 billion dollars. And you tell them that they have to pay extra in the budget without helping them with any program, no real actions of the state, and as a result, we lose our shelves in European countries, and as a result, we have milk production from Poland on our trailers, because we are uncompetitive with the producers of neighbouring countries. Instead of talking to you right now about the utility of programs for the support of businesses, the problem with energy has gone nowhere. All of our manufacturing companies, all of our manufacturers, are buying gas at market price. It's not possible for operational activities, the marginality of our businesses was less than 10 percent, and at the price of gas they're all getting losses. It seems that our country is completely unappreciative of the global economic situation, not to mention without appreciating the situation of its neighbours. Why do you not think that our large number of subjects are being reregistered and transferred to other countries? In Poland, I know some of our big supermarkets have already registered as taxpayer in Poland. This means that it's not that we're reducing the competitive capacity of our businesses, it's just that we're not allowed to stay in Ukraine at all. We don't allow new ones to come, because when we look at the figures on the State budget for 2022, there's no such thing as an adequate approach or at least one to demonstrate that, here, the state has decided to take care of you at all. So, of course, in any case, we have to move on to how to detiny the economy, and that's what we would be looking after with you right now. And 5,600, I'm sure it should turn into exactly the new system that you're proposing in order to be able to work legally and thus fill the budget. Expansion of the tax base is our goal, not an increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u106	Thank you. You did 5600-P15, P16, P17, P18. 5600-P19--Herasim, but it's not there. Two more orders: 5600-P20, P21, P22. Nina Petrovna is six minutes. And then there's Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we're going to go to the vote, I guess. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u107	The next thing I'd like to do, however, is stop the block -- this is actually about childishizing the economy. You yourself admitted that you failed to fight against the shadow sector of the economy by means of sub-citizen goods. I know that there are a lot of questions on the committee for tax services and customs about the market for the sale of illicit tobacco products, for example, products. You know you lost this fight. Why are you changing the system so that this market is even more in the shadows? It is not clear that a weak system of administration, but more faithfully, that some law enforcement agencies directly lobby or overlap certain spheres, is the cause of all problems. You're talking about your political will. You have the leaders of your law enforcement agencies who claim their goals, goals, abilities, and so forth. But let's show it, and we have the opportunity, if we talk about the shadow sector of the economy by sub-occupational goods, it's now over 60 percent. Count how many extra revenue these are. That's tens of billions of dollars. When we talk about basic things, the wages are still in the shadows. Why do you not raise questions because of, for example, tax deductions, expand them, and make sure that the employees themselves are always required by the employer of the official salary? This is the tool that all civilized countries use. Why is he not an instrument for us? Why don't we care? You're saying that we have a problem with the pension system. I look at the pension deficit for the 22nd year, and I'm very surprised that 200 billion dollars didn't scare you, that you're just talking about the second level of pension reform. Of course, I support it. But this second level will never work if we have so many workers in the shadows. They don't pay anything in the solidarity system, so of course they won't pay voluntary contributions to pension funds. So it's obvious that in this direction you should be moving. And to do that, you have to understand, don't give preference to how you're going in particular areas, and this has to apply to all the citizens who are in the shadows and who are working illegally. So it's about taxing the income of the natural person that you didn't do anything. And unfortunately, further actions related to pension reform will also be doomed to failure because a huge number of people, from 5 million to more, are in the shadows, that is, getting paid illegally. And we didn't do anything about it in this bill. So obviously, what I'm talking about is what a new project should be about changing the Tax Code, well, you don't have to, you don't have to, it's no longer interesting, because by increasing taxes you see a quick and convenient way of getting extra money. But you know, I don't want to get to the comparisons: the more you make the juices out of a person you can't feed, the more you don't give back. You know about this problem with two million entrepreneurs. I think our days of work in parliament are coming to an end this year. Do you think that the decision you made is right and that the requirement for the mandatory use of cashiers will bring you some positive things? Well, it's quite obvious that the practice that you've made before proves everything exactly the other way around. A purely intelligent approach can lead to the fact that the vast majority of taxpayers will prefer to pay taxes. And here yesterday, for example, there were a lot of questions from people who say, "You're saying it all right, but how are we going to pay taxes when they're spent on the budget, as it was written, a chess player?" And that's true, because yesterday's legislation, nobody understands their meaning. From where they came in five days, 48 billion dollars, no one understood the income. Where were they painted in the air in five days? And on the spending side, I'm sure no one's taken care of at all, because one of the draft laws added funding to all the law enforcement authorities by the end of this year. No one has reported this, and for some reason, the head of Parliament today is acting so that when the draft law is presented for second reading, he does not allow the rapporteur to inform us, the national deputies, but what changes are made between the first and the second readings. So we have a situation where you vote for the incomprehensible standards. I think after my little talk, you'll be able to talk to your entrepreneurs by coming to your seats. I'm sure the Mayors should be supporting our decisions right now. I urge you to support business, not our decisions, but to pay attention once again to the wrong decisions you make.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u108	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, author of Decree 5600-P23. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u109	In fact, colleagues, we understand, I think all the authors of the decrees understand that the decision of the Supreme Council on adoption in the second reading and the whole bill of 5,600 will not be overturned. We understand that. Because unfortunately, Bill 5600 is an ideological law. This is a law that reflects the ideologies of active power right in the conduct of total fiscalization, right in the context of the oppression of natural persons entrepreneurs, just in the introduction of additional taxes on the most vulnerable and, above all, on peasants and singles. That is what the ideology of today’s power is in this Parliament and beyond. This is what Bill 5600 was directed to, and that is why it will not be repealed. It's an ideology, it's an important fundamental question. It's not a game business situation where we were promised tens of billions of dollars in the budget, then reduced all the taxes -- and then everything works fine, and there's no crazy money in the budget. But the one-man peasants will press, the small business will push, the FOPs will push through by increasing the tax authority, and these costs, unlike the cost of the gaming business, will be charged to the budget. But once again, I want to say that with such an ideology, unfortunately, we will not build a normal, prosperous country. Colleagues, change the ideology of your power, return face to face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u110	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, we can move on to making decisions, right? We've discussed this project enough. I'm going to put to the vote the projects that there are. I asked if there was a need for discussion. None. Because we still have some very important bills ahead of us, dear colleagues, let's move on. Thank you. Project 5600-P is a draft repeal of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the amendment of the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts on the sustainability of budgetary revenues (5600-P). Please vote. [[12:24:16]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next draft Decree (5600-P1) repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and Certain Legislative Acts on Balance of Budget Income (5600-P1). Please vote. [[12:24:47]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next draft of Decree (5600-P2) is also the repeal of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure a balanced budget income." Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:25:19]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next draft Decree (5600-P3) repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the amendment of the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the sustainability of budgetary revenues (5600-P3). Please vote. [[12:25:50]] For-80 The decision is not taken. The next one is 5600-P4 with the same name. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:26:13]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next project is 5600-P5 with the same name. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:26:38]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The next 5600-P6 with a similar name is the annulment of the Supreme Council decision of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure a balanced budget income." Please vote. [[12:27:10]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The next Action Project is 5600-P7 with the same name. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:27:32]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next project Order 5600-P8 with the same name. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[12:27:54]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next draft of Decree (5600-P9) repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts on ensuring balanced budgetary revenues. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:28:23]] For-84 Dear colleagues, I will continue for 15 minutes because we have many more important bills to adopt. Next, 5600-P10, on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the sustainability of budgetary revenues. Please vote. [[12:28:58]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next project is 5600-P11 with the same name. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:29:19]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The next one is 5600-P12 with the same name. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:29:41]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The next 5600-P13 is a bill repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30 November 2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the sustainability of budgetary revenues. Please vote. [[12:30:11]] For-84 Dear colleagues, 12:30. We have two choices: either we go to questions or we vote on issues that relate to citizenship and everything. [[B in m in s a l in]] Friends, look, you understand why this is happening, because if you don't agree, it's going to be a reason to admit it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come to Irina Volodymyrna. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questioning. There's no compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear fellows! So during the plenary week, 102 MPs were asked, of them: to the President of Ukraine - 9, to the Supreme Council - 6, to the Cabinet of Ministers - 49, to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government - 35, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership - 3. Since last plenary week, nine parliamentary requests have remained unannounced to the President of Ukraine. A total of 111 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. So, dear colleagues, I ask everyone to prepare for the consideration of the parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. I would also like to emphasize that we do not have a situation like the classics say: It tells and shows. You know, I'm going to announce, and I'm going to ask that no one responds to anything, not with their fingers, not with anything else. And remember, you represent the institution of Ukraine. Thus, there is an open-ended vote in support of Irina Herashchenko’s request to the President of Ukraine for the intervention of President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine in the electoral process in Ukraine and the need for Ukraine’s continued compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski in carrying out its duties. Please vote. [[12:32:57]] For-68 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national MPs (Kingdom, Solod and others) to the President of Ukraine for the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that have renewed citizens' rights in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[12:33:30]] For-80 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Vejacheslav Rublov's request to the President of Ukraine to prevent the closure of Ukraine's stationery offices in the Volinsk region. Please vote. [[12:34:02]] For 242 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:34:28]] For 272 Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Roman Costenck's request to the President of Ukraine to provide State protection to the state's operatives of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense's Directorate of Intelligence, who conducted investigative measures to document the involvement of Russian military and mercenaries in the war against Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:08]] For 236 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please. [[12:35:31]] For 239. Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kachury, Kucherenka, Grivka) to the President of Ukraine for a reduction in the price of gas for the population. Please vote. [[12:36:03]] For 201 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please. [[12:36:28]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Attention, fellow officers! It is an open-ended vote to support Alexander Kachura's request to the President of Ukraine to initiate the creation of a working group to improve the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rules to prevent the spending of taxpayers' and parliamentary working hours on a meaningless political hap through the announcement of parliamentary requests submitted by Ukraine's individual national deputies. Please vote. [[12:37:22]] For-94 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request of the National Deputies Group (Geraschenko, Ionova, Kostenko) to the President of Ukraine for the provision of State protection to the expatriates of the Directorate General of Intelligence of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, who were directly involved in the operation of the detention of mercenaries of the private military company "Vagner". Please vote, Your Honor. [[12:38:02]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Savchuk, Bakunza, and others). A total of 19 deputies to the President of Ukraine on the need to deploy Meta Platforms (Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp) and Google (YouTube) in Ukraine to protect Ukraine's national security. Please vote. [[12:38:44]] For 226 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:39:10]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please pay attention! This is the first time we have been asked by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide information on the legal status of Ukraine's law on the amendment of the National Police Act (for the deployment of police to public authorities, enterprises, institutions, organizations, higher education with specific conditions of education and the assignment of special names to the police).” Please vote. [[12:40:10]] For 275 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:40:33]] For 276 Decision taken. Welcome to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is an open-ended vote in support of Mary Ionova and Rostislav Pavlenko's request to the President of Ukraine to provide information on the characteristics of the legal status of out-of-office employees (advisors) of the patronage service of the President of Ukraine and the heads of the Office of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:41:11]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by Tetjana Skripka's request to the President of Ukraine to assign the name Hero of Ukraine (after-death) to the deceased commander of 128 separate mountain and storm brigade Eugene Korostelov. Please vote. [[12:41:45]] For 288 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:42:08]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, support Alexia Hotcharenko's request to the President of Ukraine to grant acceptance as a gift from the Ukrainian national deputy, Honcharenko O.O. A synthesiser to support stage skills and prepare a second edition of the popular show "Brothers Citzko-No Panty Game" because of the collapse of the confidence of Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, maybe we should think about institutions when we talk about such questions. My business is to read it, your business is to vote it. Please vote. [[12:43:08]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Solomon Bobrowski's request to the President of Ukraine for documents required by the Office of the President of Ukraine for the submission of Demchenk R.M. the status of a participant in combat. Please vote. [[12:43:44]] For-174 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:44:07]] For 201 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote supporting the request by Yuri Kamelchuk to the President of Ukraine for the inclusion in the Ukrainian President's program of the "Great Building" of the David's Town Hall of the Watchtower City Council in order to provide adequate conditions for students to be taught today in the adapted emergency facilities. Please vote. [[12:44:55]] For 206 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:45:17]] For 224 The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. It is an open-ended vote to support the request by Artem Dmitruk to the President of Ukraine for the provision of the premises of the Municipal Centre for HlV-infected Children and Youth, which will meet the health-epidemic conditions. Vote, Your Honor. [[12:46:01]] For 204 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to decide to refer a previous parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:46:24]] For 215 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kitzaka, Kuzmin, and others). A total of 17 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the "Berdichov International Sports Profile". Vote. [[12:46:57]] For 261 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to decide to refer a previous parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:47:22]] For 265 Decision taken. There is an open-ended vote in support of Geo Leros's request to the President of Ukraine to provide Vladimir Greene with diapers in case of a new protest. Please vote. [[12:47:50]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. It is an open-ended vote to support Geo Leros' request to the President of Ukraine for the well-deserved relocation of Vladimir Zelensky to the exodus of Yanukovic's "Megigrier", to the more dignified living conditions of a powerful leader, including the golden toilet. Dear colleagues, I, frankly, have no right not to read. Would you like my colleagues to read this? Please vote. [[12:48:36]] For two. The decision is not taken. These are all parliamentary requests for the President of Ukraine. Next, ask the national deputies to other authorities and institutions. Julius Klimenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions). Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the granting of an official position on the leadership of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Golos" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and removal of violations of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of the Rules, MP's ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider cases of violations of the requirements of parliamentary ethics and public moral requirements by the head of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Serve of the People" by David Aramamy and the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Serve of the People" Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich and Kowalčuk Alexander Volodymirovich. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Frez, Ionova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine on providing information on the state of implementation of the projects presented at the "Universal Forum "Ukraine 30" in 2021. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Frez, Ionova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, on providing information on the state of implementation of projects within the framework of the Grand Building programme. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Frez, Ionova) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Director of the State Service Enterprise. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Frez, Ionova) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, who is responsible for the Director of the State Air Traffic Services Company of Ukraine for providing information on the state of implementation of individual infrastructure projects in the Odessa region. Group of People's Deputies (Gerashchenko, Friz and others) to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on granting a legal assessment of discrimination by President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine on 26 November 2021's 30 questions to the President of Ukraine and the head of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Servant of the People" of David Arahamaia on 27 September 2021 on the air of the programme "Time Golovanova" on the TV channel "Ukraine 24". Jani Zinkevich to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the calculation of salaries for military medical personnel. Igora Krivosheev to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine about the damage to the strategic pipeline "Samara - Western Direction", which has caused a dangerous environmental situation in the Zacarpathian region. Alexander Bakumov to the temporarily acting head of the Kharkiv District Administration, head of the Kharkiv District Council on the financial and material security of the municipal institution "Harkovi Music College of Music called B.M. The Kharkiv District Council. Sergey Sternichuka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the site of the authorization. Maxim Dirdin to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appointment of Barabbas M.O. to serve as Deputy Head of the State Inspectorate of Architecture and Construction of Ukraine. Andrija Boblach to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District Attorney's Office, Head of the Poltava District Council, Head of the Poltava District Public Administration for the Cessation of the Political Assistance Department of the Municipal Company "The District Centre for Prevention and Combating HIV/AIDS" of the Poltava District Council. Groups of National Deputies (Zabrodski, Gerasimov and others) A total of 23 deputies) to the head of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible illegal actions by representatives of the State authorities and other persons who may have contributed to the violation of the State sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine and threaten the national security of Ukraine to answer individual questions about the activities of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of possible illegal actions by representatives of the State authorities and others who may have contributed to the violation of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine and to the threat of national security of Ukraine. Maxima Berezin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to create an Aviation Academy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Maxima Berezin to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the establishment of the Hadjac City Central Hospital at the KNP site of the Gaddaecki City Council of the Hospital Hospital Network to provide medical care to the population of the town of Hadjac Mirgorodski district and adjacent areas of the Poltavian region. Maxim Berezin to the head of the Poltava District State Administration for the conservation and further operation of the regional landscape park "Gadzatski" in the town of Gaddach in the region of Poltava. Alexander Danuci to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the proposal of a legislative requirement for a replacement on a summer bus for winter at the appropriate time of the year. Rostislava Pavlenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the number of children whose birth is registered in accordance with article 126 of the Ukrainian Family Code. Groups of National Deputies (Jurchin, Jurash and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the transfer of Santa Claus to the Roman Catholic community for permanent use. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the submission by the Ukrainian Security Service of documents necessary for the delivery of Demchenk R.M. the status of a participant in combat. Michael Bondar to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Bill No.5655. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the facade of the People’s House in the village of Kupce. Alexander Guerrega to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the payment of up to 300 percent of the salary paid to medical workers (with increases) taking into account statutory mandatory payments, allowances. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the assignment of gas distribution networks to the Kharkiv Region to Ukraine's Single Gas Transport System and the non-admission of an extraordinary natural gas supply situation. Jury Kamelchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the Presidential programme "Great Building" in the building of the David's Town Hall of the Watchtower Council of the Chernovets region in order to ensure the proper teaching conditions for students who are now studying in the adapted emergency facilities. Irina Konstankevich to the head of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of cases and causes of violations of the rights of the child during the decentralization of child protection powers, the reform of the institutional care and upbringing system, the realization of the right of the child to family education and adoption, the development (modernization) of social services regarding the provision of subsidies for the provision of State support to persons with special educational needs. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the increase in the quota of international freight transport permits. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for receiving subsidies to provide State support to persons with special educational needs. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State support for the industrial sector and the activation of investment activities. Alexander Hajdu to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on specific issues of the promotion of competitions for the replacement of higher education institutions. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney General on the examination of the facts of the improper conduct of the investigation. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, on the need for construction of transport infrastructure. Groups of People's Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Private Shareholders' Association of Kyivvodokal Shareholders on the use of measures to eliminate an emergency. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to cancel the Order of the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine of 22 November 2018 No. 315 "On the Approval of the Distribution Methodology among Consumers of the Volumes consumed in the Municipal Services Building". Igor Guza to Prime Minister of Ukraine for a critical situation regarding the current debt of coal-carbon enterprises in the Volin region, for the electricity used by the DP "Regional Electricity Networks". Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to review the government’s programme for providing ball joints to citizens for their effectiveness. Alexander Kachura to the Head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the verification of the presence of David Georgiyyovich and Rudik Kira of the citizenship (subordination) of another State in Ukraine. Alexander Kachura to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Reintegration of the Interimly Occupied Areas for the Development of a 1,000-dollar payment order for vaccinated citizens living in temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the National Road Agency of Ukraine, Chief of Roads in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the National Police of Ukraine for information on measures to preserve the rehabilitated roadways of Zaporozhye. Alexander Kunicko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need for a proper response to restrictions on the right of citizens to receive administrative services in the government. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the possible improper investigation of the illegal prosecution of counsel O. Beglarian. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Communication on the further work of the Council Channel. Mr. Lubinz to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, for causing serious bodily harm during the meeting of the fourteenth regular session of the Selidian City Council VIII, to convene a deputy from the Party "For the Future" to Arthur Sukov and deputy members from the Party "Serve of the People" Muhammad Tetjani. Artema Dmitruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of the premises of the Communicipal Institution, the Regional Centre for HIV-infected Children and Youth, which will meet the sanitary and epidemic conditions. Artema Dmitruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to help solve the problem of adjusting accounts for natural gas supply services. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the inclusion of projects after the completion of the construction of the Davidic High School and the construction of the food cloud in the Starojadavi List before the list of those that can be implemented in 2022 under the Presidential Programme of the Ukraine "Great Building". Nikolai of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Czernovetsk District State Administration for the allocation of state budget funds for the construction of a pedestrian crossing through the Siret River in the village of the town-type Beregomet of the Visnik district of the Czernovetsec region. Yes, dear colleagues, that's all we've got to read. But we don't have that many MPs left, and I think we'll be able to reread them in the next sessional week so that they'll be properly implemented. And now we're going over our final question for today, that's "Crazy." Please sign up for the performance. Dear colleagues, please register. Please give the word to Lord Neclaud, the political party "Serve of the People." Please. Yes, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u112	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, a member of the European Solidarity faction, Alexi Honcharenko, invited me to sing a song in French. Such an unexpected offer is enough because they sing songs that do not match the interests of the Ukrainian people. And I thought, what should we sing a song about? Maybe sing a song about chocolate, about the activity of Roschen Corporation in the aggressor country when there's a war, when the money that Roschen pays as taxes goes into the aggressor state's budget. Maybe sing a song about another corporation called Gazprom, which has a strangely direct bearing on the activities of this deputy who gave him, as he testified that 700,000 dollars he received from Gazprom and declared them. Maybe sing a song about this kind of hero of the popular "Trufaldino of Bergamo," like, you know, a servant of two masters who didn't know who to serve and serve two masters to get paid there and another landlord. Something reminds me of his activity, his inciting the service of the two masters: at first he shouted and supported the Party of Regions and its direction in friendly relations with Russia, now he's yelling that he's in a different format. I think that the instigations that are echoing on his part are in no way consistent with the slogans that are necessary that can really inspire and sustain. They're aimed at fuelling animosity in society, and so I think all of this dirt that's flowing, it can't find any evidence in people, it's tearing society apart. And I mean, Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u113	The word is given to the national deputy of Mazurash because they exchanged places with the Melnik. Please, Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u114	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203rd District, Cherniewec Region. To begin with, I will contact the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. I'm twice inoculated, of course, that all fellow citizens should be vaccinated, because the medical community assures us that this will help us if COVID gets sick, that it's easier to endure it, that we're going through this test. But I turned to him and received a letter from the minister of health. Please make sure that our actions have a certain logic, not a certain one, but an absolute logic. Because if vaccination doesn't allow us to avoid infection and transmission of this cadaveral infection, there's no point in restricting citizens and preventing them from working or allowing them to receive basic services (transports and so on) because of the absence of a certificate of vaccination, so it has to be logical. The other one. This week we once again had a lot of manipulations from this rostrum. This is usually the sin of one faction with a manipulative name even. The manipulations, the lies and even the inadequacy of their mouths here sound from this rostrum. And, no, there are normal people in that faction, who are happy to communicate and cooperate even in the legislative field, as they say. But there are a few, sorry for the inadequacy, of the political shvoks led by the grey-headed x eetman, that is, that has brought so much bad to our country, that instead of just doing the legal work for which they've been chosen, unfortunately, deceived by the electorate, but they all have the right to their choice, they go out and constantly manipulate, they lie from this rostrum. And that's very bad. Now they're not in the hall, but they were manipulating that there's no "ministers of the people" in the hall, and they're not in the hall. But I say, let them pass it on, or I say to the grey-headed x ethman, that it's him, we remember the citizens, that he was creating a party of regions that are now banned in Ukraine. He was the one who worked there with other SDPU(s) and so on. It was he who destroyed the Orange Revolution after the 2004-2005 revolution. It was from that bulldozer that he deceived the people and made his way to the presidential office and continued to function as before in the crackdown and destruction of our country. But we won't let him do it. We, the President's team, will lead the country to peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u115	The word is given to Froll, to Paul Froll, to the Servant of the People. Please, Paul Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u116	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I want to draw your attention to the fact that today's parliamentary day was actually thrown into the trash, because today we were considering 24 orders to cancel the decision taken by the Supreme Council. Such a practice is not available in any civilized parliament of the world to register decisions that have been taken by the Supreme Council. In contrast, today we've heard 24 sessions of oligarchic television, which has moved from a talk show on the evening channels that belong to the oligarchs, has already moved into the Hall of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council. We've been hearing for over an hour about how the MEPs of one Eurosolidarity faction competed in front of each other for how much better they're criticizing the law that gives 20 to 25 billion dollars to the budget, which increases the rent for the nadral mining that belongs to the Ukrainian people. This money will go to the education of Ukrainian children. So, honourable people's deputies, I urge everyone to stop obstructing Parliament. Let's work, let's use parliamentary time effectively. Today we did not accept the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Bundestag of Germany to the recognition of the Holocaust of the Ukrainian people in 32-33 years by genocide of the Ukrainian people. We didn't accept it, we didn't accept it after this corrective and decisive spam, we didn't have time to vote an important law on simplifying the granting of protection to foreigners who were protecting Ukraine, giving Ukrainian citizenship to those people who were armed to protect the Ukrainian people, so that the deputies would be here in Kiev in peace. Therefore, I urge you to change the Rules and to clean up these things that are not in any parliament of the world in a civilized parliament. Please, Your Honor, let's protect your rights, your rights to constructive work, your rights to discussion, but not only have you blocked the rostrum today for over an hour with these orders nonsense. Order to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council. There are constitutional measures: an appeal to the Constitutional Court, the President's veto, a bill to annul the decision. Please use the constitutional tools and do not destroy the Ukrainian rights of the deputies they have chosen to work. Just let us work, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u117	Nina Petrovna Jujanina, 1 minute, right of reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u118	Sadly, the national deputy may not have listened at all to the rulings presented. Regrettably, the national MP who takes part in the legislative work there does not fully know the main law of Ukraine under which the Supreme Council works – the Supreme Council Rules, and that is why he makes such statements. All Ukrainians have found that, by completely violating the procedure for the adoption of the draft Law, 5600 has resulted in the same number of decrees, since they have not allowed any of the opposition forces to submit amendments to confirm them, explaining their content. Of course, if the procedure were followed, there would be more possibility for the deputies to make a decision and perhaps not support part of the amendment or not support the law as a whole. So we took advantage of our right. And I ask all Ukrainians to draw conclusions. And make conclusions, give an assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u119	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Sheepskin Yulia Yuriyovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u120	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, I'd like to speak on this subject today, the topic of protecting the rights of internally displaced persons, and in particular the institutions of higher education. I'd like to start with a personal history, because I'm addressing both as an internally displaced person and as a person who worked and continued to be a lecturer, a professor at the University of Donetsk. This is the first higher education facility, the Donetsk National University of Vasil Stus. I'm not just raising this question because I'm tired of correspondence with the Ministry of Education and Science, because we have to raise the issue of conservation strategy, I'm not talking about development right now, I'm talking about preserving higher education institutions. Because in 2014, when the war and the workers began, as an example of Donetsk National University, took out flags from our country, flags from the university to enable our students, our Ukrainian citizens, to learn in a safe environment and to continue to develop new science and education. We've got over 17 institutions of advanced education. But by that week, a second higher education facility had been reorganized, the Luhana National Agrarian University, which this year marked a century of existence. It was the only agrarian educational facility in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. I've had communications with various international organizations that have invested a lot of money in the development of higher education institutions in order to build up infrastructure so that they can start a new place from scratch. But the question remains that students are actually now learning from the pandemic in remote form, they can't actually defend their rights. Other questions are social. Will all coworkers who have reorganized and moved to another higher education facility save their jobs? The question remains open. I had communication with the prime minister, who promised that we would get together. I would like to return from the rostrum so that such a meeting will take place as soon as possible. In addition to the fact that we have sent more than three appeals to the Ministry of Education and Science, we have appealed to the Deputy Prime Minister and, of course, the Minister for Reintegration. I truly believe that Irina Andriyevna will unite us in this regard too. Fellow Members of Parliament, let us unite and make decisions. Because these are the educational institutions that teach, which began with what they wrote on a sheet of Latin to the students, they sat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u121	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy to Volin Mikhail Yakovic, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u122	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Ukrainians, we're seeing as December 1st winter enters its rights. We can see that a winter storm is being created on the street as well as on the street. But are the Ukrainians sure that we will go through the fall-winter period peacefully? Will there be a blowout, or will we be warm? In that case, if these bolts were to be shut down, would they not be frozen by the Ukrainians, and would they not be sick? And what can be done, or is it done to avoid cataclysms during this period? Let's sort it out in order. To date, there should be 921 thousand tons of untouched, untouchable supplies at the thermal power plant warehouses. But there's actually 409,000 y's two and a half times less than untouched stocks. An active selection of expensive imported natural gas and its own production began. Compared to November 1, the savings in shelters are less than 1.5 billion cubic feet [1.5 billion cubic meters]. We see that the situation is developing very negatively. We tried to fix this situation and a month and a half ago we initiated as members of the Energy Committee to prepare and listen to a committee of central authorities, all players working in the market, in the energy market in Ukraine. But it was the head of the Energy Committee, Andrew Herus, who brought Russian electricity to Ukraine's market back in the 19th year, which led to the halt of the Ukrainian mines and then their further bankruptcy, which bankrupted the heat generation in Ukraine, that Andrew Herus blocked the committee meeting with such an order of day. At the end of the session, three weeks ago, he blew it up. This week, a few days ago, the session ended, but Andrew Herus turned it into a round table where important representatives of the energy market just talked and no proposals were made. In addition, all the bills that I've worked with a group of national deputies from different factions are blocked and blocked by the monarchy. Next. Today, debt on wages in mining teams of government mines amounts to 2 billion 270 million dollars. By the end of the year, the debt will be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u123	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u124	Congratulations! Recently, Ukrainians have been able to pay fines and executions by means of the Act plugin, thanks to our team. Sadly, this process did not become a problem. The fines that come to Ukrainian citizens are not always reflected in this appendix. This is not the fault of Minziphres, but it is, rather, the guilt of Minjust. In addition, in the case of non-refoulement of these fines, people are subjected to executive conduct, people are blocked by cards, people are blocked by property, and people are arrested. In the best case scenario, these are made up of government contractors, in the worst case, private ones, who also want to get their gasheft in the form of official payments. This situation is, in my opinion, totally unfair and needs to be corrected. In addition, there is such a problem that even in the event of payment of fines for infringements of traffic regulations, executive conduct still opens up, and sometimes they are quite difficult to close, given that a certain legal conflict is taking place. In addition, there is a problem, there is a problem with fictitious debt, but it is rather a problem of black notaries who, through private artists, block cards for Ukrainian citizens. So I want this speech to be seen as an appeal to the Ministry of Justice, namely, to Minister Dennis Maleyuka, in order to bring all bases in order, so that all the fines will be raised so that all citizens will be notified in time. And the digitization that we took the course for, it got its successful completion and had a positive result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u125	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! Once again, I would like to draw attention from this rostrum to an extremely important topic related to the development of the education and teaching system of Ukraine. How positive it must be to recognize that President Vladimir Zelensky, in his letter, focused on the importance and priority of this topic. And this, I think, is a direct task for everyone, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers, to the authorities on the spot, to take all necessary measures to improve the conditions for the functioning of educational institutions of all types, in order to create the necessary conditions for those who work in these educational institutions that teach our children, to raise them, to work with young people. In terms of the general theoretical direction, it seems to me that I have to go back to the question of adopting a national strategy for the development of the education and science system in Ukraine by 2030 as a software, deep document that would incorporate all the components of this field. And that, I think, will provide it with more quality and full funding. In terms of practical tasks, the creation of a new university, as called the Presidential University, I personally see as an extremely important issue the creation of higher institutions of a new kind: scientific technological centres that can gather for the training of the most talented and capable of our children, who are able today to provide a breakthrough in modern technology and be competitive in the world's markets. Finally, the practical task put by the President of Ukraine is to raise teachers' salaries next year, not lower for teachers than for medical workers, and this is about 20,000 dollars or more. I think this is task number one. I'm now addressing you, your honorary fellow MPs, we have to do everything we can to ensure that next year, by adjusting the budget of the year, as of September 1, 2022, the introduction of such a pay system. It's going to be our common answer to all the teachers, the teachers, the manufacturing teachers, the teachers, their jobs. Thank you for your attention, and please support these important tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u127	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Melnik Paul Viktorovich by the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u128	Paul Melnik, 81 constituency, "Serve of the People" faction. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I would like to draw your attention to the current road repair situation in Zaporozhye region. This year Zaporozhye Region has become a leader in the pace and repair of roads in the Big Building program. The issue of repairing roads in the region has been under personal control since the beginning of my office. During this time, he directed dozens of parliamentary inquiries and held numerous meetings with high - ranking workers, all of which produced significant results. In two years roads in Zaporozhye region became more comfortable and safer. Thanks to the efforts of the MPs, positive results have been obtained. Renovation of the Tokmak-Pologis and Tokmak-Orich roads is already under way. These routes have been out of sight and without quality repairs for decades, and the state of road cover has caused the risk of accident. The news that has been waiting for many years is the road from Yakimovka to Kirilovka resort. The repairs took place more than 40 miles [40 km] by road, and it is already a beautiful road that allows our vacationers to make their way to the Kirilovka resort in the summer. The M-14 route from Primorske to Priazovsky and to Melitopol is being repaired. This road is also a priority. In Zaporozhye, bridges on public roads are being restored at an active pace. So on the N-30 national route Vasilyvka-Tokmak-Berdjansk, an emergency bridge is being repaired across the Kiltic River. And for further repairs and plans for the year 2022, I have already asked MPs about the need to repair the Wessel-Melitopolis road. Because the Wessel community has joined the Melitopol region and where the vast majority of state institutions are located, so the road from Merry Christmas to Melitopol is very important. There is no need to overlook the need to upgrade the road cover on the Panfilivka route to Primorsk. The surrounding areas include large villages, such as Panfilivka, Manuilovka, Petrovka, and Novoleksyivka. And for residents, the road from Panfilivka to Primorsk is very important. And it is also a serious task to preserve existing roads. I have also been asked to repair the road from Tokmak to Molochansk, Molochanska to Melitopol, and the road from Tokmak to Chernigivka. In order to preserve the roads, I have already made appropriate parliamentary inquiries to the National Police, the National Road Agency of Ukraine, because it is necessary to build and preserve the quality of the roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u129	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhailuk Galini Olegovni, and this is the final performance for today, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please, the people's deputy Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Dmitri Mikishi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u131	Good afternoon! Mikisha Dmitry, 181, "Smart Politics", Kharkishte. I would like to raise the issue of higher education reform in Ukraine. Look, I'm going to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine with one question: why is Kharkiv and Kharkiv district an experimental field for reforming higher education? I have repeatedly addressed my colleagues in the Interfractional Union of Freedom of mind to all authorities, primarily the MON, about a completely absurd, incomprehensible union of four higher institutions of agrarian education. The University of Kharkiv, a state-owned biotechnology university, was established, and two nationals entered it. That's absurd. How can that be? Next. The emotions of all the steakholders, all the participants in these protests, as new protests, did not diminish. Kharkiv University of Architecture and Construction joins the Kharkiv National University of Urban Agriculture. Standing pints, constant rallying, the opposition of all participants, primarily those who have a bearing on the University of Architecture and Construction. What? We see that Kabin makes decisions and unites these universities. Next. There's no logic at all. Also, the interfractional merger of "Sliboyanity" was addressed to the MONU first, and to the Kabmin, and to the Prime Minister with a question. With proposals to continue providing a package of medical training services for the Harkow Medical Academy of Postgraduate Education. They've been denied. And what's interesting is that a couple of months later, this package of medical training services gets to Kharkiv National University of Kharkiv Political Engineering. So once again, the teaching package of medical guidance is given to the polytechnic institute. It's absurd, it's nonsense. How can that be? Quarkish is one of the leading fields of science. 38 higher education institutions are the capital of science. I'm going to call on MONU again, and I urge you not to make Harkov and Kharkishte an experimental field in higher education reform, so let's take this into consideration, thoughtfully and consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-03-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished our speeches. I would like to remind you that the following week, national deputies work on committees, commissions, factions, and groups. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, December 14, at 10 a.m. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
