ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for registration. As always, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the "for" button, the first one on the left, or the green one. Dear colleagues, ready to register? I see there was football yesterday. Please register. [[10:02:22]] There are 151 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I see you're being stopped. Well, first of all, I wanted to greet everyone with a victory, thank our football players for last night! I think they made it for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u2	Heroic glory! And back to our work. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have up to 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u3	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, Mr. Head, distinguished Ukrainian people! The market for the earth is entering tomorrow. And that's a good thing. But what is happening? We do well to associate with the people who work on this earth. I was in line on my native Dniproperty and another bad news from there. For example, in the village of Kazhnacheivka in the district of Dnipropetrov, in fact, one person was handed over an enormous amount of land, moving the land, changing its target to haystack and grazing. This land will be ruined. And in fact, people are taking this land away. Another trick that happened. In the vicinity of the village of Spaszké, a land plot containing a water object containing a canal was transferred to a private farm. What does this indicate, in fact? And that only indicates that the land is passed on without an exit, and just in the offices, even in spite of all the disruptions, to the agreement that was to be obtained. It's just that when we, this Supreme Council, have adopted the law and won't let land transfer take place without the competitions, it will allow the communities to manage land, in fact, thousands of hectares of land have been stolen from people throughout Ukraine in the last six months. We can't look at it calmly. Dear colleagues, on the eve of the land market, I am again addressing the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, finally the President. Dear Mr. President, this is a matter of national security, again in the last few months the earth has been torn apart. Please note this, and I want this issue brought back to the National Security and Defence Council. Colleagues, we cannot allow the days leading up to the earth’s market to continue stealing the earth. I call on each and every one of you, to each of you majors, to each list: communicate with the people, raise these facts. And let's do a single report to raise this question to the highest level. Let earth’s people work, live on their own earth, and be rich on their own earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u4	Thank you. Kostuch Anatoly Vejacheslavovich. Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Last week he spent another week on active work in 98 constituencies (Kyivsk oblast). A lot of meetings, a lot of communication, people have different problems -- it's the quality of roads, it's the quality of medical services, it's social security, it's the functioning of educational institutions, it's a lot more. But problem number one 98 in the district is the systemic power failures and the inadequacy of the quality of electricity supply. At each of the meetings in the territorial communities, which is more than 5 villages where I was, the Borispol district, and the cities of Borispol, too, the same questions are repeated: people pay for the services they receive from Kiev regional electricity networks and Kiev electricity networks, but electricity suppliers do not meet their obligations, the quality of electricity does not meet the standard, the voltage is often much lower than the standard. The other problem is the system's constant power shut-offs. I have been personally involved in this problem for over two years. I've repeatedly pointed out that a permanent disconnection is not just a lack of electricity, it's also a non-working elevator, water supply, sewage, and in the winter, it's a lack of heat. And if people do not have gas supplies, and there is only electricity, they should prepare food in the courtyards in multistory buildings. During quarantine, the problem only got worse. What is the full distance learning that digitization can talk about in these conditions if there is simply no electricity in these cities and in these villages? The incident that occurred at the end of last week again demonstrated a violent situation. Almost two years ago, residents of the village of Proliska were powerless, and people were led to a state when they were ready to block the Kiev-Borispil route to draw attention to their problem. For three days, the city of Boryspol suffered from a lack of electricity. The city is virtually uninhabitable. On the hotline of the power company, people were told that the problem was caused by the reconstruction of the Kiev-Borispil road, but this is an insinuation to hide its incompetence. I went to the minister of infrastructure, and he confirmed that this was false information. The problem was not in repair roads, but in Kiev power grids, there was no emergency response equipment. Only the help of their colleagues from the Kiev Regional Power Plants will allow electricity to be restored in these villages. People should not be held hostage to the fact that a private company improperly fulfils its contractual obligations. I would like to point out that from such a service of electricity supply, the dissatisfaction of the inhabitants is primarily directed at representatives of the authorities, at us as national deputies. The task of state institutions and self-government bodies is to protect the rights of residents to receive quality services for which people pay no small cost at all, respected colleagues. On another occasion, I made a parliamentary appeal to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u6	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u7	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, I would like to welcome our congregation with such a determined and willful victory. Thanks, guys, and thank you, Coach. Colleagues, you know, the market for the earth opens tomorrow. I wanted to examine, and what was done, whether the Supreme Council gave access to funding or to the financial resources of those living in the village. These are one-man farms that produce 50 percent of agrarian products and more than 4 million of them, and you multiply by family is 12 million people. They don't have that kind of access today. Please tell me, did the Supreme Council or the government grant farmers access to financial resources? Has the National Bank changed its lending policy, or is it still mortgaged and under its categories that the National Bank has defined as non-risk? Colleagues, the problem is that most small farmers who don't report, who don't do accounting, or who don't work with banks, won't be able to buy Ukrainian land. Who, then, will buy Ukrainian land? You've allowed the purchase of Ukrainian land to people who have crazy wealth in their electronic declarations, people who have nothing to do with agriculture. You've actually taken away the dominant right and given this right to money: whoever pays more will have the Ukrainian land. And that's the problem of inequality, the inequality of access to the actual land market. Nothing's done with the raid. Colleagues, raiding is, unfortunately. I'm not saying that the responsibility of those notaries who can simply rewrite the land in the register today, we haven't entered it yet. And finally, I'd like us to be representatives of the Ukrainian people. And representatives of the Ukrainian people always think of the Ukrainian people. And if today all sociological research suggests that Ukrainians are against the sale of land, they do not want to sell land. Why push all these laws into the night? Why ignore people’s thoughts today? Why make sure that the Central Election Commission does not announce a referendum and prevent people from doing their will? They want to show their attitude. Allow people in the referendum to say yes or no to the reform you call land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u8	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u9	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, it's a venerable presidency! Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Without a doubt, the main topics in Ukraine today are theme number one. Because my colleague at the Fatherland faction, Vadim Yvchenko, is saying that tomorrow, with this impeccable lobbying decision, the agricultural land market is opening up, and, of course, it's the very key topic that it is. The second question of priority would be the subject of tariff formation. Because the very creation of tariff policy is a heavy burden for urban heads, for those heads who for the first time have become leaders of the united territorial communities and who are forced to take the burden upon themselves because they have heat - power companies that provide heat services. And an equally important topic that I would like to raise in my speech is the subject of education. Optimization, which is the word in the government, predicted that schools would be cut short on the settlement network. Why in the village? Because, in those united urban communities to which villages have been joined, respected colleagues have a huge deficit in subsidies to pay wages to schoolchildren. They're forcing the Ministry of Finance to cut costs. Why? Because in schools where it may not be possible to bring children, either in the absence of a school bus, or in the absence of a school bus, for example, these unregulated railways, where it is very dangerous to transport children, take them from that village to another. That is why the city’s heads, who have a huge educational subsidy deficit, are forced to consult and have to talk about certain school closures and optimizations. We see all over the country in those united territorial communities as our teachers go on strike. And when the elite, when already those people who mount society's position, go on strike, sorry, please, we already have serious problems here. And teachers don't just go out, they go out to protect their schools so they don't have to shut down schools, so that the authorities at the Ministry of Finance have the opportunity to review their techniques of charging these subsidies and date in the middle of the year. Grants, excuse me, and allow them to pay the full salary fund, send teachers on vacation to rest and prepare for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u10	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u11	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Honourable Ukrainians, honourable deputies, distinguished presidency! I just want to give you some information about what Ukrainian society is looking forward to in the energy sector in the coming month. Because two more weeks -- and you and I are going to go to a well-deserved vacation temporarily, and I want you to understand that in the near future, the government has already prepared a step to stabilize the energy situation first, which is to raise electricity tariffs for the population. He had to do it on July 1st, but obviously he didn't want the political tension, obviously he was going to go through the Earth process, so that's why this is going to happen on August 1. I can tell you that the approximate scenario is an increase of about one and a half times, up to three dollars on average, the price of electricity is virtually all kinds of people. Maybe the poor will get lucky, but a lot of the population will pay for it. And now I have a question for you. Guys, did you and I foresee this in subsidies? And you and I understand what holes are being closed at the expense of this promotion? Over the past year, six steel - computer companies have resold 26 billion dollars of electricity, earning about 10 billion dollars. These are the bracelets, the billions that NAC didn't get from Energoat, Ukrenergo. Now, please understand, this is all under the responsibility of the National Energy Regulatory Commission, a non-constitutional body that is essentially created and appointed by the President of Ukraine. That's why I'm addressing you, Vladimir Alexanderovich, this is your area of responsibility. It's your appointment -- Tarasyuk, Babi, and others -- that today provided this fraudulent scheme of money-laundering from the energy sector that will eventually pay the population. And now the third is gas and heat. Friends, do you know what's going on in your regions right now? Do you know that today there's a process of raising tariffs all over Ukraine for heat? The first tray is the city of Chernivci: raising the tariff by 75 percent. Think again: 75 percent! On the average, across the country, it's going to be 40-45 percent of the increase in heat tariffs, starting with Kiev and ending with any re-centre, where there's central heating. And do you know what tariff is expected for the budget area, where the gas is going to be sold at a commercial price, and today it's 12 or 13 dollars per cube? So, dear friends, believe me, it's not the time to use language to convince each other of their reforming success. The situation is critical, and unfortunately, I do not see today the ability and desire of the Supreme Council to come to its solution. Get your hands off me, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u12	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u13	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! In my speech today, I would like to draw the attention of the national deputies of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, to one very important problem. In Ukraine (for those who do not know), there is a very important object that has been added to the census of Ukraine’s national heritage. This object is located in the Kharkiv region, it is a test site of the Scientific Research and Design Institute of Molnia, which is part of the National Technical University of Kharkiv Political Engineering. What is the uniqueness of this object? It was built during the Soviet period of the development of the Ukrainian state. It is unique not only for Ukraine but also for the whole world. This is where the test was carried out on the electromagnetic stability of a spaceship repeatedly using the Soviet-type Buran. This is where the test of the sad, or famous, intercontinental ballistic missile SS-18 "Satan" was conducted. This range tested other very large technical equipment for electromagnetic stability. Today’s standards oblige manufacturers of various technical tools to test in real time and in actual conditions, both in such laboratories and in such fields. The uniqueness of this polygon is that it is no longer only in Ukraine, it is not in Europe or in Eurasia. Something similar, to what is in the Kharkiv region, is only on the American continent. Why am I talking about this today? Because this polygon is in an emergency. Do not give God, some natural disaster — he may be completely destroyed. Very funny, but for it to be saved today, some 50 million dollars are needed from the government budget. This is because if we upgrade it somewhat, we will be driven by appropriate technical equipment and weapons samples from all over Europe and Asia. And that's hundreds of millions of dollars of annual income. So I go once again to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Science and Education, to the Ministry of Defence: working together to find a solution to this problem and to preserve such an important object of the national heritage of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u14	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u15	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! In December of last year, the session hall voted 2141 in its first reading by a majority. This is about increasing pensions for military personnel who have been released from the ranks of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other power structures at various times and receive various pensions. We in the Social Committee have prepared an appeal to the National Security and Defence Committee for consideration -- think about it, it's been on the committee for more than six months -- so that the National Security and Defence Committee will review the bill and direct it to the session hall for adoption and approval on second reading and in general. More than half a million Ukrainian citizens are awaiting the approval of the bill, who have given their entire conscious life to the service of the Ukrainian people, and are now in contempt of the courts and awaiting a judicial decision to uphold their right to a decent pension. The next bill looks forward to a review of the promotion of pension insurance for government officials who have also been released for deserved rest in various years, but who have different pensions depending on the year of their release. I also immediately request the leadership of the Supreme Council that the issue of retirement be put into the session hall for approval. The government promised those who had reached the age of 75 years and, plus, to pay 400 dollars from July 1st. And the bad news that the government canceled its decision was that on October 1st, the payment was made to people who were 75 years old and over, 400 dollars. Before making a decision, consider where to take the money, and do not deceive the Ukrainian people. Another problem that needs to be exacerbated today is that 300 percent of the payments are paid to medical personnel who are treating Ukrainian citizens who are ill with COVID-19. Thank God, there has been a decline in disease in the country, and doctors complain that 300 percent are not being paid, and the reason is that there has been a decline in the number of hospitalized, ill - treated patients. The senior management of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Service is not a professional approach. Medical care must be supported in order to prevent such.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u16	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Muchenec Oleni Volodymyrni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Katchuri Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u18	Alexander Kachura, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u19	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian citizens, I welcome everyone, indeed, with the victory of our Ukrainian collective. But in doing so, I would like exactly the same victory to be won in respect of people's rights, because we recently celebrated the pompous 25th anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine, but it was supposed to be a celebration of the rule of law. Unfortunately, we have both the Constitution and most of the legislative acts, they're simply not being implemented, and there's question number one -- it's a system that we need to change, transform. And the second question is that Ukrainian citizens in their majority, they don't know their rights, they're not informed about the whole of the laws, that they predict how to defend their rights, which means they can't lobby effectively for the exercise of their rights. This includes the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, because the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. For example, there is a project called Free Legal Aid, and according to 2021, only three quarters of Ukrainians know that there is free legal aid in general. I think it's a disaster. The Ministry has to work, and so I'm asking the Minister of Justice to solve this question and really to the Ukrainians, they understood that not only do we have declared some rights, that we have laws to declare, because any of the best laws we're about to adopt in this room -- it's just not going to be implemented. And we have to think about that first. We have to do everything we can to ensure that the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution are implemented, because there is a parliament for this, for this, the parents-founding Ukraine have adopted the Constitution of Ukraine. Because those and the basic ideas that are enshrined in the Constitution should not just be a declaration, they should be the standards of direct action that are being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u20	The word is given to the National Deputy Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the situation of opposition rights that is unique in this session hall, which in general is unique. But this is the only way that five deputies from the Fatherland faction can at least raise the most important questions that really concern people. Not the question of how to break the Constitution, not the question of how to resolve some mercantile business interests, but the global issues relating to the protection of the land market, which relate to the failure to raise tariffs, which relate to the fact that the gas of its own production goes directly to the citizens of Ukraine. These questions are of the greatest concern. I would like to raise the second subject that is most important to us. The Constitutional Court is locked down, it can't work. The Central Election Commission cannot make a decision because it can't make a decision without the Bank's bribe. See what happens to Ukrainian citizens. They cannot go to a referendum to express their position on the most important issues, including the possibility of purchasing and selling agricultural land. What rights of opposition? What rights do those citizens who did not vote for the party of power or for this President? In fact, they're gone. And the legislation doesn't provide for that. And only in such performances can we concentrate on raising such questions. Now, now that from the Carpathian captives to the Blacklands of the South and the center of Ukraine, in fact, everyone is starting to count clearly, and what they're going to get is a citizen who eventually gets a state from the so-called agricultural land market, I think every hair gets up. In general, there is no normative assessment of land, there are no land borders at all. We have today, as soon as it becomes clear that the earth is becoming an agricultural target of the same commodity as the bitcoin that can be speculated on in the market. Only those who did so forgot one thing: The earth is not a bitcoin! Bitcoins you can own, you can do anything with them. This is no way to treat the earth. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction insists that the Referendum Act be amended immediately. By your decision, you blocked the possibility of holding a referendum on any issue. Because any fairy group can stop the referendum. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u22	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u24	Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, do you know what hell is, or when your child is being tried for an hour? This is known to Victoria Mostovenko, the mother of little Sofia, who has epilepsy. She's been in the courts for four years, she can't eat properly, she can't sleep. Her mother in Ukraine was forced to become a smuggler because she was taking her child medicine based on a medical cannabis so that she could sleep properly. Imagine that the vessels in her child, which lasted for hours, last only a few minutes with medical cannabis. I’m in touch with Victoria almost every day. And when she asks me, "Olu, why is there still no cure on the basis of a medical cannabis in Ukraine?" – I don't know what to tell her. For six months at the National Health Committee with colleagues, we worked out the text of a bill that already provides for everyone, medicines, not drugs, and medicines based on medical cannabis, which will be severely controlled, will be issued by the doctor’s electronic prescription. Today, I believe, the National Health Committee, colleagues support this bill to be considered in the Hall. But we have only a week and a half left before the end of this session. And I'm told that we're not going to be able to make it this summer, most likely to consider this bill, because there are many other important bills. That's why I want to go to Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky, to Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, and to colleagues of a monogamy. Bill 5596 was signed by 82 national deputies, colleagues from various factions. Thank you so much for that. And I'm sure the hall will support him as well. But we have to give this summer a chance to give Victoria Mostovenko's hope, her daughter Sofia, and two million other Ukrainians suffering from oncology, PTSD, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, we have to give them a chance at a normal life, because you and I promise for two years that we're going to do it, and we're not going to do it. So I just want to ask everyone to do this, colleagues: help, support, let's do a very good job at the end of this session for the sick Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u26	Thank you. The time for the show is up. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u27	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, of course, yesterday the whole world saw the victory of Ukraine. We won on our own, with no hope of anyone. Ukraine’s victory can continue to be one thing: when we overcome the era of poverty; when we feed Ukrainian people and children; when we give jobs and bring investors here who will not be afraid of government officials who rob businesses. Victory will be when schools are not closed but developed, and girls will be born in Ukraine, as was the case in 1991, 53 million people. And today, eight people die in that area and one is born, and in a peaceful Ukraine, four people die, one child is born. Next. The age of poverty will end when the medical field is not completely destroyed but constructed. Look, in the Rubi district of Lugansk and the disgusting thing that's sitting there today, and the President hasn't released it, he's sending a letter to the MOH today that Rubižan hospital is unable to treat COVID today. This Rubijan hospital took on the first blow of a cadaverized patient and cured many people, the smallest death in a hospital in Rubižan. Who will be responsible for the lie? I'm asking Minister Lášk, MOH, to give immediate attention to Luhansk. The age of poverty will end when we develop our agricultural sector. What about today? There's a lot of bullying going on. Today all "ministers of the people" are calling President Zelensky: "Vlodimir Aleksandrovich, look there, look there, open your eyes!" Look at what's happening today with the construction in general. In the city of Kremíní, the governor buys 1 million houses, which were on Facebook for 1 million dollars, and buys them for 8 million dollars. He robs eight times. And what, he's gonna take him to the coffin, all the money he's gonna steal? Next. He makes 68 million dollars for the same house in Kremenni. You can buy all of Silicone for this money, three times pay the salaries of pensioners and doctors. The age of poverty will end when we fully fill the Pension Fund, where 200 billion dollars today is the hole. I'm being approached by single mothers who don't pay the benefits they're supposed to receive today. Please tell me, who will be responsible for this? And the Social Ministry also requires these women to return the money they've been paid. Which door does that fit? Not at all. What kind of Europe are we going to, ladies and gentlemen? Let's watch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u28	Thank you. It's the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! There is a suggestion to change the turn of the bill. Now consider Bill 4594 quickly, social, beautiful. As far as I know, there is agreement with all factions to consider it without discussion. So I suggest we look at it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the proposal has now come to consider the bill of registration number 4594 on making changes to the article. 4594 without discussion. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 219 of the Code of Administrative Offences (in order to extend the powers of parking inspectors to protect the interests of persons with disabilities) (registration number 4594). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:41:12]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals on the import of pesticides into customs territory of Ukraine (registration No. 2289). Is someone going to insist on the papers? Then let's go straight. Please, Oleg Sergiyovich, on the rostrum. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Is he insisting? 3rd Amendment, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, respected citizens, this project proposes to allow the import into Ukraine of unknown-origin pesticides in unlimited access. Well, what are you going to vote for now? Tell us, in what normal country where the authorities care about the lives and health of citizens is it possible? If we are a European country, we should move in the opposite direction and gradually refuse pesticides. Last year, the European Union developed a programme to double the use of pesticides by 2030. Europeans understand that pesticides are good and very bad for citizens. What are you doing?Oh, my God! Do you really care about soil pollution, groundwater pollution, air, water, and the destruction of trees?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u32	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u33	The committee's position is to reject this amendment. It's a manipulation, it's only a limited number of test samples, and vice versa, Ukraine is not able to use modern pesticides, plant protection products that are more efficient, more ecological. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u34	I'm betting on the vote number 3 of Puziyczuk, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:43:39]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Surkis. Don't insist. Yvchenko, 5 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u35	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Respectful colleagues, the mandatory condition for the introduction and application of pesticides not registered in Ukraine for these purposes, are to document their national registration in the country of the manufacturer. It was my turn, it was my turn in 2015, which was supported by Parliament, the last Parliament. Now you're canceling this standard, and it's completely contrary to articles 16, 50 of the Constitution, where environmental security is ensured and guaranteed. Paragraph 8 of the preamble to the European Union Rules provides that the highest level of protection of human and animal origin should be ensured. The permission to trade in pesticides and agrochemicals after the expiry of the registration period does not comply with the Rules and also violates the European Union’s obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u36	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u37	Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. Your right has led to the loss of a Ukrainian agro-man since 2015, and the country has lost its exports. The manufacturer did not receive modern drugs, lost Ukrainian agrarian science, which has no access to new active substances, lost an environment that cannot use a lower safety class. Instead, your right hand has won smugglers and counterfeiters, whose market volume has increased to nearly 5 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u38	5 Ivchenka's Amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:05]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Sixth grade, Maedic. Don't insist. Burmich. Seventh right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u39	I have a 7th and a 12th. If you don't mind, two minutes, and a 7th vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u40	After a minute then. Or I'll put in a minute and two adjustments. Please start at the beginning for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u41	Okay. Thank you. Today, there is a rule that if there are no pesticides registered in Ukraine, they are imported from another country, they are tested and then used. Today, as proposed by law, imports of pesticides that have not been registered anywhere at all. Who said they were pesticides? This is unknown because there is no certificate of origin or responsibility. They can bring anything in here and poison us. We're going to turn our country into a test site, we can't do that. If someone wants to drive an unknown vehicle, let our scientists try it out, and then they give permission, and that's not what they're doing. Nor did this law pass through an anti-corruption committee recognized as having "corruption risks". This cannot be accepted because we fill ourselves with unknown things, unknown to whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u42	I'll bet you vote number seven. Yes, did you ask for it? 7 revisions, it's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:47:58]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Eight row, Laba. Don't insist. Surkis doesn't insist. Batenko doesn't insist. Yvchenko, 16th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u43	Colleagues, I'm talking to those statesmen who think about environmental security. Every pesticide and yadchemic, it has to go through and get a documentary confirmation of how this will affect our countries, our ecology, the animal world that is in the country today. Colleagues, it's important that you listen to environmentalists and don't accept lobby laws. I don't understand why we don't listen to the environmental committee, I don't understand why we don't listen to what you've created directly from the Ministry of Ecology, which says that it's imperative to apply unregistered pesticides for state trials to be documented. What are you talking about, colleagues? Where is the health of the nation as the primary priority enshrined in the Constitution? Please don't do anything stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u44	16 law, Yvchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:37]] For-73 No decision taken, no correction counted. Next thing you know, Bondarev. Don't insist. The Black Seas don't insist. Halimon? All right, all right, all right. Please prepare for the vote. What's not confirmed? Turn on Yvchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u45	I, my colleagues, wanted to thank those deputies who have just supported my application, especially the leadership of the Parliament, Mr. Razumkov and Mr. Stefanchuk. Colleagues, let's just be statesmen for once. And when we adopted an appropriate bill in 2015, we were just thinking about how to ensure human health, we were just thinking about how to provide Ukrainian citizens with normal food products. We did not think about introducing an infinite number of pesticides and poisons to Ukraine. We didn't think about how from any country unregistered these chemicals were to be imported into Ukraine. We even talked about state trials and documentary confirmations. That's what the previous Parliament was thinking. And I thank all the statesmen who support this position. This bill is asked to be re-read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u46	What's the correct number? 1st? I'll bet you vote number one. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[10:51:50]] For 269 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's go to the vote for the law, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals on the Importation of Pesticides into Customs Territory of Ukraine (registration No. 2289). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:52:40]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is Bill 4367. Please tell me, who's going to insist on editing? Katchura, Nikolainka, Cymbaluk, I see. Please write down the corrections you will insist on. Kachura, let's start with Kachura. Andrew Ivanovich, Mikhailo Mikhailovich, Galina Ivanovna A duck. Sit down, where are you going? You can't do that from the rostrum. It's a second reading. From the microphone, from the spot, please. The number of the readjustment you insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u47	Dmitri Alexanderovich, you said to write, so I wanted to write to you. My amendment, which I will ask to vote on, is a 1260 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u48	What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u49	1260.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u50	Ivanchuk, please come to the rostrum. It's the number again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u51	1260.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u52	1260 revisions are put to the vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. 1260s. [[10:54:31]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Everything? You said to put it up, we put it up. We've moved on to this one. Let's do the next one, I'll do the show. Is that it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u53	Dmitri Alexanderovich, you didn't let me make a sound, you put an amendment to the vote. What do you mean, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u54	Let's do the next one, and now you're going to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u55	Okay, so I have this right-hand side of my authorship that I wanted to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u56	We've already voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u57	I understand, but I'm asking you to keep an eye out for the MPs to be able to make a statement. Because if I'm entitled right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u58	What's your turn now? Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u59	Dmitri Alexanderovich, me. The bill, specifically this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u60	The number? Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u61	You just think about what you voted for, because. Those who have not supported the amendment, I ask everyone to note now that all the directors of the National Bank Board, the Government, even if they have committed a crime, an administrative offence, they will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u62	The number of the amendment that, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u63	1260 of the previous line, I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u64	We voted on it. Next line 1015, Vasilchenko. Next time you go less please, Alexander Anatolyevich. Teach the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u65	Amendment 1015 refers to the fact that NBU is given the right to create companies and businesses. This amendment is corrupt, it needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u66	Wait, please. What's the readout? It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u67	That's right. I'm putting her on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u68	Let's end up with confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u69	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u70	Are you insisting on some kind of readout? I asked you what kind of remedies you insist on, colleagues. Either write or let us behave in a normal way. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u71	Yeah, I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u72	The numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u73	Two amendments, I'll take two in a minute and I'll have two votes. These are two revisions: one 1022 and 1050. They relate to the powers of the National Bank Board. So this is actually a very important amendment, because today the Board of the National Bank, its powers are clearly prescribed. There are the most competent representatives, the Supreme Council of Representatives delegates, and they now appoint members of the National Bank Authority. At the same time, as I propose for the vote, they cease to be the governing body that is illogical. So I'm asking you to write an editorial in such a way that, because they're approving monetary policy, they're controlling it as one of the governing bodies of the National Bank. And the second amendment refers to the possibility of gathering them together, when they think it's necessary, not once a quarter. Are we going to pay them a salary to meet four times a year? That's not right. So two revisions please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u74	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, we have provided for not less than once a quarter in the bill, but there are unlimited mandates in the Supervisory Board, even though every day there are additional meetings for operational decisions, for the operational management of the National Bank. That's why it's at least once a quarter. And more often, please, as soon as they get there, the job will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u76	I'll bet two votes in a row: 1022, 1050. Yeah? I'm betting on the 1022 vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:27]] For-137 The decision is not taken. Next line is 1050. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:50]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u77	Three minutes please, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u78	Three minutes, please. Yes, you have 77 straight lines. Three minutes of the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u79	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, in principle, for the sake of justice, it is necessary to say that the committee for the second reading has improved the bill. And I thank you for including the revisions of our factions. This is Nicholas, my colleagues, and others. But there are some risks in the bill that I would like to pay attention to today. This bill is given to the National Mega Power Bank in part of the liquidation or supervision of banks and the possibility of burying or depositing any bank. The bill also gives Nutzbank the right to disclose to the public authorities information that is a bank secret, which is also dangerous. Additional payments are made to members of the National Bank from 40 to 50 percent. And two extremely risky things. According to this bill, it is proposed that the state budget will be allocated to all former workers — attention! - A lawyer's bill of lading, legal aid. Dear colleagues, you can live in London, and the state of Ukraine will pay for all services, including lawyers. I think this man will soon need lawyers when Ukraine takes its stand for national interests. In this way, we can also walk on Naftogaz, the Crucifixion. Next thing you know, there's a rule in the bill about increasing the number of members of the NBA Board to seven. Today, as far as we know, there are six, and they're doing their job. If one of them doesn't work, it's not a bill. So it's proposed to introduce another member of the government -- the deputy head of the National Bank, probably loyal to someone and on some street. We believe that this bill still needs to be worked out. But the fact that the second reading was able to hold up important positions that would serve as a government regulator and allow him to oversee banking institutions is positive. I would like to conclude by saying once again, dear colleagues, because there are these two standards that are risky, which I have announced, the Motherland team cannot vote for such a bill. Otherwise, the price will be the budget of the entire Ukrainian people for all the predecessors, including those who created the "bankopad" in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u80	Who else insists on accounting? Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich, please tell us the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u81	1018.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u82	1018?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u83	Yes. This amendment relates to the approval by the Council of the National Bank of Resources. Regrettably, this paragraph has fallen completely out of the draft law today. And today the Council of the National Bank is responsible in relation to the Constitution for the basic principles of monetary policy. And that is why I insist that the cost will still be approved by the National Bank Board for the submission of the Head of the National Bank Authority, because the Council is a constitutional body, and it must exercise control, not government itself. And that's why I'm proposing to support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u84	I'm betting on the 1018 Taruts vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:47]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Did everyone pass? [[B in m in s a l in]] You have confirmation. There is a difference, colleagues. Vasilchenko. Galina Ivanovna, did you write 1015, 1055 and 1069? 1095. 1015 is on confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u85	Colleagues, this is about the fact that NBA is given the right to create companies, businesses that will then be able to balance some factories, sanatoriums. It's completely out of control, so I'm asking you not to support this amendment and fail it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u86	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u87	We think it's not about sanatoriums, it's about a bank-monetary yard, a special paper factory for manufacturing and printing money, for representation abroad. So we think that this right should be in the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u88	I'm betting on the 1015 vote. The committee took her into account. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:05:23]] For 265 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 1069. Edit included partially. Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u89	Look, colleagues, there have been a lot of heated discussions on this amendment on the committee. It is partially accounted for, and it refers to, part of the increase in the number of members of the government. And we didn't get enough arguments on the committee to understand why we should increase the number of members of the board. Now there's 6 of them, and this amendment is going to increase to 7. And this is completely unnecessary, illogical and only an additional 5 billion dollars a year from our budget. Therefore, the request does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u90	I'll bet you 1069. Partially counted. The committee is supported. It is put to the vote by the committee to confirm, i.e. the consideration in part. Please support and vote in the committee. [[11:06:46]] For 278 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. 1095, Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u91	Like previous amendments, unfortunately, this bill has been introduced after the first reading with a great deal of rules that should not apply to the bill at all. And the specific law of 1095 refers to the fact that the employees of the National Bank are not allowed to borrow, to obtain loans, in fact, in such banks. There's no such thing in the world, it's nonsense. And regulators should have the right to operate in banks where they want and do not violate their rights. Therefore, the request does not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u92	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u93	The distinguished national deputies, indeed, made an amendment to avoid conflict of interest. And I fully agree with the statement that we didn't consider that there are micro-services for the National Bank employees, such as card bills, overdrafts, open credit card lines. And we, as the author, are asking to support the rejection of this amendment. It's taken into account by the committee, please place it on confirmation and not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u94	I'll bet you a vote. You've all heard the position. I'm betting on the vote number 1095. The committee is supported. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:08:43]] For-55 Edit rejected. Have you gone through all the lines? Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve corporate governance issues in banks and other matters of the functioning of the banking system (registration No. 4367). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:38]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next question. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the mechanisms for the withdrawal of banks from the market and to meet the requirements of the creditors of these banks (register No. 4546). The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Nikolainka, Nina Petrovna, and Herasimov. Oh, Nina Petrovna. Oh, Mama, I'm sorry. Write it down, please, then, who else will be. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich, tell me the number of the application immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u95	Number 35, Nikolainka, Fatherland. The amendment refers to the particular need to address this issue before the reform of the pension system is launched. It refers to the fact that investments that nonstate pension funds will place in the banking system should be comparable and guaranteed in the same way as those of individuals. Because people who trust money with nonstate pension funds will at least be confident that if they are lost in banks, the Guarantee Fund will return them and compensate them. This is the protection of the state of investments in non-state pension funds. So please support, 35 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u96	I'm betting on the vote number 35 Niklaenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:35]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next amendment, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u97	106th is not going to be there, because it's going to specify the positions on the first line. Amendment 171a is once again a question of unifying approaches to the return of non-state pension funds. In fact, when a bank goes bankrupt, we know that the Deposit Guarantee Fund has a certain sequence of reimbursements. My claim is that the funds of non-state pension funds that will be lost in banks will come back first compared to other investors. Because pension insurance needs to be protected as much as possible to ensure that people trust this pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u98	I'll bet you 171 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:48]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thank you, Andre Ivanovich. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Tell me the number of the check.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u99	175 revisions. Dear colleagues, to date, the sale of property to the liquidated bank is carried out by the fund in such order. In accordance with article 51, paragraph 12, of the law in force, the fund sells assets to the bank in the form of a complete property complex. In case the bank failed to sell its assets as an entire property complex, the fund sells its assets in pieces. The authors of the bill are the very key words that only if the entire property complex ( well, maybe it should be called the "one property complex") can't be sold, only then can it be sold in parts. And so it turns out that now they've removed this condition -- and they've allowed the fund to sell the property in pieces immediately, to sell what's good, they're usually using demand attractive, and then they've left all that useless to someone and they don't have any extra funds to settle with creditors. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u100	175 revisions, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:24]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u101	The next amendment is 180. Guys, you don't even hear what we're saying in the room, you just click, you don't support. The 180 amendment refers to allowing the fund to invest temporarily in government securities. Have you ever heard of that? It turns out that there's a lot of money in the fund that he can invest in government securities instead of calculating the extracurricularity of creditors. I was given an explanation on the committee that this concerns two banks that are in a temporarily occupied territory and whose costs are allegedly free, because the status of banks is not defined and the creditors are also. But then write down what this is about. temporary norm only for a period of action while the territory is occupied and only for these banks. And so it turns out that only a fund goes into a bank, even a bank manager -- it can immediately put funds, free funds into government securities. I think you are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u102	I'm betting on the vote number 80 of the South. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:55]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u103	I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u104	That's it, thank you. Leonov. No one else insists, except Leonov? Leonov. 189 requisitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Head. 189th Amendment, I propose to exclude from the bill the rule that the costs of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the liquidation procedure of the bank will be paid off on an extra basis. So the investors have to count on what's left to cover the fund's expenses. This completely violates the legitimate interests of investors and conflicts with the objective of the deposit guarantee system in Ukraine. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u106	In view of that, you meant.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u107	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u108	189 Leonov law. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:57]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 199. Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u109	The amendment proposes that the bill make it clear that responsibility comes when wrong decisions are made and criminal acts are committed. Without such a clarification, the bill completely eliminates the stage of establishing and proving a person guilty of criminal conduct, and the Deposit Guarantee Fund is given virtually unlimited powers to withdraw damages from anyone who may be connected to the bank and whom the fund, not the court, will find guilty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u110	I'll bet you 199 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:59]] For-198 The decision is not taken. 224 law, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for your support. 224 revisions, it's parallel to 199, and it also tells us that we need to set precise standards that eliminate the stage of setting and proving the person responsible for criminal conduct. They are not only owners, bank management or their relatives, but also a large group of bank employees who hold key positions, relatives, and others. So the fund is going to bring damage and damage from everyone who's going to be guilty, and you don't have to prove exactly what kind of illegal actions these bank managers or clerics have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u112	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u113	Reject this amendment. This is only true when these relatives received an advantage and were coworkers. So please don't twist the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u114	I'll bet you 224 on Leonov's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:21]] For 175 No decision taken, no correction counted. Thank you. Next line is 214, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please listen and support my amendments, because without them, this bill is a violation of the Constitution and a substitution of concepts. In my opinion, we can't afford to adopt a bill that strikes thousands of Ukrainians working in middle-line banks, namely, on them and, most importantly, on their relatives will be held responsible for "bad" loans. In the current edition, we're going to get just the following: a paralysed system of banking lending and banks in general, and as a result, a problem with GDP and a dollar. If we don't want to, please support the next amendment. This is Amendment 214, which proposes to redraft the law, namely to determine that the right of recourse to the courts is subject to a claim for damages caused by the bank’s credit. The former creditor has been in the fund since the fund discovered or was to detect decisions, actions or omissions that have caused damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u116	I'll bet you 214 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:49]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Mom's next revisions. 39th. Why don't we all vote for a few minutes, Grigory Mikolayovich? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u117	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u118	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, these banking laws, when they're adopted, are always very good. But the problem is, if we compare the first-reading bill and what we release from the hall, it's completely different from the first-reading bill. It's a bill for national MPs who. Including me, I filed an application for articles that were excluded by the committee and suggested that a new concept that was already in place in the law, first, was a treaty on voluntary damages, why the committee ruled out, did not find an explanation for itself. But imagine a situation where a bank that broke down, which was bankrupt, and a liquidation procedure started, the owner, the end beneficiary, who is legally open, there's a possibility, and in fact there's no such thing as now, and this bill would allow him to voluntarily compensate for the damage that he's done, he thinks is about the operation of the bank. The bill also, unfortunately, excludes the concept of a peace treaty. Are we going to spend money on those law enforcement agencies that are going to go after bankers and prove what's the price increase, what's the price drop? But this costs Ukrainian citizens who spend money on the law enforcement system. The state, on my part and from my understanding, should provide legal mechanisms that would: (a) serve as a means to compensate for damage and to conclude a peace agreement. Why it's not convenient for the committee and the state, I can't explain. I think it was necessary not to rule out these rules, but to accept them. This bill is as much news as it is news to me. Why, because the prerogative is to place the funds of state institutions in all banks. But if we compare and take statistics on the principles of strategic reform of the banking sector, the state banks themselves, then the 60-year-old interest rate is reduced by 25 percent. I've proposed with my rights that we don't divide and mix the concept and authority to contribute money to all banks, but give priority to government banks, which we have only a few, and let's just say they raise the economy and still keep the guarantees of the banking sector, the banking structure. In fact, this bill does not provide an opportunity to minimize the role of both.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u120	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Three minutes. Thank you for the constructive, as always, approach and work. I'll put you to the vote. Amendment No. 39 of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:55]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Forty-six Mommies. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:15]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Fifty-two. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:33]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 61 Mama's turn. [[11:25:51]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Seventy-seven. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:12]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next item is 128. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:32]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 162. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:54]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please support as requested. Next line is 173. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:20]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 178. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:38]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 208 Mom's right. The committee is not supported. Partially counted. The author insists on taking full account. I'm voting on the author's proposal to take full account of this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:07]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Dubinsky, 68 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, 68 lashes. It is proposed that the Deposit Guarantee Fund decide whether to invest temporarily in liquidated bank funds in government securities. In itself, the situation is absurd, because as for a bank that's being eliminated, the notion of "temporaryly free expenses," in principle, is not bound. This is not the cost of a bank or the cost of a fund. These are the funds to be used to meet creditors' demands. This is the first time. And secondly, it is not clear how temporarily available funds may be in banks that are declared insolvent or disposed of for other reasons. And I see in this direction, which is now considered by the committee, the possibility of manipulating and actually using money from people who have suffered from bank bankruptcy rather than helping them. So please support my editorial 68.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u122	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u123	Mr. Dubinsky, your amendment was rejected. Why? Because there were two precedents. Banks in occupied areas, you're absolutely right, and logically, why keep the funds, why deposit them in government securities if you have to pay off the debt on the bank's deposits or other liabilities? But there are two precedents. The Deposit Guarantee Fund commented to us, showed that they had encountered such a problem, so we settled it in the bill. But he's going to have this selective, that's not the logic of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u124	I'm betting on the vote number 68. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:19]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 88 lacquers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u125	Good day again. The bill proposes to introduce the conditions under which the Deposit Guarantee Fund provides legal protection for the Fund’s employees, including after their release from the fund, particularly through legal aid. So that's what's going on at the fund's expense. But we need to understand that there is no fund. These are the costs of investors who have suffered from bank bankruptcy. And more than that, we know dozens and hundreds of cases where the Guarantee Fund's employees were involved in the destruction, kidnapping, misappropriation of multi-costed depositors of bankrupt banks. Therefore, in the case of the prosecution of the fund’s employees, the investors they robbed cannot afford to provide them with protection and social security at their own expense. And I think it's an abuse. And I want this bill excluded from the bill, which I am proposing to my fellow Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u126	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u127	Mr. Dubinsky, this is your subjective opinion that the fund’s employees stole something from the investors. But you're right, we need to answer the question. After the events of the last five years in the banking sector of Ukraine, a huge number of decisions have been taken. All assets have been or have been kept in a transparent manner. Today, international practice, our international partners, we have all come to believe that there are spam lawsuits. And the people of the state fund who were doing their job were confronted by a huge number, an army of lawyers on the opposite side. It's not their fault that these banks have been bankrupted, led to the liquidation of the market. It wasn't an initiative fund to get rid of these bankrupt banks. And that's where the hard decisions were made. And, yes, the State should not only be the Deposit Guarantee Fund, it should be about so many government bodies that are dealing with such issues. The State must protect its employees who accept legal, correct, but not easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u128	88 of Dubinsky's paper. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:06]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 181 law. Dubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u129	My colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have just spoken to Mr. Ivanchuk in the form of my rights -- his answers. This is an amendment related to. The first one we voted on is the ability of the Deposit Guarantee Fund to temporarily invest free funds in state securities. You and I understand very well that we have a budget deficit in the state. And we understand very well that the state controls 60 percent of the banking system. But the state deposits its citizens by ridiculous percentages: 0, by currency, 2-3 percent by bracelet. So you don't need money. And if we don't have to, why do we have the Deposit Guarantee Fund empowering investors to invest in government securities? This money should go towards compensation and compensation for the loss of investors. So once again, we need to support this amendment so that people can get their money from both the bankers and the Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u130	I'll bet you 181 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:31]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next. Did all the checks go through? Nobody insists anymore? To confirm three Dubinskys. Is anyone else going to insist on confirmation? No, it's not. Okay. Amendment 211. Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u131	Amendment number 211. Managers, holders of substantial participation and end-of-life beneficial owners of an insolvent bank or bank that has been decided upon to withdraw a licence, are obliged to provide the fund with the order set up by the fund, with information about all their assets and assets. This requirement is contrary to article 32 of the Constitution on the protection of constitutional information about a person as a legal definition and prohibition of the use of the law, which may lead to violations of the constitutional right of everyone to privacy and contravene the legal positions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is not consistent with international acts, nor does it take into account the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The exercise of one right or guarantee should not be a reason to restrict another right or guarantee. I'm just going to add that we've already begun to live in a state where the Constitutional Court has become such a mockery, it's been made by the authorities a mockery, and guarantees of human rights are also a mockery. So let's not make these mistakes here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u132	I'll bet you 211 votes. It's an editorial committee. It's on the committee's agenda. Please support and vote. [[11:36:19]] For 292 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 267 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u133	Part two of article 1 of the current Deposit Guarantee Act stipulates that the purpose of the adoption of the law is to protect the rights and legitimate interests of the bank’s investors. So the law must be directed primarily to protect the interests of investors, not to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. So it's proposed that the money that could be collected from former managers and owners of banks that decided to withdraw money from banks and banks would have to go to creditors of the first and fourth lines of debt in proportion to debt. So the investors, although hypothetically, still had the hope of getting any compensation at the level of the Guarantee Fund. But Mr. Ivanchuk suggests that an amendment be made that allows investors to receive nothing because investors and other creditors of banks over 200,000 will be able to receive their funds in the amount that will come from those who have led the bank to bankruptcy after full compliance with the Fund’s deposit guarantee requirements. And these are the billions of dollars that the fund borrowed from the Ministry of Finance and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u134	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u135	Dear friends, distinguished speakers, we have a schedule of payments. The first line is the investors. Second turn. The third line is the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which paid off the first round of this money by taking it into the budget. And only in the fourth row, the next is the investors who lost more than 200,000 dollars. 200,000 states have returned, all the more is the fourth turn. Therefore, we do not consider it appropriate to jump on a particular occasion, a third where the sole interests of the state budget of Ukraine are foreseen. When the money that the state has spent on the payment of 200,000 to each investor is spent, the sum of more than 200,000 dollars will be repaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u136	I'll bet you 267 votes. It's an editorial committee. Puts to the vote in the committee's agenda for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:38:56]] For 275 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 315 correct, Ivanchuk. Dubinsky Alexander Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u137	Amendment 315 refers to the reverse operation of the law in time. In particular, it is established by this amendment that the provisions of this law regarding the identification of decisions, actions and omissions of persons who have taken part in the management of the bank and the conduct of acts or omissions and have obtained property consent apply to the insolvent bank or bank on which the decision has been taken, the procedure for withdrawing the bank licence to grant or acquire validity of the law. This directly violates article 58 of the Constitution because the Constitution provides that laws and other normative acts have no reverse effect at a time other than when they soften or invalidate a person’s responsibility. One more time, I'm going to add that this Supreme Council has become just a record of violations of the Constitution, along with the President and the leadership of the Servant of the People faction. Let's do it again, respect the Basic Law. With Constitution Day, my friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u138	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u139	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, I have asked for a comment on why? Because it's already such a, you know, worldview thing. The Law does not really have a reverse force. But we do understand that the Bancopad has happened before we adopt this bill today, and we accept it in order to resolve the issues that have arisen before. So we're distributing the work of this bill and the right to apply this bill from today, it has no reverse power. And it's a distortion of facts, we haven't violated any Constitution. And please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u140	I'll bet you 315 votes. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:41:26]] For 287 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the mechanisms for withdrawing banks from the market and meeting the requirements of the creditors of these banks (registration No. 4546). Please support and vote. [[11:42:12]] For 256 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next question is the draft Act amending article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the acquisition by the Civil Prosecutor Status Guarantee Fund (registration number 4547). The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement, Jácik Yulia Grigorovna, is invited to attend. Nobody insists on anything? What, the Gethmans? You're reacting somehow. Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich. What's for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a second amendment, which was considered by the committee, for confirmation. I want to explain the essence of this law. The thing is, when the bank stops, the bank that's in a criminal case may not be, and the same law, it's small, it's called for the Investment Guarantee Fund to act in criminal proceedings and protect their interests accordingly. This is a violation of the guarantee fund's authority. I'm asking her not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u142	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I want you to understand, for starters, that's a little bit out of line with the position of head of the committee because of what's been sounded. The Deposit Guarantee Fund, as the bank manager, represents the interests of the bank in criminal conduct. Therefore, it is impossible for him to identify himself as representing the interests and the accused, a bank person who is being eliminated, who is a criminal figure; and the victims ’ representatives. He cannot represent the interests of both the accused and the victims, claiming a civil suit, all the more so. My right was to give the injured person the right to either represent his own interests or to delegate it to the bank. Therefore, the committee unanimously supported this amendment, but our international partners insist on its rejection, so please think and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u144	It's the vote number two, it's been counted by the committee, you've just heard from the committee. Please vote. Stand by for confirmation, please vote. [[11:45:17]] For 226 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the 128 Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the features of the acquisition by the Fund of Guaranteeing the Contributions of Individuals of Civil Prosecutor Status (registration No. 4547). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:46:27]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on specific issues of connection to the gas transport or gas distribution system. The chairman of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Puppy? How many rights do you have? Are you going to insist on all that there is? Okay. Is anyone else going to insist? Just Kucherenko. 3 redundancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u145	Mr. Head, I'd like four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u146	Four minutes, please give Alexia Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, in my statement, I would like to explain my position both personally and our faction, why we do not support this bill and what is actually going on in the so-called electricity market. Well, first of all, essentially this bill. Despite its powerful name, it in no way represents the interests of consumers; it provides solely for the interests of gas market monopolies. His primary initiators were NAC Naftogaz, our most important monopoly, and so-called independent GTS operator, who is also stockpiling a lot of problems today. It's been announced that it's a simplification of the mechanism of accession, but in fact all these issues and solutions are being paid to a corrupt body called the NCRECR, which has to regulate this very corrupt field of activity by its codes, and it's definitely not for the benefit of consumers. I can explain to you how regulation takes place on a simple example. When this winter was the so-called gas crisis and the government was forced to set the price of the gas balance and give 90 deferred payments, for these imbalances as a result of 10 billion dollars of damage was imposed on the GTS operator, and now he's going to shed tears about why he got this kind of damage. And I want to ask the GTS operator, and I want to ask the National Regulatory Commission, where were you when you made those decisions? I can continue to explain to you about the technical details, but now a few words about the so-called gas market. Would you please tell the honourable government, the honourable deputies of the coalition, Mr. President, how much can you be fooling the people with this so-called gas market? You told us six months ago that this is the brightest reform of the gas market. Now, look, when the price of gas went up in the winter, it was immediately discovered that there was no market, it was immediately discovered that there was no market to collect further advice from the President, and we were set a market price, but in the President’s office, it was equal to six ounces of 99 copies. One day we were working on the end of the heating season, and they had accumulated a huge amount of billions of debt, which, by the way, friends, we're going to be cheating and restructuring with you literally in a week. But what I want to ask you, my friends, is that we write well, we restructure these old debts, and you realize that it's going to be exactly six months of the new heating season -- and with your new market prices for debt gas, they're going to catch up with the old ones, and they're going to be billions? Do you realize that while we're fooling each other with a gas market, while we're putting high prices on gas, we're not going to have any market relations? And no database, no Data Hub, will secure this market as long as there is a NAC monopoly on Naftogaz Ukraine. So thesis first: only the liquidation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine will allow Ukrainians to expect their gas, Ukrainian, at a fair price rather than a market price. And that's what this bill of authors led by Timoshenko 4680 is about setting a fair price for gas. That's why we have to vote, dear Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u148	We can't vote on the drafts, can we? Let's go to the vote for the law. Take your seats, please. Did you cross, the faction has already changed a colleague? Thank you. Ready? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on specific issues of connection to the gas transport or gas distribution system (registration No. 4578-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:52:21]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Payment Services Act (this is the second reading). Please welcome to the rostrum the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna. Is someone going to insist on the papers? I see, Mezenceva, Vasilchenko. Please, Galina Ivanovna, if possible, in writing, what you will insist on. Mesentz. Maria Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, this should be the maximum right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u150	The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u151	27th, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u152	27th?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u153	Can I turn it on first?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u154	No, you can't. The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u155	Twenty-seven. Dear colleagues, we bring in concepts like equating. This is the commission's payment, which is 2-3 percent in Ukraine, while our neighbours in Europe have 02-0.3. We were approached by over 300,000 entrepreneurs, about 90 organizations. Each day more than 20 million dollars are washed from entrepreneurs. You and I have offered to lower these bets. The committee agreed to lower the interchange rate by its committee decision. Colleagues, please support this amendment so that we can set fair wages when we pay with a card, a phone, and so on. On each check, 2-3 percent pays off the business. Please, full mobilization, vote in favour!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u156	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u157	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Full mobilization, you can't let that happen. Because you know that we have 11 million pensioners, very many social workers who have a social security card. They're teachers, they're our teachers, they're our doctors, they're gonna pay for it in their pocket. Each terminal will cost a great deal of money to install: about $10,000. That's the first one. The other one. Then in cash, the money transfer is going to be interest. Keeping one card will amount to 3,000 bracelets a month for a teacher. Don't do that, because we're going to lose cash in our state, and we're going to have our teachers and our doctors pay for the cards that they're now serving for free. Don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u158	I'm betting on the vote number 27 of Mesenitz. The committee is not supported. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. Take into account. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:19]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Mesencheva, next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u159	Mr. Head, next number 31. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues from the Tax Committee, you have made a decision on February 3, 20, that is, given the decline of the Interchange rate, 75 percent of the Equating formula will be reduced according to the European Rules. Now the signed memo, but from tomorrow it won't work. Friends, we all promised business to improve business conditions, so payment systems should go down. This has nothing to do with pensions, social security payments, and so on. There are two payment systems: commercial banks and the NBA. I'm asking you very much, it's okay with them. The committee agreed. The committee's decision is being falsified. Colleagues, we have to stand up for Ukrainian business during the pandemic. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u160	I bet. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u161	As far as falsifying the committee's decision is concerned, Maria, I completely disagree with you. The committee did not take these amendments into account at its meeting, so there is no need to manipulate them. That's the first one. The other one. The cost of the POS terminal will now be $30,000 for your pink ruble, and in your buffet you'll be running and shooting cash now on Gruszewski. Please do not allow such manipulations, and never in the European Union or in the United States have these costs reached the end of the consumer; they have been used by the retailers; no billions have come to the people. So we don't have to manipulate, we had a committee decision, but now it's open on the Antimonopoly Committee, and the legislator has no right to interfere with the regulation of prices and tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u162	I'll bet you vote number 31. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:01]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Are you insisting on anything else, Maria Sergiyevna?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u163	Let's try it without evening, without the notion of interchange.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u164	The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u165	234th. Let's talk, colleagues, about money, let's talk about a refinancing that can get a business. That's over 40 billion dollars over the next five years. It's very simple to settle rates so that we can go to the European Rules in total. Interchange is 75 percent of the formula 0.2-0.3 percent and the total payment up to 1 percent by 2023. Colleagues, let's reject the concept of equalization and interchange, let's vote for bets. The committee agreed to this decision on an interchange basis and did not take it into account. One vote, one vote was not enough for the committee to vote. Let's throw away all the manipulations, the Ukrainian business is looking for everyone who's voting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u166	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u167	Doctors, teachers, students, pensioners are looking for everyone who is currently voting for canceling their free cash withdrawal terminals, remittances, and everything that now applies to payment services. The whole social sphere is looking at you. The tariffs will go up to 3,000 dollars a month. Setting up a terminal for pink snails is going to be 10,000 or 30,000 euros and its certification. Please don't vote for what's ruining the cache in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u168	I'll bet you 234 votes. [[Noise of Halls]] Don't shout. 234 Committee revisions are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:21]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u169	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Amendment number 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, this is a continuation of the same amendments that apply to equairing and interchange. In particular, the 10th amendment defines the very concept of equating. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u171	I'm betting on the vote number 10. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:30:56.]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 28th. Or maybe we're just voting, Galina Ivanovna, editing, every single one? Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u172	The 28th Amendment on the following thing: that the commission fee for the services of the Equating Institution is the fee that the recipient pays for the equivalent of each cash-free transaction using payment cards, which includes: the commission fee of the Equiair, the commission fee of the Interchange, the commission fee of the payment system, and the commission fee of the payment infrastructure operator. It's the same thing as the last one, it's the technical one, it's the definition of the concept. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u173	I'll bet 28 votes. Please identify and vote. [[12:32:04]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 229th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, this amendment is actually very important. It refers to setting limits that cannot be set above for equaling and interchange. In order for this not to happen immediately, there is a progressive mechanism for moving to the right rates for three years, which is the 21st, 22nd, 23rd years. This is about the same maximum bets that business is asking of us. More than 300,000 entrepreneurs from all over Ukraine addressed dozens of letters that came to members of the tax committee, generally to the secretariat of the committee, is the position of all professional associations of entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is a great request to support, vote on, this amendment, so that we can ensure the proper conditions for business development, especially for small and medium -sized businesses, which have already suffered during the coronavirus pandemic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u175	I'm betting on a vote of 229. Please identify and vote. [[12:33:31]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 398.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u176	The following are my amendments to the same question so that we, as parliamentarians, can ensure proper business conditions and make concessions and treat our entrepreneurs with understanding. Once again, more than 300,000 entrepreneurs have asked us to uphold these standards. And my colleague from the Parliament, Maria Mezenceva, has already raised similar rights, they apply to the same thing, that is to say, setting maximum rates of equalization and interchange. For everyone in plain language, it's the commission's payment on each calculation with a card so that entrepreneurs can work more effectively and distribute the network and stimulate development in general without cash. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u177	I'm betting on a vote of 398. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:56]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 431 axle.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that everywhere in the European Union and in our neighbouring countries, these rates are up to 0.2 percent. We have 2-3 percent in Ukraine. It's actually more or less. Therefore, I am asked to support my adjustments and to meet our business. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u179	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u180	Dear Mrs. Galino, we don't have precedents when the National Bank regulates any bets, they're regulated in a competitive way. So the subcommittee and the committee did not support your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u181	I'll bet you 431 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:05]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 434 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, you know that even the corresponding memorandum has been signed, or the regulator has admitted that we actually have pretty high stakes and we need to lower them. I agree with you, Mrs. Olu, that, yes, we need to do everything in the market, ensure that we have the right mechanisms to regulate the market. But when this monopoly goes on and our business suffers, we have to ensure proper conditions, competitive conditions for business development in Ukraine. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u183	I'll bet 434 straight. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:05]] For-64 Amendment 444.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I still have two papers: 444 and 449. Asking them to support them. These amendments apply to ensuring that our business is properly developed. Once again, more than 300,000 entrepreneurs from all over Ukraine have contacted us, committee members, the committee secretariat with relevant letters to support the reduction of the rates of equity and interchange. In order for business in Ukraine to develop properly, so that we have incentives to develop payment cards and more and more people are using cashless services. So please put to the vote and support 444th and 449th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u185	You can both put it to a vote, right? 444 axles. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:37]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 449 requisitions. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:55]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 231. Marianne and then Mezenceva again. What's the big deal? Then we go to the vote. Nobody insists anymore? Zablock, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, there is a law in place in the EU that the commission in the POS terminals cannot be more than 0.2 percent. My only one-in-one revision is a copy of this rule. Why did the EU impose such restrictions? Because there's a Visa and MasterCard monopoly on the market, and they set up a commission in Ukraine at one and a half percent and collect 11 billion dollars a year. It doesn't cost to operate an online payment system in Ukraine in POS terminals $350 million a year. Now even a small shopkeeper pays for serving a POS terminal on average 10 times more than for cash incursions. It doesn't make any sense. Therefore, I would simply like to support a standard similar to that of the EU with a similar restriction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u187	I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on 231 votes, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:34]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Mesentz. What's the big deal? The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u188	446, Mr. Head. Thank you. My colleagues, look, I'm in the hands of a committee decision, and I've been accused of misinformation. End point: To set the limits of the commission of interchange rewards before considering the bill in the second reading. Signed by the committee head. I get it, everybody's very tired, they want to get through all this stuff quickly. Look, we had a chance since October to consider our bill. It wasn't done. We had a chance on the committee to accept oral correction. One vote was not enough, it was not done. Now my proposal remains at another level: to send this bill back to the second, to execute this decision of the committee and to establish justice for the business that has now suffered the most in cadaver mode, which is paying taxes. This is a request from me as the author of the rights, which was filed by 45 national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u189	I'll bet you 446 votes. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:01]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance in the second reading and in general. Please take your seats. In the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Payment Services (Registration No. 4364). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:42:48]] For 241 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the obligation to use liquid biofuels (biocomponents) in the transport sector. Needed Discussion? Will anyone insist on the papers? No, it's not. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[12:43:44]] For 239. Decision taken. Needed Discussion? Please welcome the Deputy Head of the Committee on Energy and Housing and Utilities, Seminski Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u190	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Re-reading the draft Law amending certain legislation on the obligation to use liquid biofuels in the field of transport No. 696 of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services at its meeting on 29 October 20th, the Committee on Energy and Housing reviewed the revised draft law. The project envisages the implementation of regulation 28 of the European Parliament and of the Council Directives of 23 April 2009 on the encouragement and use of renewable energy in part of Ukraine's international commitment to the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption in transport, which Ukraine has undertaken with its accession to the Energy Community. I have to point out that 90 percent of the gasoline in Europe is already with bioethanol. This is a long-standing practice in the European Union. During the drafting of the bill, a small number of rights were introduced to the text, which are in principle and significantly improve the previous edition, namely, that the time when a legally binding portion of the liquid fuel content in the range of petrol is deferred until May 1, 2022. The other one. The project excludes the need for a step - by - step increase in the legally binding portion of liquid biofuel content, as well as a reduction in fines. I would like to point out that, for example, the situation with Belarus, the gas situation, has shown that 5 percent, for these small 5 percent, we can already be independent of Russian and Belarusian fuels. That's a small percentage, but. The next question is what is the full-scale launch of the bioethanol industry. We have a wide record of fertility. This year will be as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u191	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Have a seat, please. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u192	Anton Polyakov, Chernigovishte. Dear colleagues, Victor Yanukovitch’s schemes are coming back with the same deputies who just spoke from this rostrum. I'm sorry he was elected to the 205th District of Chernigiv. Why should the Ukrainians expect this bill? The first is fuel exploration, because these supplements are going to cost a lot of money. That is, lobbying the interests of alcoholics. All Ukrainians who have cars, but not new ones, should prepare for repairs because not all engines are designed to work on this type of fuel. I'm also going to talk about how you're going to try to start your car in winter. And the fuel costs are going to go up one and a half times, and they're saying it's an ecology. And what's the business going to be? Business is looking forward to checks and fines, unfounded fines that they somehow try to reduce again in this bill. What are they referring to? That this is an experience of the EU. However, EU members guarantee the preservation of traditional oil supplies for unadapted vehicles, and the requirement for a mandatory standard is not at risk of fines in the EU. There's no such thing as a lie, Oleg Valeriyovich. Why are you lying? Then, ecologically. When such fuel is obtained and further burned, it is associated with the atmosphere. the use of plant production. When an alternative fuel is used, it reduces the toxicity of the exhaust, but it's more used, this time. And the presence of toxic aldehydes in exhaust gases makes far-reaching conclusions about the environmental safety of alcohol fuel. It's a lie again. Oleg Valeriyovich, if you're lobbying to sell your Toyota in your car dealership, new or alcoholics who don't know where their alcohol is, you don't have to put these bills here that affect the well-being and the spending of our Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u193	No last name. Bragar. [[B in m in s a l in]] Maybe he meant Easy. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich. His last name wasn't on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Gerus Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u195	Seminian Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u196	They gave me their word, Dmitri Alexanderovich, and they gave me their word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u197	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, this bill is important for the development of the Ukrainian agricultural sector, because today we have a lot of agrarian enterprises that can easily produce bioethanol. And for that, we create a market. In the amended bill, we predicted that in the first year, only 3 percent, in the second year, 4 percent, and then up to 5 percent would be bioethanol. This means that all cars will ride in total peace, which means that this practice exists in Europe today. And we got a letter from the Energy Community that this bill fits European practice. In addition, the relevant bill will have a positive impact on ecology. Take, for example, the city of Kiev. The main dumps in Kiev are actually from cars, from car fuel. If we have the same amount of bioethanol in our fuel, it will reduce emissions and it will improve the environmental situation. So I have a request to support the relevant bill in the first reading, and we will continue to deal with the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u199	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u200	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the success of European countries is not only linked to the promotion of energy efficiency, but also to the close cooperation of farmers and transporters in European countries. We are the only country in the world that has such colossal advantages over other countries. We have 25 percent of the black people. Today, we are a country that exports raw materials. Six of us on wheat, export raw materials, third of us on corn. Imagine if part of this product were to be processed in Ukraine. It's investments, it's jobs and it's colleagues, first of all added value, it's a budget. It's an increase in wages, it's an increase in pensions and social standards. Only 20 percent of corn if processed, colleagues, we'll get up to 8 billion a year. But there is, of course, a problem: Other countries have moved on, they're already introducing second generation bioethanol, which is made of agricultural waste. And here we can be the first, because we have a huge amount of waste from any grain or other food group. I want to point out that FAO has addressed those countries that are signatories to the directive. They asked for less land to be used for industrial goods, or goods, that continue to go into industry because of the threat of food security. But we have a chance, colleagues, to move into the second generation and directly introduce these possibilities for Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u201	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Is there a motive that no one wants? I see Susun. Then let's move on to. I see the Bondar. Then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u202	Thank you, Your Honor. My dear colleagues are certainly very curious about how they voted in the hall for this bill, because it is a direct requirement of European Union standards. I've heard so much that we're moving in this direction, from the word "go." We're not going to be able to do that. Clearly, then, the laws that improve our country’s ecosystem today and have a positive impact on our nature will be supported by our faction, but we vote for health in order to actually preserve nature and reduce pollution. But I'm curious about how the Euro-Integrators will vote, because one thing is to talk about Europe, the other thing is to vote for it, and absolutely the third thing is whether we're needed in Europe. So let's see what you're getting out of and how you vote for it. And, dear colleagues, I certainly understand, you know, you can marry, you can make suggestions, but you know in life that it comes out when the other side wants to. I mean, with these Euro-Integrations and naturizations, be very careful, because it can come out so much that everyone will run away from us, that NATO will run away, along with the bloc, and the European Union. So we need to be worthy, we need to get out of our own interests, maybe cynical, maybe pragmatic, but a hundred percent national, not nationalistic, but national. And then, believe me, the bill will collect 300 votes, no matter where we go: West or Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u203	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u204	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. In terms of limited time, I will briefly give four key arguments why this bill needs to be supported. First. Ukraine has stated that we are joining the European Green Course. We cannot talk about joining the European Green Course nor vote in favour of this law. The other one. This is convenient for Ukrainian agriculture. Ukraine now occupies 13 percent of the world’s grain market. This market can develop here in Ukraine, and we need to contribute to it, including by this law. The third argument is energy independence. Today, Ukraine imports 62 percent of gasoline. If we can at least partially reduce this imports, it will be a victory for Ukraine and our energy independence. And the fourth point, which is strangely supported by colleagues from the Opposition Platform for Life, is a step towards Ukraine's European integration. It's really a test of how ready we are to work in this direction. Please be supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u205	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u206	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Apologies for the voice, the wheezing, yesterday to the last, hurting for our congregation. In fact, you've heard all the benefits of this law, and "European Solidarity" will support it. I'll tell you who won't support him. It will not be supported only by those who were comfortable pulling fuel from Belarus, from the Russian Federation, to explore it here, in Ukraine. So for ecology, for energy security, for jobs and for agriculture, we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u207	Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u208	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we certainly need to support this bill, we need to go to Europe, as we say, but we need to start our businesses. I've stated on several occasions from the rostrum about the Lynos company in the Luhansk region, which "massodont" was built under it by the whole of Lysichansk. And it's in the hands of the Russian oligarchs. Please tell me, when will it return to the hands of Ukraine and when will it begin to work? Today, colleagues spoke for processing their own flour, in their own country. Please tell me, when will the 2070 Investment and Economic Zone Bill of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions be put in place? When are we going to involve investors and give a state guarantee to an investor that they won't leave their money invested in our state? We need to make decisions now. Call on every faction of national MPs who will participate in this commission and decide on the issue of investment in Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u209	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the obligation to use liquid biofuels (biocomponents) in the transport sector (register No. 3356-d). Please support and vote. [[12:59:30]] For 293 Decision taken. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition by shareholders of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine as a participant in the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Individuals (registration number 5542). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[13:00:16]] For 249 Decision taken. Deputy Finance Minister Draganchuk Yuri Olegovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u210	Good afternoon, distinguished nationals! I am pleased to present Bill No. 5542, which aims to join the Savings System to guarantee the contributions of natural persons, as well as the dissemination of legislatively defined mechanisms to guarantee the contributions of individuals to the bank. This will make the bank a full participant in the deposit guarantee system. This will also enable the overall strengthening of the deposit guarantee system at the expense of the participating State bank and the availability of sufficient financial resources to ensure payment to investors. The Bank’s draft law provides for special, softer, terms of entry into the fund, namely, a smaller initial assembly of 1 percent of the regulatory capital, as well as a three - year transitional period for the payment of regulatory assemblies at the base level. The bank’s accession to the fund is a prerequisite for continued active cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development regarding its participation in the Bank’s capital and the fulfilment of its obligations to the IMF. I'm convinced that the adoption of the law will set up a market mechanism for bank work, level conditions with other market participants, and also make the bank more attractive to investors. Thank you for your attention. And I look forward to supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u211	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. Four minutes both from the author of the bill and from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, what is happening today in our nation's deposit market? Despite the crisis, you and I see that deposits increased by 200 billion in the 20th year. Despite the crisis, we see that the banking system is unprecedentedly stable. And for the first time in our long-term history in three years, only three banks have been declared insolvent, and banks that don't matter much to the banking system as a whole. The banking system is profitable: in the 19th year, 60 billion, in the 20th year, 41 billion, and in the 21st year, 17 billion dollars, the banking system was profitable. And that means that people start trusting the banking system, people start taking money to banks. But, of course, the state has to take a step to get people to make sure that this money is secured, so that people can be sure that they'll return the money in any case, even in the event of liquidation, don't bring God to the bank where they put their money. To date, according to the law, only 200,000 dollars are returned for each contribution. But for today we propose to increase this amount -- what voters ask us to do -- to 400,000 first, and then to 600,000 dollars. And this bill, an alternative bill to the Kabmin bill, is primarily about this. Yes, indeed, it is about the return of Savings to the deposit guarantee system. It is also about the smoothness of this process of including Savings in the deposit guarantee system. It's also about the introduction of a stress-testing system to guarantee the investments of natural persons, and the special settlement mechanisms for the payment of the bills issued by the Deposit Guarantee Fund in 2015-2016 in exchange for the VAT bond. But first of all, it's about raising guarantee amounts, first of all it's about deposits and it's about developing our economy, because it's business deposits that have to get credit resources, credit resources that are unprecedentedly cheap today, despite the crisis, 7 and 9 percent -- the average lending rate. The credit resources that our economy so needs. And you and I, as a team, both the authorities and the opposition, have done a lot to lower the lending rates to satisfy our economy with money. The committee therefore decided to support an alternative bill, recommending that the Supreme Council support an alternative bill on the basis. This decision was also supported, by the way, by the National Bank. And allow the committee to redraft this bill for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u213	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u214	Luhanskina, the trust MP. Dear colleagues, we will support this bill because there can be no privileged banks, and we have five state banks in the country. We remember the collapse of the entire banking system during the eight years of the war, as people were affected by bank robberies. Many have not received their contributions, except for 200,000 dollars. And there shouldn't be pyramids that are built on the bones and blood of the ordinary citizen, which are being poisoned today by crazy percentages, and then people run to us in the reception room and say "help" through banking associations, through financial companies, inflatable soap bubbles. So in this case, I ask everyone today to support this bill. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u215	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u216	The Southern Nina Petrovni please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u217	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, first of all, thank you for acknowledging that the previous authorities have maintained a banking system that endures today's excessive financial crisis in our country. So we really have to make sure that the banking system remains transparent and firm. But right now, I want to address all Ukrainians first. With the state's proposal to cancel the State's guarantee of the contributions of natural persons to the Savings, I would like to point out that today's Savings is profitable, and on the committee we've been dealing with this issue. I'd like you all to remember this figure: In 2020 Savings received a plus 2.8 billion dollars, at a time when a number of state-owned enterprises are almost on the verge of bankruptcy. Yes, Ukrenergo's losses amounted to over 27 billion, Naftogaz to 18 billion, Ukrennergo to nearly 12 billion, Energoat to 5 billion, and so on. What, though, is happening to the Redeemer? We know today that Savings Bank is the only bank in Ukraine, where 100 percent of individuals' deposits, Mr. Sergei, are guaranteed by the state. We have guaranteed the contributions of individuals. By the way, do you know how many deposits now in the Savings? Seven million citizens spent 125 billion dollars. Where do you want to put it now? If Sázbańk becomes a member of the Deposit Guarantee Fund now, then this "gold paper" that they've turned into this bill, that the guarantee will go up to 4 and up to 600, you're putting so many people into conditions where they can never stand up for their rights and get as many as 200,000 dollars. It's an island that has preserved the ability of individuals who can't then fight the state and demand their investments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u219	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u220	I refer to the drafters of the bill, to the government. I'm the one who's listening to the government talk, and it's like the other way around, you're advertising commercial banks that are calm in market conditions. So wait, and on what terms do they get the profits? They get seven, up to eight percent, under eight percent, they buy DWPs under 12 percent guaranteed. But that's how you can live. Is that what you're asking me to do, and you're asking me to run Savings? The other one. Please tell me there's a savings department in every village today. Will it be the Savings Division after what you now propose to do with it? You're not saying you're cooking it under privatization, are you? I want to see where the savings department will be after that. It's a social decision that you're making right now. You're actually taking the last chance from the citizens who, after the "bankopad," all of them were massively carrying money to the Savings Bank. You guaranteed them the return of their deposits. Take a look at what these are basically investments. These are the people who are the least secure, these are the people who are most vulnerable, you're taking away their last chance to have a guarantee. Then you actually put them into the Deposit Guarantee Fund, where from Savings you have to count the crazy costs as a percentage of the service, then you close the last compartment -- and you can put a dot on the Saving. We're going to get one more, 150th bank that's going to be sitting on the DWP instead of lending business, lending to citizens. Specially, we did it as a guarantee bank that can't outstrip anyone. That is why savings were increasing, and that is why pensioners took the last one to Savings. Our faction will not vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u221	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u222	The Ukrainians, the president, the speaker behind the same rostrum, the national deputies who adopted the Constitution, welcomed each other and welcomed the celebration of the Basic Law. But if you vote on this bill, it's going to be another spit in the same constitution. Because, according to the Constitution, you can't narrow down the rights of people who were other, according to other normative instruments, I mean, laws. Do you remember the story with Judge Chaus? Despite the controversialness of his figure in Ukrainian justice, the way that money is stored in banks after this bill is passed will be safer for Ukrainians than for government banks. A person spent his whole life collecting from retirement, making up for his grandchildren, saving 300,000 dollars for his children. Could she have saved 300,000 dollars a lifetime and put it in Savings? She could. And you propose to issue six months from the date of approval of this bill to a maximum of 200. It's just an alternative bill that goes later, and, I take it that's not going to happen, it's going to go up to 400, maybe up to 600. No, no, not again! No, no restrictions on Ukrainian rights! People have to be sure that we can keep money in our Ukrainian banks, not in US dollars, not in Europeans, you don't know there, the euro, and not in some yen. The adoption of such bills undermines Ukrainian confidence in our banking system. Our group won't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u223	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u224	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, from the very beginning, when I started reading the bill that the government passed, I didn't just believe my eyes that it was so possible that that really that bank of state, where people were carrying blood money, would stop giving them the opportunity to get all the money and guarantee the sum of their investments. But at the same time, let's be honest: the norm that was, it was exclusively eloquent. So I think that the alternative bill that was drafted by the committee is compromised, and I support, not just for one Saving Bank, but for all banks in Ukraine, the sum should be increased to at least 400 to 600,000 dollars, for all investors. That'll be fair. So let's support the alternative bill. I think that by the second reading, we're going to work out a compromise that will allow every Ukrainian citizen to understand that his sums, which he's made honestly, all the money will be safe, they'll be guaranteed, including those legislative instruments that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u225	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, what is this law about? We have four state banks in our country, and there's only one bill of which has a complete lack of collateral for its deposits -- that's the Savings. If we open the law, it clearly states that they are not provided with any budget assignment. What is this about? About the fact that, God forbid, Redemption will fall, people won't get a penny of money. And it's this law that puts them into normal competitive conditions so that people have a guarantee of their deposits, as it happens in Privatbank, as it does in other banks. So this bill, it's right, and it's right that we're finally almost 10 years from now raising thresholds for people to get, not 200,000 from other banks, but 400 and 600. That's why we're going to support this bill, it's primarily aimed at protecting people and investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u227	Burmich? Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, honourable people of Ukraine, if we vote in favour of this law, we will vote in favour of removing the state from compensating investors for their possible losses. And I can see in what's going on in the next affair is the robbery of the Redemption. The 126 billion that are today can be stolen, and the state compensates only 200,000 each. It's the only bank people trust today. You can't prepare this affair. This is an affair against Ukrainian citizens, against those who take their last one to the bank with the hope of receiving any funds. You can't let that happen. We will not vote for this and I call on you. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition by the National Savings Bank of Ukraine of the status of a member of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Individuals (registration No. 5542-1). Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition by the National Savings Bank of Ukraine of the status of a member of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Individuals (registration No. 5542-1). Please vote. [[13:19:54]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft law. Mesentz's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u230	Thank you, Mr. Head. There is a proposal through consensus of all factions of the Ukrainian Parliament to put to the vote without discussion in the first reading bill 4554 on the safety of children's diet, historical, Euro-integration. Children who have not yet been born, who have already been born, look forward to it. Many factions are co-authors. Mr. Head, please proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u231	Are you ready for discussion? Then I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of Article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in the field of child nutrition in accordance with the requirements of EU legislation (registration number 4554). Please identify and vote. Excuse me, please support and vote. [[13:21:35]] For 332 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes concerning Guarantees of the Rights of Ukrainian and Foreign Investors (Registration No. 5141, 5141-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:22:19]] For 243 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Janchenko Galina Igorovna, is invited to attend. From the authors and from the committee? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u232	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, honourable Ukrainians, your opinion is proposed in Bill No. 5141. This bill was co-sponsored by 70 Ukrainian deputies, one in six who are now in this room. This bill is a long-awaited beginning of the ARMA reform and in the entire asset management system. I am in favour of this reform for a year and a half because of the imperfections of legislation today, both citizens and businesses suffer. It was the National Asset Management and Search Agency that turned into a corrupt lock and a raider. The raiders even came up with this expression: "get through the Armah." This is unacceptable for a government body that has been created to fight corruption. Let me just remind you of the last few cases that caused a huge scandal, although the ARMA continues to multiply them in geometric progress. This is the story of how the ARMA sold the land to Ashan, 27 hectares in the Odessa region, 20 times cheaper than an investor paid for this land. Or another story: about how the ARMA "snatched" the cheats $400,000 under a false court order. And that's what the government does. This is the kind of action that led to searches by the D.B.I. So I have a question: Why was such an organ created and should it be reformed? Dear colleagues, the key norm of this bill is to ban the sale of assets before the court's judgment. Today there is a consensus among all business associations, among the judicial community, the legal community. We discussed this bill at the Ministry of Justice, and there we are also ready to support such an initiative. So I also urge you to support this bill, to vote in favour of improving the investment climate. From the committee, I would like to add that at its meeting on June 8, 2021, the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include draft Law registration number 5141 in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly and the outcome of the first reading to accept it as a basis. Thank you. And I ask your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u233	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Radina Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u234	Good afternoon, dear fellows! There is no question and no doubt that the ARMA (the agency for managing assets derived from corruption and other crimes) needs reform. It may be supported by any of the bills that are now being proposed to you so that we can start this reform. But I very much ask you, colleagues, for the second reading of the ARMA reform we have to do two important things together and solve two problems. First. Colleagues, in order for the ARMA to actually work, we need to foresee a mechanism whereby assets that cannot be effectively managed that cannot be sold would not, in principle, be transferred to the ARM. Otherwise, the body is destined to be at the center of corruption scandals for a long time. And the second. Colleagues, we discussed this on the committee and the Ministry of Justice insisted: there must be a chance to sell property before the court's verdict, the Ministry of Justice here, to sell property that needs considerable cost to sustain it. Property that is not only quickly corrupting but quickly depreciated is the property of the court’s decision. But before the court's verdict, we have to predict the possibility of selling. Otherwise, colleagues, if we don't see this coming, we're going to create an additional problem, which is that all taxpayers, we're going to have to pay you and me either for preserving doubtful property, or we're going to have to pay compensation for non-preservation of this property as decided by the European Court of Human Rights. And by now 5 million euros have to be paid for. Please, colleagues, pay attention to these revisions to the second reading and allow for a truly quality reform of the ARMA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u235	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u236	Please give it to Lubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u237	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of Bill 5141. We think it's absolutely right that the sale of the property under arrest can only take place by decision of the court. And these are the differences between the alternative and the basic bills. Therefore, we support the logic that must be given to the judgment of a court of law. And only after that is possible is the sale of such property. We therefore believe that the reform of the ARMA must be implemented. We're going to have an amendment to the second reading. I pay attention to the National Deputies that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has made its remarks on both bills. But in our view, the basic bill is more logical, more structured. And we urge the entire Parliament to vote in favour of 5,141. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u239	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u240	Pass it to Jurchino, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u241	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u242	Yes, colleagues, too, there is no doubt that we need to improve the work of the agency with the management of confiscated and arrested assets. Sadly, though, the basic bill contains a number of essential lacunas that prevent us from supporting it in the first reading. From this point of view, the alternative bill looks much more prepared. In particular, the price of the asset transferred to the ARMA administration rises unreasonably more than twice. Thus, only after 1 million dollars of property or assets will be transferred to the ARMA administration. In fact, anything up to this amount will not be managed by the state and will not bring money into the budget. There are also a number of gaps. For example, there are other forms of control that are not specified. That's also what the Ministry of Justice concludes, and actually, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. So it would actually be more appropriate to support, in our opinion, an alternative bill that does not contain such a gap, but contains substantial qualitative improvements, such as asset management, that is, adoption of the management plan before the actual transfer and start of the management process. Of course, we need to find an adequate balance between the interests of business and the interests of the state. Let me remind you that the agency's main task is to manage the assets that are subject to court charges. Both laws and laws provide for the administration after the decision of the court and final decisions in the same way in court. So it's important to support a better alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u243	Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u244	Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u245	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! And strangely enough, I mentioned, we recently voted in favour of the Public Procurement Act, and we pushed the ARMA there. Now it's ARMA again. But the question is, couldn't all the standards that apply to the activities of the ARMA be considered in that law that has a relationship with it? Then we put the saddle on the cow, and then we demand that it jump, except for the milk. And he can't jump, and he won't give milk. And imagine a situation, such a strange situation. There is suspicion that all of us walk under God, that is, we may walk under suspicion, but there is also the judgment of the court, which is to establish a real guilt, and then there are circumstances regarding the confiscation of property. What is it today? Someone suspected you of this, for example, as long as the PNB imposed sanctions on you temporarily, sanctions are temporary, and property has been taken forever. Then it turned out that the boy was gone, and the property was sold. Uh-uh, that was awkward! Clearly, then, today’s initiative must be supported. Today, we must guarantee, on the one hand, the responsibility of potential corrupters, on the other hand, to protect the rights of owners. Therefore, there can be no final confiscation before the judgment of the court. That's common sense, that's the requirement of the Constitution. Only after the verdict can we talk about confiscation. That's why our faction, despite our opposition, supports the authors' initiative in this case, and that the responsibility is indeed fair, proved by the judgment of the court, and then the confiscation. And as for temporary management, we don't mind, but the responsibility should be with the owners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u247	An alien. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, indeed the ARMA was created a little over 5 years ago, and it was to manage the assets under arrest and fight corruption. And instead of fighting corruption, it led this corruption. And to this day we have this situation where property is sold before the court's decision at artificially underpriced prices through overlays. And as part of the TSC, we've looked at the case over and over again, as Mrs. Galina told us today. And Ashan, a French investor, was raided 200 hectares of land, where they raided 200 million lands and sold 20 times below. A brother’s oilpress factory, which was not returned even after the court’s decision. And there are many other cases that show that a significant amount of authority in the ARMA has led to huge abuses. This bill is very simple, it's reviewing the procedure. And now the ARMA can't sell property without a court order. That is true in all European countries, and that is normal. Besides, of course, the goods that are being damaged or the owner himself agrees to the sale. The owners of the property will be able to render the ARM's own decision to the court on their own, because now it's only the prosecutor's and the court's prerogative. And for months, for years, these decisions have not come to an end. Above all, the court, when deciding whether to transfer assets to the ARM administration, is obliged to clearly determine how such an administration is to be handled — whether to sell or to leave management. Because today, it's not what the court does, but once again, the ARMA makes a manual decision. Therefore, colleagues, the adoption of the bill will allow for greater efficiency in the work of the national agency and increase transparency, and will allow for the real protection of investors and ordinary citizens. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u249	I bet. I see. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u250	Thank you, Mr. Head, for seeing me. Actually, colleagues, it's a legal absurdity to sell property if a person's guilt is not established in a court of law and if this court ruling has not gained legal power. It's illegal and wrong to take property away from a person without being found guilty. Sadly, when the Armah Law was passed, this absurdity was incorporated into this law, and the ARMA was successfully used. All five years of this infirmity have been successfully used by the ARMA. So there's no 5141-1, there's no 5141-1. 5141 and dot! This law must be voted for. And it's not the reform of the ARMA, it's bringing the ARMA into some normal, human, logical legal framework. Yes, to work as a normal state structure, not as a corrupt machine that earns money for itself daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u251	Ustenko Aleksei Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u252	Alexius Ustenko, "Serial of the People" faction. Well, the idea of creating an ARM was certainly good, but "the devil is in detail." In fact, when it's just a hammer that can actually sell any of your property without trial and without investigation. Today we're fighting for every penny of investment, we have to create jobs, because in order for the country to live properly, we have to grow from 5 percent a year or more. And how can we grow and what investor comes to us really when we have a "bowl" that can take your property? In 2015, a weak law that has actually created a structure that has an overriding power, and our authorities are now correcting it. So, colleagues, we vote, we support and we make, in fact, a corrupt body with a "watching institution" a normal organization that will be after the trial and only after the investigation to manage the property. Voting, calling on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-30-m0.u253	All those who wish to speak? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (Registration No. 5141). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:39:16]] For 314 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 222, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 20, "European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherhood" – 17, "The Future Party" – 11, "The Voice" – 2, "The Trust" – 12, "the Non-Factional" – 11. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see you're not, I understand. No, I cut the lines then. Please don't shout, I can hear everything. Your colleagues deny it. Can I show you my finger? Against Radin. Right? And Ivanchuk v., and Jurchishin, and Vote v. Jurchisin, Ustinova. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure on the reduction of half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of Bill 5141. Please support and vote. [[13:41:02]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Protection. No discussion? Then you have a break. I don't want to talk about it. I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 5632) on the annual report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of investors. We're voting on the ruling as a whole, registration number, I repeat, 5632. Please support and vote. [[13:42:01]] For 317 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's been a statement about a real break. Since we have until the end of our working hours, the plenary session is closed until the end of the plenary. The initiators please come forward, and please come forward, Denis Anatoliyovich, you and David Georgiyovich Arahami. Thank you. Good-bye.
