ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! I'm glad to see you at last in the Plenary Hall. We're back to the normal working regime of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register, Your Honor? Ready? Dear colleagues, please prepare to register again. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. I hope everyone remembers that. Ready? Please register. Green, yeah. But you can do anything. [[10:07:22]] There are 251 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the Assembly of the parliamentary factions of the political party "Golos" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the ninth call of 28 December 2020, I report on the election of the head of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Golos" by the national deputy of Ukraine, Železnyak Jaroslav Ivanovic, deputy to the head of the faction-minister of Ukraine, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. Congratulations, colleagues, I wish you success! Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u2	I'm telling you, I'm talking!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u3	Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u4	Please pass the word Rabbiovich Vadim Zinovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u5	Dear friends, I'm not going to tire you out today. I'm just going to tell a story, a story, more specifically, in Ukrainian. You want to hear a story about a great European country where grandmas will receive a decent pension, teachers at least $4,000, a country where hoods and spacious cars; a country where the world's first coronary vaccine was invented, a story about a lot of other amazing wonders that have been lied to us by the green power, but there's no such thing. And now for reality. Let's go back to a country where tariffs cause shock, where assholes don't want to change anything, but they want to continue total looting of the country and its people. And I can tell you a story about the minister of security, the great medicine, about how we're going to be the first to be vaccinated in the world. But reality is different and far sadder. Our country goes on lists after African countries and gets the vaccine, only the leftovers, when they don't know it yet. The reality is that Ukrainian medicine is completely destroyed! This was done to us by Suprun and Stepanov. That is why we must now ask the question of the resignation of both the heads of the MOH and all the government that pose a threat to the existence of the state of Ukraine. And there's more. Today again an attempt will be made to mock the people of Ukraine. Nevertheless, they want to bring Mr. Vitrenk into the government, well-known along with his sharer of Kobolje's giant billion prizes, stolen by Naftogazu and cloudy tariffs. If the Supreme Council votes in favour of Vitrek's appointment, it means that the challenge of the people of Ukraine has been challenged. I'm a supporter of the parliamentary struggle. But I want to say honestly to all the people of Ukraine, if Parliament votes for Vitrek, that means one thing: the people have declared war. And so, according to the People's Constitution, Ukraine belongs to all citizens living in the state, not just a small group that has broken through to the Council on the deception of the people. Last, about the amendment that our faction made to the so-called language law. I urge you to stop bullying people! I'll tell you in a clear language, "You're a fool! Let people speak their own language. You've had it, green buttons! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u6	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, the issue of housing tariffs is one of the main concerns of people in society today. I would like to remind you that in January, there were massive protests throughout the country against rising energy tariffs. And most of all in this situation, it's up to the regulator, the NCRECR, who's agreed to these tariffs. Why did the regulator take action only after the people had gone out and a host of meetings were held? And why did such a situation arise, and it was brought to a boiling point? After protests and numerous meetings and reactions by members of the national parliaments, the government determined the limit price for gas of 6.99 dollars, and the NCREKP reduced the tariff to 1.79 per cubic meter. But the tariff situation is still unresolved, and there are many and many questions. The government must find the resources needed to close the issue of subsidies. And you certainly need to review the standards of gas consumption under subsidies, because since 2016 these standards have decreased from 7 to 4 cubes. For a person who, for example, lives in a rural area and has a house of 70 square feet [70 sq m], and if this person is still single and retired, there is little to decide. We also need to deal with speculation in the gas market. In January, when the market price at Naftogaz was 7,22 per cubic meter, many of the gas stations were buying gas for almost 10 bracelets. So this so-called market relationship is not a market, it's speculation and profit in people in such a difficult situation. As for the ability to change the supplier. It's not that simple: People are threatened with cutting off their gas supply when they switch to another supplier. We have numerous references from various communities, from people from all regions of our country. Hence, there is a need for a response, and the government should even take licences for frauds that permit such violations. And if abuse continues, we need to act decisively, and gas networks need to be taken to the balance of communities. What is more, in most areas, people built these gas networks themselves at their own expense. The Chamber of Deputies has registered Bills 4635 and 4639 on the protection of the rights of natural gas consumers. Many of the problems I just heard are settled. For example, Kabin will be able to determine the maximum supply price and the maximum price for consumers. There is also a question about the last-hop provider. We are ready to support all the bills that will be put into the session hall and will be aimed at costing the population's tariffs on energy. And we urge Parliamentary colleagues to also engage in this work and support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u8	Eugene Nina Petrovna. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u9	Dear Ukrainians, it is obvious that Zelensky lied to you when he promised to cut the tariffs twice a year ago. In reality, only subsidies were halved — from 73 billion to 36 billion dollars. In addition to subsidies, the authorities took into the poorest the electricity tax, under which millions of Ukrainians adjusted their lives. Not surprisingly, the citizens who are shocked by the payments are protesting and covering the roads. So "European Solidarity" offers concrete steps to help people. First. Immediately adopt Bill 4585, which will transfer 7 billion dollars from the financing of the President, his Office and the Force to additional subsidies for the population. The other one. Terminarily approve Decree 4617 in order to refund the premium rate of the first 100 KW of 90 kP acting under the Presidium of Dustenka. This same decision requires the prohibition of the purchase of electricity from the Russian-Belarus energy system and the restoration of at least 55 percent of Ukrainian nuclear energy from the general energy balance of the state. We also warn the authorities against any attempt to return direct Russian gas purchases. In the past, the gas yoke ended in the Harkow Agreements, the loss of Crimea, and the war on Donbas. It's a red line. Another global challenge, because of the power failure, is the complete failure of vaccination. At first, Zelensky’s authorities removed masks from the country before the epidemic, left doctors with no means of personal protection, and patients without oxygen, then failed mass free testing. To this day, he has been stealing medical supplies in terms of insurance and payment. And now Ukraine remains or is not the last in Europe where vaccination has not yet begun, because while other states have ordered a quality vaccine, the Ukrainian authorities have devastated an antiquities fund because of the "great theft" and, as journalists have discovered, have secretly been vaccinated in private clinics. Now Greensky is offering the Ukrainians a Chinese vaccine with an efficiency of about 50 percent, which is purchased through a corrupt scheme with a middleman, while governments around the world are working directly with manufacturers. "European Solidarity" is ready to present a clear strategy that will allow the vaccination in Ukraine to be completed by September, so that, among other things, you have to stop stealing from the antique budget, set up free mass testing, and introduce criminal responsibility for violating the frequency of vaccinations so that, friends of the "quartal" do not receive vaccines instead of pensioners. We will tell you more about our strategy in the coming days. In the end, "European Solidarity" calls for the majority to finally gain courage and create a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the collapse of the Green Secret Operation after the detention of the Wagners, and the treason of the state must be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u10	Urban Anatoly Igorovich Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, a respected Ukrainian community! We're glad we finally got together after more than a month off in our work. The break is prolonged for all of us, especially for people who do not understand the steps of power and certainly expect us to make serious decisions on painful issues. It seems to me, my friends, that the only thing that has agreed to our government today is chaos with tariffs when an ordinary citizen does not understand what payment will be for the heat and how to put it out. It's chaos with vaccinations. Both the public and the internal work of the director of the Ministry of Health regarding the selection of a vaccine provider, public explanations to people when they receive the vaccine. We are definitely late on this issue, unlike many countries in the world. And the movie of the last few days from the B.B.I. with the detention of its own employees doesn't add confidence to our citizens tomorrow. The world dictates many challenges, but are we ready to accept these challenges? I don't know if the government understands what kind of despair people are in today, regardless of where they live, what kind of emotion is being unleashed by thousands and hundreds of thousands of people today. As a major MP and our entire Group for the Future, represented by major MPs representing about 4 million voters, we can give many examples of the critical situation of people in regions that have nothing to pay for, but really don't know how to feed themselves and their families today. I'll give you just one quote from a citizen from the village: "You don't give order, there's gonna be trouble, there's gonna be lies." The same is true with their leaders, because the people are on the verge of breaking up. Think of it and don't think of people as fools, don't live in the Soviet Union. Because that's the impression of listening to the telesavers of our leaders when the whole world is burning in COVID, and we've already won. Without the vaccine they won, without enough oxygen they won. It's like they've supported all the entrepreneurs by 8,000 -- and the economy is saved. Millions of vaccines -- like rain, it's gonna be with masks like a year ago or PLR tests? What kind of international vaccine are you talking about? We want to hear the government's specific answers to these questions. In view of the foregoing, our "For the Future" MP demands that the issue of imposing a moratorium on rising energy tariffs be brought to the fore. Relevant draft Regulation 4609 and draft Decree 4590 on the use of urgent measures aimed at returning the electricity tax to the population in the first 100 kilowatts/hours. And we're also expecting a government-specific compensation mechanism for subsidies for losing people in January of this year. Let us help people to fight poverty rather than condemn people to extinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u12	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, one reckless movement, and you can become a father, a father of great trouble. There is always such a risk for any legislator: we haven't seen it, we haven't assessed the risk -- and we've put an explosion into slow action. But there are laws that don't even set off a bomb, there are laws that make a real bomb. Today we have to consider the draft referendum bill. If it's approved as a valid editor, we're actually allowing the buttons to push the nuclear button. What is wrong with this bill? Apparently, the drafters decided that legislation was too complicated to give to the legislators. If the law is passed, anyone on any ground can change, correct or repeal laws for unknown reasons, under the will of the people. This has been done on a number of occasions, a very old reception that was used by villains and frauds, even on a cosmic scale. Hitler took advantage of this four times by strengthening his authority by justifying aggression and occupation, and the parliament that went to meet him did not choose, and several dozen parliamentarians were shot for Hitler. Legislation is too thin matter, but the Supreme Council has proved to be the only body that is actually separated from the process. Civil organizations, the Central Election Commission, the President, anyone has an impact on the process except the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council has no expertise, the Supreme Council has no impact on the final text of the law, and it turns out that today, if this law is passed, anyone will press the nuclear button using manipulative referendums. Dear colleagues, I've been in touch with many of you, and some of you take this law as a suitcase without a pen: drop the damage, and bear the burden. Remember, this law is a nuclear suitcase that can bury this country. Think about it before voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u14	Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! On January 21, Ukrainian security officials received detention for the wrong remuneration of the head of the Department of Health of the Zitomir district of Suslik Mikola Petrovic. According to the BBC press service, he demanded bribes -- 10 percent of the so-called deduction for 1.2 million dollars in subsidies that were allocated to oxygen equipment. I want to point out that as a member of the National Health Committee, I have repeatedly been dissatisfied with the work of this director, we have sent an appeal, we have summoned him to a committee in order to comply with the position taken. I just want to point out that during the pandemic and what the country's fighting is looking for money to fight COVID, you're making money on Christmas money. My suggestion: if he has a drop of conscience, we as representatives, I as a representative of Žitomirščina, all Mayors of Zitomiršina demand his release from office, and let him go voluntarily if he has a strong will decision to do so. If not, please emphasize to the MOH and the Žitomir Observatories to conduct a full audit of the activities of such a leader. More than that, if the manager is involved, the first deputy has a two-year open criminal case, and the second deputy also has a criminal case, what is the department going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u16	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u17	Dear friends, I want to remind you a little bit of history first, it's really interesting. You remember, with the previous President, there were 11 times the heat and gas tariffs and 7 times the electricity -- such an unusual story when people gathered the last. For five years, tariffs were imposed that were insurmountable in the country. And the question is, where did this money go in the last five years? We now know because this authority has conducted audits, State audits, and has analyzed since 2014, where money from tariffs has gone to heat and gas. And it turns out that NAC Naftogaz, 225 billion (think about the figure) came out of Ukraine, not based on where and why, and 75 billion were not paid to the state budget. For a minute, compared to what we're expecting from the International Monetary Fund, these are common numbers. There's no criminal case, NAC Naftogaz is run by the same thieves, and the same policy is going on. And now we see that the heat energy is being spent up to 10,000 dollars per thousand cubic meters of gas. Can you please tell me the promises that all of us have made when there were parliamentary elections, presidential elections, whether they were real or not? And now I just want to tell you a few numbers that you don't know. During the summer, gas was added to the state’s gas reservoirs at market prices. This market price, for example, was 2.6, 2,000, 631 bracelets per thousand cubic meters in May. Why are people selling gas now for 7,000 dollars, you might ask? For example, in June, 2 000 357 dollars per thousand cubes. Why are they selling 7? And where did the 28,000 cubic meters of gas go in gas vaults that cost up to 3,000 dollars and sell 7 dollars to people? Dear friends, also Ukrainian gas, cost plus transportation, plus VAT, plus everything, plus 30 percent of the cost is 3,000 dollars per thousand cubic meters. We're selling 7 and we're paying off budget subsidies. Where is the mind, where is the brain, and where is the conscience? Vitrenco is now seated, who spends all his smart life in Naftogaza NAK, for a promotion. We call for the adoption of a law that clearly prescribes 30 percent of the cost of national gas production and gives gas to people, plus VAT, transport to people. This is a maximum of 3,000 dollars, not 7 per thousand cubic meters. We need to do this now. We demand and 255 councils of all levels require, we need to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. I would like to remind you that during a joint meeting with representatives of the MP factions and groups, and yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we invited the Prime Minister of Ukraine to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the situation surrounding the tariff policy after 01/01/2021. Today, the Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, representing the government, is present. The next order of business was proposed and agreed upon. Within 10 minutes, the speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine followed by questions from MP factions and groups. One question is a minute and two minutes to answer. If there's no objection, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you can't have two minutes, my dear fellows. It was agreed. Please welcome to the rostrum of Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u19	Good day, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians, Honorable Fellows! First of all, I welcome the Supreme Council to begin work after the winter break. The government, as always, is set up for fruitful cooperation and design. In the tariff situation, it's very short and very clear. The government has set the maximum limit price for gas for the population and for OSBB at 6.99 GWD per cubic meter of gas. Heat and hot water tariffs will not rise until the end of the heating season. We've managed to reach some consensus with authority on the ground, we've prepared a memorandum, and soon it will be signed. But the fact remains that tariffs will rise to hot and hot water by the end of the heating season. Following consultations with the National Deputies of the NCRECR, and consultations with the Government and with the National Deputies, the NCRECR has limited the gas distribution tariff to 79 copies per metre per cubic metre. Another very important initiative in the distribution and maintenance of gas networks. The government, together with the Parliamentary Committee, is initiating the adoption of a bill on the possibility of increasing fraud, introducing special accounts and introducing a temporary administration that disciplines the gas distribution market and prevents monopolistic increases in distribution prices and tariffs. The fines or foams for the late payment of gas and heat for January will not apply to humans. There's this government initiative, and we'll take it at the next meeting. I mean, what's important is that in January, at high prices on gas or any manipulation by monopolies, we're going to make sure that people don't use fines or foams so people don't get hurt, it's important. We expect the results of the Antimonopoly Committee's investigations and the establishment of fair, transparent rules in the gas market. In the immediate sessions of the Cabinet, a decision will be made to compensate households with electricity. So people who have electricity will get monetary compensation, and the state won't throw it away. And those arrangements that were with the state will be preserved. The main product of gas distribution companies will be the annual silence product. That's what we're working on right now with the Parliamentary Committee and the gas distribution companies. To make it convenient for people to calculate the tariff, it will be set for a year at a time of silence. Such products should be presented by the beginning of this spring. And this is the optimal solution that allows us to develop the gas market and set fair tariffs and reasonable tariffs for people who are in charge. Now, the time left, let me make another equally important topic that concerns Ukrainians, and the national MPs in particular, is the subject of vaccination. The immunization of the population with a safe and effective vaccine against COPID-19 is the most important component of the government's strategy to overcome COVID-19. And the government has a clear vaccination plan, has contracted the necessary number of vaccines that are needed for all those who want to be able to do so this year, and has prepared the necessary logistical infrastructure to start the vaccination campaign already in February. The plan or road map of vaccination includes five stages. The first step is vaccination of people with a critical risk of infection. These are health workers and personnel who provide assistance to patients with coronary disease, people in older people’s homes, military personnel in the United Nations Operation that are on the fore. In the first phase, 367,000 people are scheduled to be vaccinated. The second step is vaccination of people with an extremely high risk of infection. They're social workers, people over 80, other health workers. In the second phase, the vaccination plan is 2 million 540,000 people. The third step is vaccination of people at high risk of infection and those who perform functions of support and security of the state's life. These are DSNS, police, BSS, teachers, other categories. It's going to cover 7.2 million people. The fourth stage is vaccination of people with a higher level of infection. People between the ages of 60 and 64, adults with related diseases and other population categories. The fifth stage is the vaccination of other citizens who don't belong to priority groups. The overall objective of the road map is to cover at least 50 percent of the population by the end of 2022. Ukraine will be provided with the required number of safe vaccines. And that's going to happen in the timelines that were planned. The source of the vaccine is the following. The COVAX Global Initiative, where we expect 8 to 16 million doses of vaccines to be delivered during this year. Ukraine has already submitted all the necessary documents to receive the first - wave vaccines. By February 1, we expect COVAX's decision to be included in the first wave distribution. And if you make a positive decision, you get between 100 and 200,000 Pfizer-Biontech vaccines in February. There's a lot of questions about which vaccine we can get from the COVAX initiative. I answer: the most reliable candidates are the vaccines with which COVAX has previously signed supply and production agreements. These are vaccines from Pfizer-Biontech, AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sanofi. On December 30, Ukraine signed a contract to purchase vaccines from Sinovas, Sinovac, BioNTech. The contract amount of 964 million dollars, the number of vaccines is 1 million 913,000 doses. The delivery schedule is 30 days after the registration of the vaccine in the producer country or in other countries with strict regulatory policies. Last week a vaccine was approved for use in Brazil, where its clinical trials were conducted. We expect the first batch of 700 thousand doses of vaccines from the manufacturer, respectively, after 3, at maximum 4, for weeks. The Minister of Health has spoken on several occasions, and once again, it is very important: Ukraine will use only vaccines with an effectiveness of at least 70 percent. This is very important information to avoid manipulation. The effectiveness of vaccines in Ukraine is only those vaccines that have 70 percent or more. In parallel, the government has prepared and continues to prepare a medical system for the rapid deployment of the vaccination campaign. This is primarily true of the logistics component, the formation of routes for the rapid and safe delivery of vaccines, the formation of vaccination brigades, and other moments. All designated field officials will coordinate the process in the areas of health department heads. The state is ready to receive vaccines, has prepared logistics for safe storage and transportation, is fully budgeted for the upgrade of the refrigeration chain, there is a need for refrigerators, thermoboxes, and temperature control tools. Ukraine has the ability to store, logistically, transport to vaccination sites, which need to be stored at a temperature of minus 80 degrees. Private pharmaceutical logistics companies will be primarily involved. And the answer to the question is, why don't you build warehouses in Ukraine to store low-temperature vaccines? The answer is yes. For the state, these are temporary needs, a once-in-a-lifetime partnership between the state and business here is much more convenient and more appropriate. That's exactly the obvious example of a private-state partnership. To transport and store vaccines with a chain of 2-8 degrees, enough state power is enough. The first stage of the vaccination process will take place through special mobile teams, the crew’s composition has already been formed by name, and there is a clear understanding of who and where to work and who to serve. More than 500 mobile brigades will work. The second and subsequent stages of vaccination are planned at more than 4,000 vaccination sites. In order to be properly motivated, a separate package of medical services is now being developed in conjunction with the NHRI, which will cover the costs of institutions for the organization and vaccination of COVID. The important information, at the level of tariffs, is what concerns society today, these are the questions that we hear from the national MPs. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u20	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. On the question, I'm sorry. I remind you, within one minute, questions, within two minutes, the answer. One question from each faction. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Anton Polakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u22	Again, Anton Polakovou? Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, would you mind giving me a hint when you leave your post? Why are you standing in Parliament right now and just "wetting" on Ukrainians' heads and saying it's God's dew? By your determination, you canceled the taxes that were paid. Why all the farce we've got in the country right now? You can return all the tax rates to Kabmin right now. All your compensations, they're temporary, they don't cover all the losses of our citizens, and not all of our citizens can get them. Do you understand that? Do you realize that you're already driving half the countries into poverty? When will you go and when will you be responsible for your actions? And when can an effective manager really come in instead of you? Renat Leonidovich will give you a decent job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u24	So, about the electricity tariffs. He has stressed today that all the government’s agreed and promised benefits for those households that have set the fires will be compensated by the State. The benefits are monetized, and this is a very important moment in Ukraine's movement towards a civilized world. The benefits must be monetized, and people should receive them personally to avoid corruption when individual companies or individual monopolies are abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u25	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Kulinich Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u27	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u28	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers order of January 1, 2021 abolished the electricity bill, and this particularly hit those people who switched to electricity. It was 90 kips in the first 100 kilowatt-hours. When we met, you spoke and assured us that the matter would be settled. Please tell me how this will be settled, in what terms? And the second question. The gas supply situation is the same now as the electricity supply, for the electricity tariff. Because there are already signals in both Poltavsky and Lugansk. How will Kabmin work here, and how will he react when the electricity tariff is exceeded? This is very much the case with consumer consumers, because it's clearly not pocket money, and it's clearly too expensive for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u29	So, about the electricity tariffs. It's already spoken twice today, and once again, it's a really important topic. Starting in January, all households that have electricity will be able to obtain compensation in the size they had it. This is the only important and short medium. Regarding the second part of the question, I have not heard or understood exactly what it is. So if there are specific signals in the gas distribution part, I've already told you, we're working with the committee to prepare an appropriate bill that will allow us to set order and discipline the distribution market more. Today, the tariff for distribution is limited to December 1, 79, when it comes to gas, and other ingredients are not foreseen before the law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u30	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u31	Please pass the word to my colleague, Mrs. Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u32	Irina Vasilovna Fryz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you. During the seventh year of the war, your government decided to strike a devastating blow against our nation's energy independence, claiming to be willing to buy gas in the Russian Federation. Have you considered the outcome of the 2009 agreements to the government of Timoshenko, and are you ready to go to the Stockholm Court? The second question. Why is the state company Centrenerego selling the oligarchus to the Cologne Power Plant more than a third of the cost of the market? How will you fill in the budget at the expense of these tools? And are you going to take into account the plan to save us from the epidemic presented by Dustyken, in your reflection, which the government is constantly sounding, about the events of the pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u34	Thank you. Short. Gas from Russia buying directly our government has no intention, period. Electricity in the market of industrial consumers is traded as a market, market prices are set up, and they are set up as a market. It's not a regulated tariff that has to be regulated by someone, it's a market relationship, and all producer companies have the ability to sell electricity at the same price that is set on the market for one market or another. That is what is happening today in Ukraine. This is, once again, an important moment to avoid corruption: market prices for electricity, especially for gas, as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u35	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u36	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague by the faction of John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u37	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u38	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, colleagues of Tsimbaluku, for your word. Mr. Prime Minister, I have another question for you. Do you know at what price and how much NAC Naftogaz gas was attached to Ukrainian gas dumps? That's the first question. The second question. Why isn't that gas, which is cheap, that's in the gas dumps, being balanced by the government's price of gas for the population right now, which would be easy to do? And the third question. What actions did the government and the government use to return funds to Ukraine's state budget for Naftogaz, which is 75 billion dollars, in connection with the verification of the Naftogaz State Audit Service? Please answer these three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u39	Let's answer the third part about the results. The Ukrainian Security Service conducts appropriate conduct, and all materials will be made publicly available as a result of this conduct. Regarding the first part, I would like to ask the Energy Minister to give the floor to the acting minister, asking him to comment on the parameters you asked for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u40	Ann Sergiyevna’s chariot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u41	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u42	Wait. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u43	I asked for the floor to serve as Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u44	Under the responsibility of Minister of Energy, Yuri Yuriovich. Turn on Vitrenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u45	The Naftogaz of Ukraine injected the main volumes of gas, unfortunately, while Ukraine was preparing for a gas war with Russia. It was the autumn that preceded the corresponding winter season, 2019-2020, and this gas was attached, unfortunately, at a price that was not as low as this summer’s price. Naftogaz was buying some volumes, small ones, this summer, but, again, I emphasize, the main volumes were attached, unfortunately, at a higher price. At that, Naftogaz offered to all the users in the fall there a 4.70 gas, and anyone who wanted to buy gas at that price could have fixed it for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u46	Thank you. Ann Sergiyevna’s chariot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Galina Yanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u48	Janchenko Galina Igorovna Please insert the card.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u49	Denis Anatolyevich, good afternoon. On January 12, a bill that actually extends the social guarantees of health workers to biologists, virologists and other professionals with higher non-medical education was signed by the President. So this is a bill, which is already a perfect fact, it came into force. And I would like to remind you that this bill states in the Transitional Positions that there is a month in the Cabinet of Ministers to change the law. Today, I want to inform you that, according to my information, the regulations have not been amended. I would ask you to do an appropriate job with the Ministry of Health and to take personal control of the change of regulations. I recall that under this bill, 1 out of every 6 members of the Supreme Council signed the bill, became co-author of the bill, and was voted in favour of more than 280 deputies. Therefore, it is a great request to respect the MP’s corps and all biologists who today expect protection from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u50	Thank you. Everything will be done in a timely and timely manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u51	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Excuse me, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u52	Let's have Papi's.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Head. First of all, Mr. Prime Minister, you have to make a note that it's not 6.99, it's 6.99 plus 1 bracelet 79. And that means 8,800 per thousand cubes for the population temporarily for two months. Remember that your predecessors put 8,550, which is less than your gas figure. This month, we're going to get over 10,000 per thousand cubes. First. The other one. And what are your economic preconditions for a gas price rise when the price and average cost of gas fell from $339 to $202 in December last year? That's the first one. The other one. What are your economic preconditions if we have a free gas price of 2 000 841 bracelets, and you're selling gas to the population of more than 10,000 dollars? That's two. And the third. What are your economic preconditions for leaving the gas companies, the so-called gas operators, and selling the Poltavian gas with transportation??
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u54	So the price per cubic meter of blue fuel is 6.99. That's the first one. The price for gas distribution was really high in 14 lies. After consulting the Parliamentary Committee and the NCREKP, the price was not higher than 1.79 bracelets. Indeed, in certain areas of the monopoly companies, the price was higher, and there were more than 10 bracelets that forced the government to accept and set a price cap in order to protect people. Because it's really an abuse, and the gas market in Ukraine is now being formed, so it was really a need to protect people. In addition, I've already mentioned today the drafting of a bill that will allow temporary administrations to be misled, which will allow them to influence this market accordingly with the aim of stabilizing, regulating and protecting people from such monopolistic saviour of individual companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, this will be the last. Another Romanovna, I know everything! The last question from Voice to Prime Minister of Ukraine, after which we move to work. Invite national deputies who are not in the hall right now. Another Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u56	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question first on the current decision-making in the field of energy. On January 21, the acting minister, Yuri Witrenko, stated that the decision on the price of 6.99 was not exactly what it was meant to be. I quote, "The Ministry of Energy's approach is more constant, more friendly to market participants, but unfortunately another approach was adopted." Please tell me, who makes the decision in this case if these decisions do not involve the head of the Department of Energy? The second question relates to the future. Unfortunately, today the 2021 budget has a ridiculous amount of money for energy efficiency and energy conservation — 150 million. Unfortunately, this means that in the following year Ukrainian citizens will also spend a lot and pay a lot. Is the government planning to increase energy efficiency and energy savings by 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. So the price is 6.99. Indeed, there have been discussions about how to shape these restrictions or how to protect people, and in the dilemma between protecting people and preserving market relations, of course, protecting people comes first. Thus, the lowest market price was set at the beginning of January of this year, which was traded according to the gas market. At the same time, we didn't destroy the gas market, but we only introduced a premium cap, which is a price limit for sellers. We did not return the social obligation, we did not return the nonmarket relationship. It's a market that's limited by the premium rate in such an emergency situation: when we have a lokdown, when we have a hard time earning people extra income, and the price of gas has unexpectedly increased on international markets, and having a market, we've got this, unfortunately, situation where the government had to intervene in order to protect people, that's priority number one. There were no differences at the end of the approval of the approach; the discussions were held earlier. In terms of energy efficiency, you're right -- that's one of the things that Ukraine has to do, which is to make it easier for people to do this size payment when appropriate measures are taken. Let me remind you that in Ukraine there is an Energy Efficiency Fund, which has been transferred to today's 2.7 billion dollars, and it's actually worked effectively for five years, unfortunately, it hasn't worked. So far, all the possibilities have been reached with both donors and the Fund, all the arrangements to start working effectively in terms of energy conservation, energy efficiency. So the cost is, and the amount you're talking about in the budget is additional to the 2.7 billion that have already been allocated. If necessary, we can work together on the results of the first half of the year's budget and add measures, if necessary, to energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u58	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Out of procedure, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the following is a bill to amend the agenda of the day session. You know what's important? Once again, we don't see the European Solidarity Bills. For example, there is no Bill 4585 on increasing subsidies by 7 billion. There's no European Solidarity Bill 4617 on the return of 90 kips to 100 kilowatts to President Dustenk. But what is there? And there is Bill 4351 on the organization and implementation of gambling. This is the face of today’s greatness. Dear colleagues, that is why we find this wrong and we will not vote in favour of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u60	Arthur Volodymyrovich, this isn't a procedure. Next time, let's stick to it. Do you have a deal? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 3050a-16). Please prepare for the vote and take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:00:49]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you, the decision is taken in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4502). Can we vote without discussion? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4502). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:01:41]] For 329 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. The next question of the agenda is the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the shortening of the deadlines. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Medical Devices on State Registration of Medical Liabilities (Registration No. 4613). Please support and vote. [[11:02:26]] For 282 I am voting on the proposal to declare the bill urgent and shorten half the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills in accordance with article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The bill is registered number 4613. Please support and vote. [[11:03:01]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17.12.20 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on State support for investment projects with significant investments (registration number 3760) (from 01.07.2020) (registration number Decree 3760-P). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? Please support and vote. [[11:03:54]] For 224 Decision taken. The national deputy of Ukraine, Nina Petrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, a venerable presidency! In the last plenary days of last year, registration number 3760 was considered without preparation for rereading. The adoption of this decision was accompanied by gross violations of the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules, in particular article 117, which stipulates that a bill prepared for the second or second reading, the conclusion of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents shall be submitted to the National Deputies no later than 10 days before the day of consideration of the bill. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, you knew this bill was very difficult, it was prepared for a second read. And you gave people a chance to get to know them in just a few hours. Dear Head, you can't put such bills in the hall. And as you've seen during the review, this initiative to support significant investments called "none" in the Ukrainian realities in this room has simply turned into a fight for tax benefits. The result is that there is no hidden lobbyism for tax benefits in areas controlled by powerful financial and industrial groups. In the second reading, the amendments — perhaps some of you haven't even seen — are about the possibility of implementing projects in the mining field, including iron ore and marganium. Expansion of corruption in public authorities. In order to receive State support, an investment project should be conducted in five ministries and departments and then approved by the government. The negative experience of such expertise has already taken place in the implementation of projects in SEES and technology parks. Distortion of economic competition. There is no territorial link to the project. Businesses are now being destroyed, which will exist alongside and without tax benefits. I am asking you very much to support this decision, to return to the consideration of this draft law. Keep moving within availability and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u62	The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u63	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 24 December last year, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17 December 2020 on the adoption of the whole draft Law (registration 3760), (registration number of the draft Decree 3760-P). The Committee noted that the National Deputies, the initiators of the draft decree, had submitted to Parliament a draft decision repealing the relevant decision of the Supreme Council, but had not referred to the chairman of the plenary meeting of the Parliament, claiming violations of the procedure established by the Supreme Council Rules when considering the vote of the draft registration 3760, as provided for in part three of article 48 of the Rules. At the same time, Ukraine’s national deputy, Yuzanin, commented on the contents of the bill when discussing its proposals. So in summary, the regulatory committee on the draft Decree 3760-P decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by voting on the adoption or rejection of this draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u64	Thank you. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? Discussion. Two in, two in, two in, two in factions. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u66	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please tell me, did you see all the deputies in the hall that the table before the second reading was given after the 19th hour before the hearing in the hall? What else is needed for a profile committee to recognize that in this case article 117 of the Supreme Council Rules has indeed been violated? Are we going to say "black" in white? In a few hours, there's a table for re-reading, and you're saying that the procedure or the Rules are not broken. It's a direct violation. I think the whole country saw that most of the deputies couldn't even identify what we were looking at, because the table for the second reading and the second reading were different, and the Lobby amendments that I just told you about from the Supreme Council's rostrum were added. So I ask the committees, however, to be professional and responsible for their sphere of control. Because whoever you didn't should have said that the table was actually given a few hours before re-second reading, and what was the point most important of all. Because all the laws that provide the benefits provided for in this 3,760 adopted law are provided for in the Tax and Customs Codes, which are apparently being considered this year. Why didn't you give all the deputies the opportunity to work on the table and consider today or tomorrow this bill? Moreover, it must be understood that without additional laws, the Tax Code, and the Customs Code, these rules do not work. So your haste has turned into that I'm asking everyone to support the decision and go back to reviewing this law. It's basic. We need to understand what we're talking about. I saw everyone on the air wondering what they were doing. To understand this, we need a second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u68	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, given the procedural violations that were now announced by the previous speaker, I don't think there's any reason for signing this bill. But if you look at it essentially, maybe this is the first time that the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted a bill that stimulates not Ukrainian production, not the development of their own industry, the agricultural sector, and this is a bill that stimulates some strange preferences for financial speculators who will use the Ukrainian market for their tools. In addition, the thousands of amendments that have been made to all the factions are too much to confirm that the bill is not ready for signing, but even more so for working on this bill directly, as Ukrainian entrepreneurs will do. That's why our faction requires us to vote down our vote and consider the new procedure, let's re-read it. But we cannot go into a violation of the Rules and common sense by putting such bills to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u70	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, first of all, as a member of the profiling committee, I would like to respond to the previous speakers about what I and my colleagues have learned in advance from the table to the second reading. I don't know what information you have, but we've also seen it with the amendments that we've been making, and all of them, we've actually seen it. But with this, we're going to support the draft decision and our faction is going to vote in favour because there's one very significant discriminatory norm in this bill that actually makes it impossible for foreign direct investment to come into the national economy. This is a norm that in principle stops foreign direct investment from Asian countries and a number of other regional economic groupings within the Asian, major, continent. So from this point of view, we are supporting the draft decision. That's the first one. The other one. If we're talking about the investment attraction that this law is supposed to be fundamentally fundamental, first of all, it should apply to elements like demonoculation. We know how much the demonization now kills the investment attraction of the national economy. Or the same deregulation that we constantly declare, but it doesn't really happen and our system is bureaucratic enough. And most importantly, let's face it: the conflict in the territory of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk is resuscitating the investment potential of Ukraine. Without resolving the Donbas conflict, we will not be able to attract foreign direct investment. For example, direct foreign investment since 2014, or if the peak brothers in 2013, fell from 67 billion to 50 billion dollars in the national economy, and their yield declined from 5.5 per year, in the past it was 2.9, more specifically, in the past it would be less than a billion. That's what this is all about. What's important is that the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission each day detects appropriate violations of the silence regime. So without resolving the Donbas conflict, it's impossible to solve the issue of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u72	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, dear friends! More senseless legislation for the Ukrainian industry is hard to find. I believe that when you voted, "The Servants of the People," this bill, you simply "substantiated" the President, who will be forced to sign it from your submission. Or if the Office of the President works well, lawyers will tell him that such things cannot be voted and signed and signed, because they are the destruction of the Ukrainian industry. Look what you're doing with this bill. In fact, if a foreign human invests 20 million euros, he can destroy any sector of the Ukrainian economy, any industry. He comes in to build a pasta factory, works for 15 years without taxes, without VAT, transports equipment without blurry, without excise duties. It's already 20-30 percent cheaper than any Ukrainian manufacturer, any pasta, any ketchup, whether it's machine-building or any other industry. In fact, you make foreigners and replace them with our Ukrainians, that is, you exchange Ukrainians, and you open the way for foreigners. This time. The other one. You're creating offshore areas inside the country. Our large financial and industrial groups, the oligarchs can simulate the creation of an enterprise for 20 million euros, the transportation of equipment, and essentially within the country, they get a duty-free and tax-free zone through which they'll break through all their goods and everything they can think of, and they'll use it for 15 years. Third. We're talking about that if we're talking about real foreign investment, open up the same opportunity for Ukrainian industries, give us the same conditions. If a Ukrainian enterprise receives investment, receives foreign loans and buys equipment, creates jobs, why not give it the same tax benefits, customs benefits, and so on, so that it is competitive with those foreigners? But you're opening Ukraine to whom -- the Chinese, the Turks, the Europeans -- you're destroying yours. Instead of supporting 50 businesses, it will open up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u74	All those who wanted to speak. "Trust," Shahov for a minute, then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u75	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, if we want to improve the investment climate in our country, we need to look at the bill that our group has registered -- 2070 -- for economic growth, it's Donbass, Luhansk, Donetsk, and allow investment to enter those areas and build normally, not destroy how it is happening today. Why did Olenergo today place 1 bracelet 84 for the transport of electricity, the largest in Ukraine? Is this an investment climate improvement? Tomorrow all businesses will stop, people will go on strike before the organization, where Hayday does nothing today, actually burns down the Lugansk region. In the amount of damage, 22 billion dollars have been paid on the very land where war is taking place today. Why are the bills that will not be passed in the hall under consideration today? Take the 2070 bill and see who votes and who doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u76	"The Voice" for reasons, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u77	Mr. Head, we usually have these decisions used to determine the political opposition. But in this case and in relation to this bill the author of the decree, he's right, it was indeed a violation of the procedure. We were given one printed table and there was a spreadsheet, and the numbers didn't match. And my colleague, Mr. Jaroslava Ruššin, and other colleagues could not lay their papers. That's what this procedure is for. So I urge everyone to vote now, no matter how they react to this particular bill. Let's go back to re-voting, and then there'll be votes -- take it, but follow the right procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u78	Thank you. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17.12.20 on the adoption, as a whole, of a draft Law on State support for investment projects with significant investments (registration number 3760-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:19:32]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Order rejected. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other states to Ukraine in 2021 for participation in multinational education (registration number 4499). It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:20:32]] For 311 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:20:56]] For 265 Decision taken. Needed Discussion? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the military forces of other states to Ukraine in 2021 for participation in multinational education. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:41]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law registration 4499. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:22:15]] For 325 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. A statement came from two MPs about a break with a replacement for the performance. Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u79	Volodymyr Zelensky, you said in the debate that you could never have imagined that you, an ordinary guy from the Horn of Curve, would be fighting for the chair of the President of Ukraine. And here 73 percent of the Ukrainians have helped you to realize this dream that you so vividly described on the front page of your election program. I'll read an example: "I've told you about Ukraine of my dream, where doctors and teachers get real wages and corruption is real terms; where the Carpathian forests are intact, not the national deputies, where grandma gets a decent pension, not a heart attack due to a utility bill." What really happened? Instead of a real term, the corruption of Tatar has been controlled by the Ukrabud Corporation. And as for the inviolability of the Nardepium from the Servants of the Nation, anecdotes are already being made. You continue to make people laugh by assigning showmen to serve your oligarch friends, who, contrary to your promises without brakes, still account for a communique to a heart attack. And it's not just about your friend Scribbling. Your patriotic speeches are sounding like abuse when the President of Ukraine and his environment are increasingly linked to the real Moscow mafia, which, for example, at Ukrainian customs are marrying a contrabas, and your secretary, Jermak, is "barring" schemes in energy, putting the country on blades. Mr. Zelensky, what was this whole circus for? Or maybe for the government's sake in Concha-Sleep? Or in order for the German to collect your foreign accounts? Who would have thought that you, a mere boy from the Horn of Curve, would by your one - person decision close the entire country to a castle and then, as a king, weaken the chain for your birthday! It's kind of a Noor-Sultan savagery, but there's one difference, which is that Janelohu turned out to be 43.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break, a real break, asking to gather the leaders of the MP factions and groups in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to ask the leaders of the MP factions and groups and Parliament's leadership to meet in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, once again, please take your seats and get ready for work, here we go. Dear colleagues, if you would like to invite the people's deputies to the hall, we need to vote in favour of declaring the bill urgent and shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills, which requires 226 votes from the Ukrainian people's deputies. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine (Registration No. 4586). We need to make a decision to declare the bill urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by the day of the plenary session on 26 January 2021. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to define the bill as urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the plenary session on 26 January 2021, the bill (registration number 4586). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:35:42]] For 257. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? Can we vote now? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending paragraph 3 of Section II of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Improvement of Electronic Documents in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 4586). Please support and vote. [[12:36:24]] For 280 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Act amending paragraph 3 of Section II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 4586). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:37:11]] For 284 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences to establish responsibility for obstacles to testing of technological and fire safety (registration number 3931). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:38:03]] For 242 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Medjanik Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. Both the authors and the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement considered the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (No. 3931). It's about the bill. The bill solves the existing problem of not allowing authorized officials of the central executive authority to carry out State oversight (control) in the field of technological and fire safety, to carry out checks on the management bodies by establishing administrative responsibility for such activities. The proposed amendments to the bill are supplemented by a new article 185 p.m. 14 Ukraine’s Code on Administrative Offences to Prevent the Activities of Authorized Officials of the Central Executive Authority, which implements national surveillance (control) policies in the field of technological and fire safety, particularly those related to the conduct of checks. Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, articles 188 prime, are also proposed. 8, 221, 223, 255 and 262 of the Code, which regulates the procedure for dealing with the relevant category of cases, and proposes that police and officials of the central executive body, which is responsible for State oversight (control) in the field of technological and fire safety, be given the right to report administrative offences provided for in article 185. 14 and empower the district, district, city, rural courts to deal with and decide on the cases. It's about the bill. We all remember the tragedies that were on Odessa, the tragedies that were in Kharkishte, when the operators did not allow and hindered the workers of the DSS so that they could verify the compatibility of the fire safety of all buildings. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a great request to support the bill. And we will begin, almost after its adoption, the responsibility of the owners will be to interfere with their legitimate actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion, or can we vote? Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. 5th Vassil Vasilovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u84	Please pass it on to Shah's Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u85	Excuse me, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u86	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Respectful colleagues certainly need to increase the responsibility of each person sitting in the office today and not responsible for anything when people are burned alive. Not the first fire in Kharkiv anymore. Why did this fire immediately take hold and increase responsibility for those who have not done anything in the state in 30 years, not in a year and a year and a half, when the majority is now responsible for the country in 30 years? Where is the fire safety in all the facilities that will be checked: schools, kindergartens, homes of people with disabilities who burned alive? And there was a fire in Lugansk, where 16 people burned down, and no one answered. Within six months, the governor's forces, the head of Hayday's military and civilian administration, were never called in. Who was responsible in the Luhansk region for those events on June 6 and September 6? Who will answer to the families of the dead? Why are 800 houses burned and no one responds today, and they have not even compensated people for the money so that they will not be in trouble in their homes, in their schools, and in their kindergartens, sleeping on the floor? Who will be responsible for what is happening in our country? Of course, we support this bill today on responsibility and on raising the responsibility of those who today should still take up their jobs and bring it all to an end. And please, I'm going to all the law enforcement agencies and the President of Ukraine still put on fire control in the Luhansk region and bring it to an end, to remove the head of the military-civil administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u87	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u88	Dear fellow national MPs, Ukrainian people! I want to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers are such bills. If the Cabinet of Ministers has been working until now without a program, it introduces such bills. From this rostrum, it was said that this bill would improve something. I want to assure you that he's not improving anything, and he's putting a single caste under those positions and under those tragedies that took place in Ukraine, he's just doing a separate caste, a special service of the DSNS. What I want to say about authority. The authorization for the time being is all there is, but we're giving this bill new powers. When an MCS staff member is not launched for a fire alarm check, he has the right to apply administrative arrest without administrative action. It is we who give him the authority to make a decision instead of a court. Another story. We place this single category of ministerial servants at a separate location of the article, which we once again have over-authorized. But, dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the proposed increase in the fine. Note, if at present 17,000 dollars does not solve anything for a business that violates and causes such severe consequences as failure to comply with the rules of fire safety, please tell me 34,000 dollars will solve this problem or not? It is necessary to centralize and systematically approach this work. This bill "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not be supported. And we're here to systematically address this problem, to enable businesses to provide security, and then only from them to demand those results, and to impose fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u89	Labunsky Angelica Victorian. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u90	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies and the People of Ukraine! If we're talking about excessive pressure on business authorities, we're talking about both the influence and the excessive control of the public service, including from emergencies. But the latest developments in the country with fires: both forest fires and fires at the hotel in Odessa, and an extraordinary event -- the fire of a building for the elderly in Kharkiv -- indicate that the state-authorized central authority of the executive branch of the State has lost control of fire safety. I agree with the previous statement that in this draft law there are incompatibilities and risks of fines ranging from one thousand to two, if not repeated over a year, from two to four thousand. Indeed, article 262 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences allows the police to apply administrative detention. The "Fatherland" faction in the first reading supports this necessary bill. And secondly, we will require these articles to be explicitly rejected, and we will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u91	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to give the word to Alexei Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u93	Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u94	The issue of fire safety, of course, is of considerable importance in our society, and it comes from the latest tragic events that have taken place. But today, there are enough sanctions in legislation for violations of the rules of fire safety. And it's not about raising sanctions, it's about the system of government agencies responsible for fire safety. But the bill proposes sanctions for non-administrative detention. This sanction is not consistent with social and dangerous activities. And in general, those who wrote this bill didn't notice that administrative arrest is not applied at all in matters of failure to comply. So because of the uncoherence of this sanction, because Ukraine was on the road a few years ago to deregulation of business, we want to increase the pressure of public authorities on business, so that now businessmen, not what they fined, but what they're arresting in general. So the faction "European Solidarity" is not going to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u95	All those who wish to speak? For reasons, the Monastery. Which one of you is it? Bobrowski, Polakov. Three speeches with motives, then we go to the vote. The Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, this isn't just about establishing additional powers for the State Service from emergencies, it's about preventing those tragedies that happened in Kharkiv the other day, and it's about preventing them. I'll give you just one number to invest in a minute. During the past year, about 30,000 State Service personnel from emergencies, 30,000, were prevented from being tested. And accordingly we go out, and we see the consequences that will come to us, and we have to feel compassion for our families and things like that. Yes, we need to create an effective control system so that there is no abuse. Yes, we need to establish mechanisms and we don't need to impose sanctions that are defined in this law. It's all we're working on the second reading, and we've talked to you about it. But today we are obliged to support two bills on this issue, colleagues. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u97	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u98	Good afternoon. First of all, the Voice faction won't support this bill, because indeed, if you've read the comments even the same GNEU, there's a similar action that's already working, and the KUPAP is already essentially overloaded by similar norms, but I'm talking about another. In fact, it would be interesting to hear from the MPs who are so hot to support this rule, to understand how much bribes cost for a misrepresentation, such as the Victoria Camp that burned up, and with the children where three were killed. For example, a psychiatric hospital in Odessa, where seven people died, such as a college. And you know that the Odessa DNS didn't even have the Tents, these so-called "cubs of life" to save these people? And let's finally listen to the head of the DSS and make a huge assessment of what they have, what kind of technology is in the right-wings to save people. Because inspectors take money and bribes, and boys who fight fire don't even have the basic fire extinguishers to save their children. So it's not about fines for people, it's not about people who don't allow, by the way, for out-of-plan tests carried out by right-wing people, it's about survival and the availability of means of life security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u99	Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u100	Honorable colleagues, fires, other tragedies -- and once again, the authorities decide on the issue of post-factum. Let us ask each other if anyone has allowed any of the checking companies at all? Everyone was allowed. And to what is this unwarranted withdrawal of these fines? We all realize that this is going to end in a row, as my colleagues said, bribes or forced transition to "firm pads," whose beneficiaries are the directors of fire surveillance agencies, and all that, nothing else, is going to end. And this nightmare that this law warns something, it's just a frost, because there are no civil rules for the operation of these institutions in this law yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u101	Thank you. Prepare to vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Establishment of Responsibility for Obstacles to Technology and Fire Safety Checks (Registration No. 3931). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:54:25]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the level of responsibility for violating the requirements of technological and fire safety (registration No. 4157). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:55:05]] For 239. Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Interior Heratchenko Anton Juriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u102	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Chairman, Honorable Media Agents, Honourable Ukrainian People! I inform you that in our legislation there are many misunderstandings, there are many problems in drawing on the responsibility of those who do not want to follow the prescriptions of fire inspectors. Does the Ukrainian people and the media know what a fine for failing to enforce the rules of fire safety in their home? The fine starts with a minimum wage of 0.5 or 50 dollars of 8 dollars. And the maximum fine for breaking the fire safety legislation for today is 7 untaxed minimum wage, or 17 dollars, and that's 109 dollars. And people pay for it with their lives, their injuries, and their unwilling hosts who do not want to follow the rules. What's the point of doing it if you have a fine of 8 and a half dollars? This legislation proposes to raise responsibility for the violation of the rules of technological security. The fine is proposed to be raised to not a very rich number: from 30 to 100 untaxed minimum wage is 1 thousand 700 dollars. This is not a matter of terror but of paying attention to all who need to follow the rules of fire safety. I thank you all very much for supporting the previous law. Under the previous law, when signed by the President, you impose fines for not allowing people. Last I'll say, in two years, 30,000 cases were the lack of access by fire inspectors to objects. And you helped solve this problem today. It won't happen again. Therefore, I ask you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u103	Thank you. The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u104	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement considered the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (number 4157). The aim of the bill is to ensure a proper level of fire and technology safety by increasing the responsibility for breaches of legislative requirements in these areas. Proposed changes. Make changes to articles 175, 175 prime. 2, 183, 188 pp. 8, 221, 223, 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Part of the Increase of the Penalty for Violations of Technical and Fire Safety Requirements by Legislation. Secondly, the carrying out of economic activity by the subject without the declaration of conformity of the material and technical base of the subject to the requirements of legislation in the field of fire safety and non-execution of regulations, regulations and regulations of the central executive authority, which implements public policy on matters of public oversight, control in the field of technological, fire safety, is also proposed to increase between 150 and 200 non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens. The notoriously false challenge of special services today is from 3 to 7 untaxed minimum citizens' income, proposed by this bill from 200 to 600 untaxed minimum citizens' income. To amend article 270 of the Criminal Code, according to which the imposition of criminal responsibility for violating the requirements of technological and fire - safety has resulted in a fire or accident that has caused damage to human health or property to a large extent. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill and to vote in the first reading to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u106	Please pass the word to the High Priest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u107	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u108	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Dear colleagues, this bill is certainly very important, and there is a need to increase the responsibility for violating fire safety in this direction. Given that we all know about the fires that took place in Kharkiv, but I'm paying attention to the fires in Lugansk that took place in July, and then in October, five people were killed for the first time, then 11. Do you see the trend? Despite the criminal responsibility for these crimes, failure to comply with the requirements of fire safety. All of you know that these facts have led to the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, which now plays the role of law enforcement authorities in investigating the causes of these fires and the inaction of officials. In almost six months, the head of the U.S.A. was never questioned as to his activities regarding the prevention of these fires. And yesterday's first question is, "What do you do for a living? - he said, "The Laws on Local Self-Government." And we didn't hear any answers to all the questions. And the basic question is whether the headquarters for the elimination of fires was, no, not for the first time, not in July or October. This is how I address the law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General of Ukraine: why has it been more than six months now, and in no way has a decision been taken in this direction? What Is Needed? The work of the TSC, and so we can finally call him and ask him this question? If the law enforcement authorities had answered, there would be no crime in October months or people would have died. Let's take a look at these.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u109	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u110	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the National Deputies! In fact, we need to increase the administrative responsibility for failure to do so, because 170 bracelets is a funny story for today, where managers find it convenient to pay these costs and do nothing for fire-fighting measures. The Fatherland faction supports this bill. I'd like to talk about something else. In conditions of decentralization, we need to keep in mind the fire fighting in the united territorial communities, the material and technical provision of the fire parts, both in the united communities and in the general public. Because when there's trouble, we expect them to react quickly. And thank you to those firefighters who are constantly in combat. But as a state takes care of them with regard to the material and technical provision of these parts and the salaries of the workers, this is also a separate issue. And I would like to ask the leaders of the law enforcement agencies what was done and what were the found and punished charges that set fires in the Chernobyl area, the forests set fire to Kyiv, Zitomir, Lviv, and other areas? Where are the culprits, where the returnees are harmed to the state? This is a big question, I wish we didn't forget about it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u111	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Chairman, please give the floor to Mother Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u113	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extension of the previous bill, which you are told is that the latest tragedies have led everyone to such a conclusion that it is necessary to pay attention, to increase fines. The increase in fines in no state in the world has produced a positive result. If the latest events are considered, I want to say, as an investigator, that the qualifications for breaking the rules of fire safety for which people or suspects have been detained in order to violate them must be established. If there was no fire safety in this house and no idea who it belonged to and who was responsible for it by the form of property that was violated by the people? The questions are open. And in order to make sure that the people and the people who do the business, who do the business, keep the demands, the state still needs to give the mechanisms, let it be able to remove, not tell here from the rostrum, from every TV that there is no possibility of working the law enforcement system. The faction won't support this bill because it doesn't systematically decide anything. It's increasing fines again, and by the mechanism, we're again making changes, which are absolutely nothing to interfere with the work of law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u115	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u116	Please give it to Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u117	Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the bill on increasing responsibility for violations of fire and technology security is very timely and convenient today. But imagine that 170 fines for failure to comply with fire safety requirements is a ridiculous fine. He, this sanction doesn't scare corporate leaders, they can pay 170 dollars of this fine every month. The bill proposes the introduction of criminal responsibility for failure to comply with fire and technological safety rules if a fire or a technological disaster has occurred that has caused serious consequences for people’s lives and health. And the increase in fines for non-compliance with technological and fire safety and failure to comply with regulations significantly increases fines. These are the right, proportionate sanctions for these offences. That's why "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u119	Motives: Catchure. No one else insists on the performances? Now, Katchura, after that, let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u120	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Our political faction will certainly support this bill because the fines were really funny. But at the same time, I personally see an increase in fines as extra pressure, pressure on business during the coronavirus pandemic, during the economic crisis. And where the fine is increased, there is corruption. That's why I'm asking law enforcement officials not to do business fines first, and they're in control of those who take bribes, for those who tag and come to entrepreneurs and say, "You're going to have a fine here, and let's settle in half." In doing so, you must do so first and foremost, not with criminal responsibility and the consequences, and you must fight against the causes. And the reason is this corrupt system, this is a system where it's better to pay bribes than follow any procedure. And that's why the fires are happening. Not because entrepreneurs don't want to, but because this is how the system works. So do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who have spoken, let us go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the level of responsibility for violating the requirements of technological and fire safety (registration No. 4157). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:09:52]] For 317 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Peoples' Act through the U.S. referendum (registration number 3612). I would like to remind you that during the meeting that took place during the break, we agreed that all the factions would give a list of the rights they would insist on. This information came from just two factions. Please provide a list of the rights and authors who will insist on them. Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will insist on all its actions. Do I get it right? Let's go. No, you have 10 minutes, I remember. The opposition platform insists on all regulations. Then let's go to the chart. "Trust," is there a list of rights? Aren't you going to insist on the paperwork? "For the future" is what they did. "Paternity" gave us information on what it would insist on. The Voice gave it to me. "European Solidarity" gave it. "The servant of the people" gave. Then we went to the repair shop. Voloshin. Who will be. What kind of regulations do you insist on, distinguished national MPs? Nestor Ivanovich! Germany, 32 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, by supporting this right hand, I would like to say that the bill proposed by the authors regarding the peoples of the government, as they are not ashamed to call it, has nothing to do with the peoples of the country and comes out of what is the subject of the referendum. But look at what is the subject of referendums. First of all, the Constitution does not even permit restrictions on the will of the people. The people are the source of authority, and they decide how and what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u123	Are you insisting on the papers? I'm betting on the vote number 32 of the German National MP. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:46]] For-63 No decision taken, no correction counted. Dear colleagues, since we're already going over the table to make twice. How many rights do you have there? How much? 110 straight? Germany, 37.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u124	I support my work. And I would like to ask my colleagues to support and resolve the issue that this right concerns the right of the people to decide in referendums on questions, questions and legislative techniques, and on the subject of the legislative initiative of the people. And that's why I support these amendments. And the second. I'd like to say that when these amendments go through, they came out of the rules of the Constitution, how they write out the question of referendums and the right to participate directly in this people. Thank you. I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u125	I'm betting on a vote of 37 German votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:23]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 38th Amendment, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u126	This is also true of technology that prevents people from being excluded from the procedures and processes of establishing a legal basis for relations in society. We cannot keep the people side by side and ignore it. Do not overlook the real needs of the people for government management. Read article 38. As we come from the fact that the people’s right to take part in the regulation of matters related to the administration of state affairs, it is up to us to conclude that changes to valid laws should be made. So what I'm saying is, in Egypt, they accepted the Constitution when they went to war, they adopted the Constitution, and we didn't have any laws. I'm backing up my paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u127	Thank you. Ordering 38 German and Shufrich national deputies Please make a brief proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u128	Dear colleagues and distinguished Mr. Germany, I'm actually very surprised at you as a lawyer to hear such proposals. Let us not replace the legislative and legislative function of Parliament with that of the Ukrainian people. The only legislative body in Ukraine is Parliament. And what you're talking about is we have an abrasive referendum, a so-called national veto, where the Ukrainian people can either prohibit or prevent the implementation of some law or part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment of 38 German and Shufric national deputies is made to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:53]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The following amendment is made by 41 German and Shufrich national deputies. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u130	My fellow Members, with regard to this amendment, I would like to note and point out that the Constitution defines, when it cannot be put to a referendum, specific questions, no longer does the Constitution provide for restrictions. And so it's strange that this bill just points out that law enforcement, judicial, constitutional or international law will decide, see if the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, if it contradicts the question, cannot be passed. This, I'll tell you, is essentially a latent form of control, control of the people's activities in the administration of state affairs, and it's unacceptable to extend the restrictions provided for in the Constitution. So I support these adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u131	Thank you. A vote is taken on amendment 41 of the German and Shufric national deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:22]] For-76 The decision is not taken. The next amendment was made by 45 German and Shufrich national deputies. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this amendment, based on the fact that the legislator, and this is you and I, have gone to isolate and ban, to foresee the "chandors" for a referendum, for the implementation of the popular will. That's what this is about. And that's what we're asking to rule out. Because the restrictions on holding a referendum are provided by the Constitution as the norm of direct action and we cannot extend these positions. Moreover, we are not members of the European Union, where we want to impose under international law the will of the people. That's what this is about. We have the Constitution, the highest legislative act is the Constitution. So I support these amendments, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u133	Thank you. A vote is taken on amendment number 45 of the German and Shufric national deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:53]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment was made by 53 German and Shufrich national deputies. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u134	What's 63 or 58?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u135	58th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u136	58th, this refers to the same thing, fellow honourable Members, and with regard to article 63, amendment 63, we also ask that we exclude those positions that limit the right of the people of Ukraine to decide on matters of government administration on the basis of their will. And so, by insisting on this amendment, I ask you to support and give the opportunity to implement the people, to ensure, more faithfully, their rights, as provided for in article 3 of the Constitution, as a source of power. We cannot limit the people. Who are we then? We are descended from the people. And that's why I'm supporting my revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u137	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. A vote is taken on amendment 58 of the German and Shufric National Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:20]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. What's the next amendment? 63rd, yeah. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, this is also true of the same question. And I would just like to focus on the fact that unfortunately, the drafters of the bill have prepared this proposal to be presented as an element of the people's government, and they don't see it, because we haven't seen the people in this country. Because these restrictions are against the people, against their will, and against the freedom of the Ukrainian people. And so I ask you to support this amendment and get rid of this disgraceful position that limits the people's right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u139	Thank you. A vote is taken on amendment 63 of the German and Shufric National Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:37]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 69. National MP Schuffritch, this is the copyright amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Your Honor, the reporter! A very important, principled question: Why are you restricting the people of Ukraine to three issues in one sphere? I have a fundamental question -- to hear the rapporteur's opinion, and I would like to have the generator of today's law, our esteemed first vice-speaker, to hear the idea, too. And you know, your limitations on people's rights have led to this -- attention from all colleagues, this is going to be interesting for everyone! – that according to the latest survey by the Commission today, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 27.7. Who do you think is second? No, not you, "The Servants of the People," but unfortunately, "Eurosolidarity" is 15.3, "The Fatherland" is 12.6. And only in fourth place are the Servants of the People. You've already earned to your people that he doesn't want to see you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u141	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u142	Thank you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich. Look, the question that you're raising right now is how many questions can we bring to the All-U.S. referendum is actually very important. And that's exactly what we don't refer to as repair spam. That's exactly what the working group has given too much attention to, and we've been discussing this very productively. One question for the referendum is the position of the working group. And putting one question in a referendum provides referendums against abuses and manipulations of the number of issues that are raised in the referendum. At the same time, I would like to point out that a change in the number of questions will lead to a change in the concept of the bill itself, and it changes and breaks completely. Still, once again, we can go deeper: organization of election committees when we have advocates for the referendum and who against it. What about three questions? Do these people have different perspectives on different issues? There is no balance in the work of the commission. So again, there are reasons for abuse. The position of the working group is one question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u143	Thank you. The 69th Amendment of National MP Nestor Schufrich is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:35]] For-64 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. 76 Amendments, National Deputies of Germany and Shufrich Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I have just heard from the rapporteur on this bill that the group has decided: just one question. You're not at all. I understand that there is a latent attempt to prepare a referendum for the sale of land to foreigners. How, then, can you ask questions about selling land or not selling it? That's two questions. What are we talking about? That's the first one. And second of all, your colleagues, how is this a working group, tell us where in practice in the world is limited to one question? I would like the reporter to state the reasons why this working group said, from Bolivia to Poland, to Mexico, where it was going, and to Sweden, please call people to see where you found it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u145	Thank you. There is 76 amendments to the National Deputies of Germany and Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:11]] For-63 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry, we're going to go back to 74 revisions to Burmich, because I'm only referring to Shufrich and Vasil Ivanovich. Please, 74th, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, my amendment also refers to the right of the people to vote and to express their thoughts in a referendum on more than one issue. And what you said is that only one question is being asked, you're manipulating, because we've seen just recently how the President put it on. I wanted to know the opinion of the people in five questions, and you had no problem getting confused. And in today's circumstances in Ukraine, not only is there one issue that concerns the people -- it's the earth, and it's the direction of development, and there are many other issues that need to know the opinion of the people to us, the people's deputies, in order to keep up with them, with the thoughts, with the circumstances that they are. So I insist on my amendment that you don't limit the people with one question in a referendum, at least two or three.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u147	Thank you. The 74th Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Burmić, is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:46.]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 77 Amendment, Germany, Shufrich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I want to focus first on you and secondly on the group that was preparing. On what basis do you ignore the prescriptions of the Constitution, which clearly provides for where, for what, and when referendums on a particular subject cannot be held? Who gave you the right to act in a manner not provided for by the Constitution? You can read, as the constitutionalist writes, that the referendum, including the national initiative, can be held with any kind of interest, except for amnesty issues, except tax matters and budget issues, all of them. You found the parcels, you found the parcels, you saw how latent you were.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u149	Thank you. The 77th Amendment of the German People’s Deputy, Shufrich, is based on the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:15.]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 179th, Germany, Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I understand it's hard to break this wall, which is probably thicker than Chinese. But what I'm trying to say is, remind us as legislators that we're being delegated here by the people, that all the actions we're doing here should be the will of the people, and that we should do legislative acts and create them. At the same time, look what this has to do with the people because of such proposals in this referendum bill. Believe me, this is a fiction that will never be held in a referendum for the next 15 years at a national initiative, because we take from people the right to be elected by such powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u151	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich, this amendment, I'm sorry, it's my fault, it's taken into account editorially. Therefore, the proposal is not to put it to a vote. I missed the 90th amendment of Honorable Deputy Burmich. Please 90 amendments to the People's Deputy of Burmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u152	The 90th Amendment refers to the deletion of part two in article 4 of the Bill. What does that mean? It's that one question in a referendum can't be asked more often than once every three years. I believe that we are restricting the right of people to national ownership. Why? We're here in this room, we're adopting laws, we're canceling them in a month, we're changing them, we're amending them, we're limiting the people. The same question the people have the right to ask when the situation so requires. And once every three years, it's a restriction on the rights of the people, it's a violation of the peoples of the country. That's why I insist on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u153	Thank you. The 90th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Burmić is put to the vote. Please identify and vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[13:34:56]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 275, People's Deputy Shufrich. Guys, look, Mr. Burmich has 6 amendments, you can bring me a list, because I have a car that's named Shufrich and we're going as we agreed. Give me a list of your amendments and we'll come back so I don't jump. Okay? Please, 275, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. For us, today's consideration of the matter is very principled, so we'll be in line to consider our amendments, to convince. We've done a thorough analysis of the amendments and our colleagues. It is very sad that the amendments of many national deputies are not taken into account, including Dmitri Alexandrovitch Razumkov, our Head, were very appropriate, but they are not counted. And to be honest, we have a question: Why are we just now starting to consider this issue? Because one of the main issues the Ukrainian people expected to consider in a referendum was the Law on Earth. So first under the COVID pandemic, Lochdown and Lochdown have passed the Land Act, and now we're talking about a referendum. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u155	Thank you. There is a 275 amendment of the Shufric People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:41]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Please make 110 amendments to the People's Deputy of Burmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u156	110 revisions. Part five of the bill excludes part two. What's it about? I also want to make it possible to hold referendums at the people's initiative, along with the elections that will be held. Why? Because it's also an economy of money, and it's the right of the people to choose freely, and they can still vote on one question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u157	Thank you. An amendment of 110 people’s deputies, Burmić, is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:44]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 119 of the people's deputy, Burmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u158	119 amendment. In article 6, part two in paragraph two, the word "or by electronic voting" is deleted. Why, the reasons. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this amendment should also be taken into account. And that piece of legislation doesn't exactly correspond to democracy and the will of the people. We know what's necessary. This violates the principle of secret balloting. Because before entering an electronic system, it will be necessary to identify itself: it is a violation of the rights of the electorate and a violation of the fundamental right of the secrecy of the choice of human beings. That's why I insist on my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u159	Thank you. Please have the 119th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:14]] For-76 The decision is not taken. The next amendment of 141 people's deputies, Burmić, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u160	141 amendment: In article 13, the words "or by electronic voting" should be deleted. I've already given my reasons. It applies to the same thing. GNEU is against it, too. And we support the GNEU's conclusion that democracy's fundamental principle is the secret of voting. That's the first one. Second, we realize that not everyone today will be able to use Ukrainian citizens by electronic voting. Unfortunately, we do not have these opportunities everywhere today. That's why I think this has to be ruled out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u161	Anatoly Petrovich, let me just say this. All the questions relating to electronic voting are said in the Transitional Positions that prior to the adoption of a separate law. So I want to remove all these fearsome national MPs and tell them that only if there's a separate law will these positions act. But I'm putting to the vote 141 of the people's deputy, Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:36]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is made by the 177 people's representative of Burmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u162	Amendment 177. In article 16, part two, the following wording reads: "The All-Ukrainian referendum shall be declared a national initiative requiring at least three million Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote, provided that the signatures for the appointment of the referendum are collected in at least two thirds of the areas and no less than one hundred thousand signatures in each area." This is what the Constitution teaches. That is why I consider it necessary and in the Referendum Act to abide by the Constitution and the requirements of the Constitution and to bring the requirements in order. Then we'll have no questions in the Constitutional Court, and nowhere, and it'll all be taken into account. I insist on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u163	Okay. But it's edited, and you want it to be included in this edition, right? Or what, I can't understand? It's considered editorially. So there's an offer to move on, dear fellows. Next amendment to the 318th National Deputy of Germany. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, this is a matter of taking part in and preparing a referendum at the national initiative. And so when I made this amendment, it was partly supported. At the same time, we must conclude that there should be binding powers of the President. If a standard is set, it is binding. Remember, history knows that for a year and a half, no referendum — and he died — even though more than three million votes were raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u165	Thank you. But it's considered editorially. Is there a need to put it to a vote? Let's move on then. Next amendment 326. Vasil Ivanovich, please, she's dismissed, so please take your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u166	That's all from the same question. I'll bet on it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u167	Okay. Then I put to the vote 326 amendments to the national deputies of Germany and Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:25]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment was made by 330 German and Shufric national deputies. Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of time before the President must resolve the issue and declare a referendum on the people's initiative. It's 15, and it's basically this unified position -- 10 days. That's what we suggested. Ten days is enough. Because every day, you know, it takes away the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u169	Thank you. There is 330 amendments to the National Deputies of Germany and Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:26]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The following amendment is made by 336 German and Shufric national deputies. Please, Vasil Ivanovich. 336.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u170	Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u171	Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u172	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Reporter! In principle, it refers to the Presidential Decree on the appointment of an all-U.S. referendum on the People's Initiative. And we have a fundamental question here about setting deadlines for compliance. Unfortunately, this amendment is rejected, and we insist that it be taken into account. We hope that understanding in the Hall and that the holding of the referendum on the terms set by this amendment will provide sufficient time for its quality preparation and implementation, taking into account the demands of the people of Ukraine, who are the bearer of authority. Please don't forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u173	Thank you. There is 336 amendments to the vote of the national deputy Shufrich and German. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:04]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Amendment 342, Germany, Shufrich. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Considering that this amendment is edited, we can agree not to vote on it. But I would still like a hundred percent of the text that is reflected in the Constitution of Ukraine in relation to this standard. I think it's rather inappropriate to change the text clearly defined by the Constitution of Ukraine in the preparation of a specific article in a special law. No special law, including a law such as a referendum, can change the clear wording that our colleagues have defined by adopting the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u175	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Because it's edited, we're not going to vote because your idea is in the law. Thank you for your work. Next amendment 364. Participant Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, 364 amendments: this is in article 29 of the bill in part three of the word "for 60 days" to replace "for 120." But given that the committee has taken into account our proposals, my colleague Vasil Ivanovich Germany, for 90 days, I am taking down my question and agreeing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u177	Thank you, thank you. 366 and then. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please. 366, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. As far as the amendment is concerned, it is a collection of signatures. Unfortunately, an initiative that would simplify would make this procedure more accessible, rejected by a profile committee. We suspect that the purpose of this law is not to speed up and satisfy the demands of Ukrainians to hold a referendum, but to complicate the procedure. So we have to say that, unfortunately, the amendment that would have a positive impact on the provision of the signature-gathering procedure has not been taken into account. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We therefore insist that the question be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u179	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Yes, it is. I bet on the vote of 366 the amendment of Honorable People's Deputy Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:25]] For-56 The decision is not made. Next amendment 371, Germany, Shufrich. Please, who? Nestor Ivanovich, perhaps. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u180	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Returning to the sad practice that has, unfortunately, already taken place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the adoption of a shameful law, both about the land and about the game business, so that without it Ukraine could not develop. How much time we've wasted on this. This is against the fact that according to the latest polling, about 80 percent of our citizens insisted that the Land Act be considered first in a referendum. In order for the people of Ukraine to bring good to the very fact that the earth is being realized in a situation of deep crisis. Unfortunately, the law was passed, thanks to us, in a different way than planned at the beginning, but the opinion of the people was ignored. And please place the amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u181	Of course, Nestor Ivanovich. The amendment is made by the 371, German and Shufrich national deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:56]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next, 375th. Nestor Ivanovich, again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u182	Mr. Chairman, to be honest, I am now interested in your personal comment and your comment by the rapporteur. I'll read the amendment. "The organizers of the assemblies may be exclusively Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote in the referendum." Please tell me, if not exclusively Ukrainian citizens and, if not exclusively, those who have the right to vote, who else can participate in the general meeting on the initiative of the referendum? Can you please explain to me who but the Ukrainians? Well, who but us, after all? I don't understand the substance of the profile committee's position. Please explain to me and the people of Ukraine. Because the obvious thing is that the referendum is supposed to provide, initiate and form, including in the congregations, the Ukraine you are supposed to serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u183	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Of course, only Ukrainian citizens. But I'm giving Mrs. Alina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u184	Dear Nestor Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u185	Please, yes, Mrs. Alina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u186	Nestor Ivanovich, let's face it, don't make it difficult. Ukrainians are our nationalities. Yes, but it's about voters, and the voters are Ukrainian citizens who have reached the right age and have the right to vote. Let us not complicate our law with some complex design. The committee's proposal is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u187	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 375 the amendment of the People's Deputy Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:01]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, Nestor Ivanovich. Next amendment 376. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u188	You're a great reporter! I honestly didn't understand, maybe we didn't hear each other, so I'll be more careful and correct. It's not about Ukrainians by nationality, I respect all nationalities. As a citizen of Ukraine, who is Ukrainian, including Ukrainian Russian, including Ukrainian Hungarian, including Ukrainian Slovak, including Ukrainian Russian, I would like to read to you: "The organizers of the assemblies may be Ukrainian citizens (only) who have the right to vote in the referendum." It's not the Ukrainians, it's the Ukrainians. And I don't understand why a committee against Ukrainian citizens being properly involved in organizational assemblies. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u189	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, you wanted to hear my comment. It's just been replaced by a term that belongs to the Ukrainian Electoral Code -- "electors." And the term "electors" refers to Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote, it's a terminology simplification. But that's not what you're talking about. I therefore place 376 amendments to the vote of the distinguished national deputy Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:49]] For-54
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u190	The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 396, the National Deputies of Germany and Shufric. Wait a second. 382th, I'm sorry. 382. Please, who's it going to be? Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u191	Germany. Honorable colleagues, a rejected amendment that applied to the fact that if a representative of the body, including CLTC, did not appear without valid reasons, the people had the right to decide without it and to hold congregations. This is a referendum on the people's initiative, the people own themselves, the governor himself. What's not clear? Therefore, it was suggested that if they were notified and ignored, it would give the citizens who had assembled to the congregations, the 200 people, the question. Perhaps you can tell a story when a CTC representative did not come twice on purpose and failed all procedures. And who knows how to get people together, in general, I don't think they understand the authors who went to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u192	Yes, thank you. I've lost what an adjustment that is. 382th Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u193	The committee's position is to reject. Well, once again, let's not make it difficult. Part five of this article tells us that the CLTC can send to the congregations. Maybe there's no imperative character here. It either directs or does not direct, and it has no effect. In addition, the Committee finds that it is inappropriate to complicate this by adding a paragraph on the absence of the selected representatives. So let's say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u194	Thank you. There is 382 amendments to the National Deputies of Germany and Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:19]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. We've already passed 396. 405th. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please. 405, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u195	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'll be with you in a minute. Yes, I found the amendment. Regrettably, the amendment that relates to the text of the draft law that is proposed for a national national referendum cannot be changed after it has been approved by the majority of registered members of the assembly to hold a national referendum. It was a very good correction. If the question raised in the referendum by the majority of the general assembly is already defined, how could it then be edited and modified after the preparation procedure for the referendum has begun? This can lead to abuse and some counterfeiting. I therefore insist that this amendment be confirmed and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u196	Thank you. A vote of 405 amendments are made by the national deputy Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:52]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 407, Germany, Shufrich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, this is still a matter of what was decided in the congregations and which is being submitted as an object in the referendum. There is no substitute for understanding each specific subject. As the representative of the people in the congregations put it, and as it was approved, so it should be. This is what we come out of, and what we consider to be an unreasonable rejection of the amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u198	Thank you. A vote of 407 amendments are made by German and Shufric national deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:54]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 411, Germany, Shufrich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all these congregations that we've been talking about here are the congregations. Look here, they say we don't need to overload the text of the bill, so here we go back to the fact that the person who has the right to vote and the drafters replace the idea of voters. Remember that a citizen who has the right to vote is always an electorate, and the elector is not always a person who has the right to vote. If you don’t understand, I’m very sorry to talk about meaningful exercise. And secondly, with regard to those lists that we recommended. We said to take this into account, that's what's important today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u200	Thank you. A vote of 411 amendments are made by German national deputies, Schufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:22]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 428, National Deputies of Germany, Shufrich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u201	Here's a question that's been rejected by the notion of replacing the words "text of the act." That's it. And I think from the point of view of the technology of law-making, we should have taken into account the proposal that came from Nestor Ivanovich and me. The question is the text of the bill, the loss of validity, so to speak. So I'd like us to support that. This is the technology of lawmaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u202	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Vote 428 is amended. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:29]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 445. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u203	Excuse me, can I ask you for the amendment number again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u204	445th Nestor Ivanovich. 445.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u205	445th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u206	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u207	I'm a little surprised that you're proposing this amendment, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u208	Oh, God, I'm surprised, too. 448 and then. Excuse me. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, Nestor Ivanovich. It's rejected, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, this offer is not good, believe me. It's a matter of terms: a five-day period should be replaced by a 15-day period. I want to say that the issue of action comes from the people, and that's why these terms that the drafters of the bill think are going to solve things so quickly in the people, it doesn't make sense and it doesn't make sense. But this is due to a possible violation of rights and the impossibility of realizing their right because the deadline is over — and all — and is not renewable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u210	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. The vote shall be amended 448. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:20]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 449. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u211	I want to put my offer to the stand, to support it, based on the overburdened application of the term "Ukrainian Constitution." See the text of this article. And these words, "The Constitution of Ukraine," they're here for nothing, they're not carrying any legal burden, all the more in terms of reading meaning, and the purpose of this legislation is not playing any part either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u212	Thank you. The 449 amendments to the National Deputies of Germany, Shufrich, are put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:22]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 450. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, when we talk about whether the text is loaded or not, here we have heard from the reporter, and we ask that in article 31 we exclude this position so that it does not overload. It's not necessary. Moreover, his taste is not very good because it refers to the influence on the will of the people and the ability of the people to express their desire or vision in the resolution of the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u214	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. The vote shall be amended by 450. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:28]] For-54 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 456. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u215	The same thing, we suggest that we exclude these positions that we refer to, which is exactly what we provide: the second part of Article 31. It overheats and does not carry essentially the load that should be both readable and must be used directly by people to simplify consumption.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u216	Thank you. The vote is amended as follows: 456. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:19]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 463. Vasil Ivanovich, please. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u217	Paragraph three of this part of the same motivation please support, Your Honor, and exclude it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u218	Thank you. There is 463 amendments to the National Deputies of Germany and Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:57]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your constructive position to the representatives of all the MP factions and groups. Now we're going to give the word Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, three minutes for the statement of the faction's position. Still, as agreed, everyone will speak. Someone will make a statement, someone will place their application for confirmation. Then we vote on the amendments. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Then we vote. Nestor Ivanovich, from the place, if there is a reporter, you remember. With all due respect. We put the confirmations to the end and move on to the vote. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u220	Unfortunately, honourable colleagues, the bill that is now being proposed for consideration is about the same as the President's impeachment bill. It is one that does not provide the real possibilities of holding a referendum and severely restricts the rights of our citizens in their right to choose and initiate the issues that Ukrainian citizens consider essential for consideration and decision-making. The restrictions provided for in this law, which conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, unfortunately narrow down the rights of our citizens. We hoped that, when we considered our amendments, the corresponding inadequacies and contradictions of the Constitution of Ukraine would be removed. Sadly, we were not heard. I'm sorry. The restrictions that apply to individual privileges on the part of the President of Ukraine, who may delay, translate, postpone, and in fact ruin the very procedure of organizing the referendum, remain the norm of this law. It's also a shame that this law didn't get consensus during the work of the working group, so now we have consequences, and maybe we'll get consequences in the form of non-admission of this law. But it is certain that the national deputies of Ukraine will be identified. I'm not saying that the whole system that was supposed to be provided in this bill fell out of the law and was reflected in the local referendums. And once again, I want to remind the Ukrainians, all the Ukrainians, that we've been waiting for this bill, not really in the middle of our Supreme Council, but in law number one. And we could already consider the Land Act in the context of the adoption of the passed Law on Referendum. 80 percent of our citizens wanted to decide the fate of the country in Ukraine, unfortunately that did not happen. And you promised to serve the people, not the oligarchs from across the ocean. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u221	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, "Trust" doesn't insist on law enforcement, do I understand? "To the future." Taras Ivanovich Batenko-- four minutes, we agreed, right? Is Batenko in the hall? Yes. Dear colleagues, Frolo Paul Valeriyovich, please do not see your colleague. Taras Ivanovich Batenko is four minutes’ walk. And then we put 8 ballots. Please turn on the timer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u222	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian society! The parliamentary group "For the Future" has submitted its proposals for taking account of the draft Peoples' Law through an all-Ukrainian referendum. We insist on our amendments, which are principles for us. And in principle, if they're counted, we can consider issues, obviously, in order to support this bill. But we'll look at the results of the vote. We understand that the system of peoples of the world is different by popular vote, by referendums in the world. And we realize that such a system should be clearly coordinated by existing legislation in one country or another. History knows different examples. Ukraine also knows two examples of all - Ukrainian referendums. We remember the 2000 U.S. referendum conducted by President Kuchma, which contained largely mechanisms for social manipulation and, obviously, that we do not really need referendums. But at the same time, we know that one way or another, we need to know the social position on important issues of order. For example, when we adopted the Land Act, the Earth Market, we knew that the social opinion was that 70 percent of the population in Ukraine said they were against the sale of land. And we would certainly have a completely different picture with regard to the law that we have adopted today, which is directed by a group of national deputies, including the national deputies from the parliamentary group "To the Future", to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I'm more than convinced that we need to listen to the Venice Commission on a number of issues. But we have to assume that if we're adopting the Referendum Act, we have to get out of the economy. And this refers to the number of questions that should be put to the referendum in one way or another. We think it might be more than one question, two or three questions and more. Sadly, such an amendment was rejected in the draft law. Furthermore, because the issues of the agenda that may be referred to the referendum may include questions of territorial integrity of Ukraine, our parliamentary group "For the Future" believes that all of these issues, which are referred to in the referendum, should go through the Constitutional Court, as though we were not subject to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine today. Taking into account this amendment, to our conviction, will allow for mandatory control by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the constitutionality of any matter raised in the U.S. referendum. And it is unacceptable that an editorial adopted in the first reading, according to which the Constitutional Court of Ukraine exercises proper control over the referendum issues, not according to a mandatory procedure, but simply to appeal to the subject of the right to constitutional appeal. We insist that, in fact, by drinking weight as a guarantor, the position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on all matters relating to the territorial integrity and security of the country be as if under the control of the Constitutional Court. Another important amendment that has been ignored, which our parliamentary group "For the Future" insists on, and more than convinced that the Chamber of Deputies, all democratic factions and opposition parties should support this amendment, and this will be a condition for voting for this bill, is that it will not, in fact, allow the country's referendums to represent the international observers of the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. Let us not forget, however, that we are a warring country. And in a situation where the Electoral Code forbids observers from the aggressor country, and the draft Law on the All-U.S. referendum allows, I think it's a big nonsensus that strikes on the security situation in Ukraine. I think we should support this proposal. And we want to see how the hall votes for them. Only in these circumstances can we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u223	Now I'm putting to the vote eight rights of the national deputy Batenka. They were all disregarded by the committee. Do I get it right? 73 redundancies. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:01]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 78 redundancies. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:21]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 229 readjustment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. 229th. [[14:17:39]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 236th. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:57]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 970 right. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:19]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ninety-seven. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:36]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 972 law. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:53]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 973 edits, extreme batenka edit. Also rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:15.]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna, 10 minutes with a replacement. Julia Volodymyr is out of place because we have a reporter. Thank you. Ten minutes of the show instead of the right. No, Julia Volodymyrna, we have a reporter on the stand, with all due respect, we would have had it by now. No, Julia Volodymyrna, with all due respect, we had these precedents with our colleagues. From place to place, we had the same thing on the ground, with all due respect, because tomorrow we'll all be going out like this, we'll end the process. Thank you. Please include 10 minutes of July Volodymyr Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u224	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u225	I have a request, please sit down, you really don't see the reporter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u226	I want to say that the main responsibility of the President, who made certain commitments to society, was the introduction of the peoples of power. The People's Authority - and it was deciphered by the President, do you remember that? He said that every important question would be accepted first by the people in the referendum and then voted in the Hall and would continue to be in effect. It's been almost two years, but only two years now, not the first People's Landing Act introduced, but two years later, there's the Referendum Act, which, and I want to make a point of it now, and I want everyone in the country to hear it right now, there's never going to be a referendum under this law. It's not realistic about the procedures you've set out. Our team has made more than 300 rights to give people access to the referendum, but unfortunately most of these rights are not counted. I'd like to go to the hall right now and ask a question that's not rhetorical. Please tell me, are you all in this room planning to give the people the right to influence the decisions of the state, including the Supreme Council, the government, the President's Administration? If you're planning on giving this right to the people, this law is professionally inappropriate, and I'm going to tell you why. If you don't plan to give people the right to influence decisions, then this law is what needs to be done because people don't break through this wall. I want to remind you that all the latest sociological surveys say that more than 70 percent of people think that the country is moving in the wrong direction. And the latest poll says that only 10 percent of people think they're moving in the right direction. What does that mean? This means that most decisions are taken against the will of the people and they don't agree with this course, which means that a referendum can fix this situation, but if it's real. Why do we think that this law is not a real law to ensure the will of people on any issue? First. The very procedures for deciding how to start the referendum are so complex that they can't be passed by any initiative group. It is not enough that a member of the CLTC is required to attend each congregation of the initiating group that a member of the CLTC has not arrived before the meeting of the initiating group. Next, I would like to quote you directly that contrary to the Constitution, people will be required to do so. And I want to remind you that the Constitution has full requirements for the people to hold a referendum. These are just three million signatures to collect and submit questions and signatures. And now I read that people will be required. Attention! "The registration of the initiative group is based on the position on the issue of the U.S. referendum. The initial group must submit the following documents: identification of the expected socio-economic, legal and other consequences." Do you understand how the people will write to you such "analysts" that are not required by the Constitution? Next, for example, the legal and other consequences of such a decision. So imagine, this law requires that when people ask questions and collect 3 million signatures, they prove it! - that it's going to have some kind of effect. And this is a scientific paper, this is a professor's dissertation that still needs to be done. And if people don't do it in a bad way or do it, there's not going to be any initiative group registered. Then, too, they will require a justification for achieving their goals. Are you explaining to me what reasons, what goals, and what achievements? According to the Constitution: question, 3 million signatures and a dot. And it's written here so that people will never be able to get to the referendum. The next important thing is that after people have asked questions, they will be tested. It's not just that, people have signed 3 million signatures, and this is where the referendum is already being held. But they can be sent to any facility. First, the CBC will say that this is an unconstitutional issue. Do we have, uh, CTC is the Constitutional Court? They will determine where the constitutional question is and where not? Show me their authority, in the C.V.C.C., to determine constitutionality? Well, that's not all. After that, if the CTC has not even found unconstitutionality there, it is passed on to the President, and the President will think for 40 days whether it is constitutional or not. Why don't you show me?Oh, my God! Where's the people? And if, for example, the President thinks that the question of land is unconstitutional, he'll say it's an unconstitutional question, good-bye. And three million signatures, where do people have to put them? Can I tell you this place? I want to see him before this law is passed. The next thing that matters is that you pay attention. This excludes the right to hold a referendum on the new Constitution at all. Who, then, will approve the country’s main document? It says right here that you can't. Where in the Constitution, show me the ban on holding a new Constitution through a referendum? It's not there. It's just an anti-constitutional law from the beginning to the end. But that is not all. In "transitional positions" -- here I ask your attention simply -- they wrote that until the budget adopted the appropriate changes to make money in a referendum, a referendum could not be held. And it says there's no money for a referendum until January 1nd, 22nd, so there's no referendum. And besides, it's forbidden here directly by law until January 1nd, 22nd, to introduce an institution that the President has promised, and the Servant of the People Party has promised, that is the veto of the people on the laws that have been passed. And now the question is, why is this law, if the people are not being introduced here? Just to put up a bird and ban people once and for all? We had a faction leaders meeting, and I asked the question, if there's a referendum tomorrow, for example, on the ground, and you have a law that's already been passed, which comes in from July 1st, because it's going to work -- the law or the referendum, if people say not to sell the land? So it turns out that there is no imperative in this law to decide the popular referendum. That is to say, this is not the same as the Constitutional Court's decision -- they said that unconstitutionally and these positions are no longer functioning, but that the referendum at the national initiative was adopted, and that does not mean anything until the law is passed here. So why these referendums if they don't have any imperative meaning? Then the word of the people will be worthless. I also don't want to talk about electronic voting. I think that electronic voting, even the Venice Commission, said to rule out this law, just to rule out -- and dot -- because electronic voting is a straight line to falsification. I'm not talking anymore about how it says here that the results of the referendum, where no one is going to affect these results, are completely out of control. And that's why our proposal: if anyone really wants the people in this country, read carefully the Referendum Act, make it a second reading. And let's all do a very simple experiment with you: you can have a referendum under this law or you can't. If there is no referendum under this law on the initiative of the people, this road does not lead to the temple, this road does not lead to the peoples of the land. And why, then, deceive each other, that it introduces the peoples of the land? It's an illusion, it's an absolute imitation of the peoples of the country, it has nothing to do with the peoples of the country. I call upon all the people who are going to vote in favour of this law to read it carefully, and you will see that it closes the way for people to say any word of their own. I ask the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the second reading. This law is necessary, but our joint expertise on whether or not a person can hold a referendum here is very simple. For the second reading again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u227	Thank you. Rachmanin. I can't hear you. "European Solidarity." Knazevitch. Say, please, maybe there's three minutes on the books, and then we vote them out? Is there no objection? Ruslan Petrovich. I can't hear you. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u228	Better every time, because they're text-wrapped, it's hard for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u229	12 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u230	12th. I'm going to try and try to talk about essentially the amendments, not the law at all, because we can still talk about the law at the end. This amendment tells us that we don't have to do what the drafters proposed when they write specific subjects for the referendum. We have to make it clear, as it logically follows from the Constitution, that the subject of the U.S. referendum may be any question other than those directly referred to by the Constitution as powers of authority or local self-government, as well as the direct prohibition of the Constitution in the referendum, and the point should be placed on that. Because any extension of interpretation or, let's say, arbitrary definitions would lead to this being definitely the subject of a hearing in the Constitutional Court. I encourage you to think that this kind of definition will make any revisions of the Constitutional Court impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment number 12 of National Deputy Knjazevik Ruslan Petrovich is voted on. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:29]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 29. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u232	During my first reading of the bill, I raised the issue, tried to convince the committee. And I am now addressing the session room: I would like to support the possibility of removing a referendum from the text of the bill, such as the loss of validity of the Ukrainian Law or its individual provisions. Dear colleagues, it's a strategic nuclear weapon, you don't know how it's going to work or how it's going to work. Imagine a situation where any bill, any law that has been passed, already a law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 30 years of independence can be the subject of an all-Ukrainian referendum. Any warnings you've made, there's a lot of warnings, it's fiction, they're not going to lead to anything. I assure you, given the practice of the Ukrainian courts -- you'll see, you'll remember this conversation -- we can have extremely complex consequences of this kind of norms. The only warning that could be effective is if this kind of referendum results can be confirmed by Parliament's decision. This is the practice of many countries around the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u233	I'm betting on the vote number 29 of the People's Deputy Knazević. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:00]] For-103 The decision is not taken. 39th Amendment, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u234	I want this right to join those who have already spoken on this issue, and I propose to limit myself to those issues that are clearly prohibited by the Constitution of Ukraine, which cannot be put to a nationwide referendum, namely, tax, budget and amnesty bills. Any extension of such grounds has already been the subject of a review by the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, including because of such enlargement. Why are we once again on these rakes? If this is done consciously, it is a big mistake. Please support and bring this standard into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u235	I'll bet you 39 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:00]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 79th Amendment, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u236	What's that? What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u237	79th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u238	79 By way of permission, I propose that the results of the referendum should be provided for a referendum on the loss of validity of laws or parts of them by appropriate parliamentary approval. Such practices exist in the vast majority of countries in the European Union. If you look at, including the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, you look at the recommendations of the Venice Commission, you'll realize that this is a perfectly logical and correct decision. It is forbidden, including by acts of the European Union, to replace Parliament with a referendum by a policy of the Council of Europe. This practice must be initiated in Ukraine because there is already a number of decisions by the Constitutional Court, where it is explicitly stated that the replacement of Parliament by referendum is unconstitutional in terms of both the Constitution and the international legal obligations of Ukraine. Please support this rule and bring it into line with the international legal obligations of Ukraine, of which you are so right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u239	I'll bet you 79 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:31]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 114 revision, extreme modification of Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u240	Well, I'm not going to be at all the revisions on this issue right now. I just want to make a general statement about the position that worries me the most. It's called electronic voting. That way of solving this question that you've proposed by adopting a separate law, it's not going to solve this issue, apriors. Any reference to the Ukrainian Parliament's bill on the possibility of initiating an electronic collection of signatures to support referendums, as well as the corresponding vote, means that the Ukrainian Parliament allows for manipulation and falsification of the results of the referendum vote. It also allows for an impact, including on the outside, on the outcome of the Ukraine’s election, which is unacceptable. This is a disgrace that will remain in Parliament's body. If we've already come to the point where we're putting this for an indefinite perspective, let's remove it from the text of the bill, and life will show how much this is to be discussed in the Ukrainian Parliament at all. I think if you don't want to hear the opposition, then listen to the Venice Commission, which called you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u241	I'm betting on the 114 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:03]] For 111 The decision is not taken. 28 Laws, Vejatrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u242	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This is one of the most important lines. And not counting it can, unfortunately, turn the adoption of this law into a tool to dismantle Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Amendment 28 removes from the list the items of a referendum the annulment of laws or parts of them in Parliament. I will remind you of 75 articles of the Constitution: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the only body of legislative authority in Ukraine." Therefore, the law or parts of it may lose effect solely because of the adoption of the law by Parliament, by a new law, or by the decision of the Constitutional Court, if that law does not conform to the Constitution. The adoption or repeal of laws in a referendum around Parliament is a completely totalitarian practice of dictatorial regimes such as the Russian Federation. Please support this exercise and do not allow anti-parliamentary and anti-constitutional norms to be adopted in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u243	I'll bet you 28 votes. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:17]] For-98 The decision is not taken. 113 law, Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u244	This has been mentioned many times, but it is worth repeating. This amendment provides for the rejection of the so - called electronic voting. First, there is no technical possibility to protect electronic voting from distortion, this is the way to falsify the results of the referendum, especially from abroad. Secondly, it is impossible to control freedom of expression in electronic voting. Thirdly, the Constitution requires that the referendum procedure be determined solely by laws, not by references to future acts of the CWC. I urge every deputy to realize that this so-called electronic voting is an adventure that transforms this project into a tool for manipulating and destabilizing Ukraine. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u245	I'll bet you 113 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:23]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 136 law, Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, why do most countries, including high-tech, not vote electronically in elections and referendums? Because it is not possible to guarantee freedom of choice during such a vote, let alone an electronic trail that can be identified by who and how to vote. Why did even the individual countries that experimented with electronic voting give up? Because it is impossible to protect such a vote from cyber attacks and forgeries. France gave it up three years ago, two years ago Russia gave up because of the possibility of Russian cyberattacks. Is Ukraine less threatened by Russian cyberattacks than Lithuania or France? Have we forgotten that Russia is an aggressor who is fighting Ukraine, including in cyberspace? Please vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u247	I'll bet you 136 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:34]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Sixty-seventy-two. 323rd, I'm sorry, Viatrowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u248	Another amendment against attempts by the peoples of the country to destroy the legislative field and parliamentaryism in Ukraine. There are two mines under the foundation of Ukrainian democracy in this bill that will turn it from a tool of democracy into a weapon of manipulators and populists, which threatens the security of Ukrainians. Two openly adventurous destructive things. The first is the so-called electronic vote, which I've already talked about. And the second is the repeal of laws and parts of laws without a legislative body. If one of these mines remains in the law, only those who have no concern for democracy in a country that has no national security can vote in favour of this law. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u249	I'll bet you 323 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:42]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Sixty-seventy-two.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u250	This amendment refers to the creation of a so - called electronic voting station. There's no procedure, no protection of secrecy and no freedom of expression, nothing, but there's a building where there's no telling how 1 million votes and maybe 10 million votes can move. Who will check them, count them, and on what basis? We've all seen October 25th on the initiative of the "People's Servant" party, they've been meeting, they've been doing some kind of polling, they've been collecting some polls, they've peddling some incomprehensible junk into the boxes, and it's seen as a nationwide survey. So roughly like this, just in electronic form, we're being asked to do this right now because of the adoption of this law. Colleagues, a referendum is a popular expression, not a drawing of virtual voices. I urge you not to let the referendum turn into an electronic farce. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u251	I'll bet you 672 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:57]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. It's 1234. Right? Windshield, its extreme design.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u252	President Zelenski proposes a bill on the loss of validity of Ukraine's laws or individual provisions adopted on the basis of the referendum. Dear colleagues, let me remind you: Ukraine is not Belarus, not the Russian Federation and not the Third Reich, where laws are passed in referendums. In Ukraine, the Constitution and the Constitution provide that the only legislative body in Ukraine is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that has the authority to enact laws. The adoption or repeal of laws around Parliament has nothing to do with democracy, which is the practice of the worst totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. And if we, as Parliament, allow this to happen, we will thereby undermine parliamentaryism in Ukraine. I'm talking to colleagues, especially in the People's Servant Party, so don't let Parliamentarianism be ruined in Ukraine. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u253	I'm betting on a vote of 1234, Vetarović's amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:14]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The next revision of the Voice. Rachmanin, six minutes, right? Three minutes? I'm sorry. Three minutes. You're not going to insist on the papers? Three minutes and then we're voting on the revisions. Right? 33 Law, Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number 33 suggests that the first part of the article be deleted, where it is proposed to make the case of a U.S. referendum for the loss of validity by law or its separate positions. I remind you that there is a Constitution, there is a Constitutional Court decision, there is a Code of Good Practice on Elections, there are conclusions of the Venice Commission. This violates all the requirements contained in these documents. A referendum cannot replace Parliament. The Supreme Council is the only legislative body. The Code of Good Practice states in white: what is the subject of Parliament's exclusive jurisdiction cannot be referred to a referendum, especially without Parliament's approval. Now you're laying a mine that's going to blow up and bury you all. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u255	I'm betting on the 33 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:03]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 205 correct. Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, 205 revisions. We are offered to pass laws or bills that may become obsolete in the referendum. In fact, you're taking away the Supreme Council. Elections are the same form of direct democracy as referendum. When people vote for national MPs, they delegate to them the right to write, correct and correct laws, it's the exclusive jurisdiction of Parliament, and it exists. If you're prepared to change any legislation in a referendum, then let's make some changes to the Constitution, cancel the Supreme Council and impose legislative duties on the referendum. If that's your choice, vote for it. If you have common sense, if you've read the Rules, there's a huge number of filters: reading, procedure, scientific expertise, legal administration. And you're willing to give it to someone you don't know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u257	I'll bet you 205 Rachmanin's vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:32]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 231 revisions. Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, I'll give you a simple example. There are Minsk agreements that directly conflict with the Constitution, which was recognized by a large number of lawyers and Ukrainian politicians and international experts. To this day they cannot be implemented, thanking God, in Ukrainian legislation. This law allows the Minsk Agreements to be passed in a referendum, and then they will become rules of direct action, and no one, except the Constitutional Court, can change that. This amendment proposes to give the right to require an expert opinion on the text referred to in the referendum, the Constitutional Court. If you are talking about the peoples of the world and are not afraid of the rule of law, what prevents an expert from making the Constitutional Court mandatory rather than advising, how is this proposed by a valid law? At least make sure that you do not feel ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u259	231 law, Rahmanin. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:49:51]] For 106 The decision is not taken. 272 law, Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u260	This applies to the electronic voting procedure. Dear colleagues, first of all, this is contrary to a whole range of requirements: both meaningful, and legal, and technical, and international standards that are accepted in the leading countries of the world. Even article 44 of this bill states that it is possible for a divisional commission not to be able to ensure the secrecy of the vote. If the bill itself risks that the right to vote in secret is questionable, why introduce it? The Venice Commission clearly advised: Put the question down, examine it, think about it, and then return to it if it already hurts. I'm not saying that, in fact, a large number of countries, as my colleagues have pointed out, have given up electronic voting because of huge threats. If this is what France and Lithuania do, where cybersecurity is at a much higher level, we allow ourselves to do so by questioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u261	272 Committee revisions are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:18]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 327 law, Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, this amendment actually duplicates my previous amendment. There is another chance not to put to the vote as the subject of an all-U.S. referendum to change existing legislation. The current legislation cannot be changed in a referendum, even because even part of the law provides for changes to a series of laws, to an enormous number. Moreover, this bill does not provide for how this will happen. There are certain requirements for the Cabinet of Ministers, but this is, again, in contravention of the Supreme Council Rules, where it is written that any changes to legislation arising out of this bill should be laid down in the draft itself. Do not create chaos in legislation, please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u263	I'll bet you 327 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:33]] For-100 The decision is not taken. 429 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, this is the last amendment, and it is also very important. It's real. The current norm of article 30 deprives the Supreme Council of the possibility of influencing the text that has been given to the U.S. referendum. There are legal regulations, there are legal techniques, there are parliamentary powers, there are laws and there is a Constitution. When you deprive Parliament of the influence of legislation, even after the whole country referendum, you create huge risks. These risks are prevented by most countries in the world, where even where legislation can be adjusted in a referendum, there is still a parliamentary function that cleanses and corrects, aligns these changes with valid legislation. You create a huge risk when you throw Parliament on the sidelines. Then don’t regret staying out of the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u265	I'll bet you 429 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:53]] For-99 No decision taken, no correction counted. The Voice, it's all correct, isn't it? Thank you. The following revisions are "Serial of the People", three minutes. Then we vote 10 right-wing Kalchenk, three right-wing Matusevich, one right-handed Razumkov, and no one insists, do I understand? After that, we have three more confirmation papers, right? I propose that we finish this question today, continue it for 15 minutes or before we consider it. Is there no objection? Thank you. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Sergei Vitaliovich Calchenko, three minutes. Then there are 10 confirmation rights. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u266	Yes, I thank the committee for taking into account a number of my proposals, quite substantial, but I will still ask for 10 motions. They're all about the same thing. And this is the novelty of the bill that the electorate can support the initiative to hold a referendum by filing an electronic application with the tools of an automated information and telecommunications system. These 10 proposals, they provide for the refusal of this institution, this statement electronically, throughout the text of the bill. Why? I think we can question the constitutionality of this rule, because the Constitution defines the organization and the holding of referendums by law. In fact, it is suggested that the operation or functioning of this automated system will be determined by a sub-legislative act of the Central Electoral Commission. That's why I think it's against the Constitution. Secondly, under such conditions, the state authority will collect signatures, namely the CLTC. That is, on the one hand, the law prohibits the collection of signatures in public authorities, local self-government, and, on the other hand, expressly allows the CEC to collect signatures. The third moment is completely opaque from this mechanism. Yes, it is predicted that the CEC publishes daily the number of voters who, using the signature, by using this system, support the motions for a referendum, but on the one hand, this cannot be verified. Neither the initiating group nor the opponents of the initiating group, i.e. neither the supporters nor the opponents of the referendum can verify this, unless the electorate himself, who signed, can verify himself. I mean, on the one hand, the use of administrative resources in the referendum process, namely, the CFC, on the other hand, cannot be verified. I'd like to say that these 10 proposals, they don't balance the law, the crows just across the text of the bill from the very beginning, where this mechanism is mentioned, to the very last position where it is mentioned, actually make it impossible. So I would very much like to support these 10 systemic proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u267	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, this committee is not supported. But we know the profession of Sergei Vitaliyovich, and I think it's going to be different for the hall to take suggestions that have always come from you, that have always been professional and convenient. I'll bet you vote 351. Ready to vote? 351 revisions, it's not supported by the committee, but the hall can be defined. Ready to vote? Please vote, 351 Qalchenka's amendment. [[14:57:56]] For 295 Decision taken. Edit included. 351 Calchenka's right. Please vote. [[14:58:21]] For 289 Decision taken. Edit included. 524 Qalchenka. Please vote. [[14:58:40]] For 282 Decision taken. 566 Calchenka's right. Please vote. [[14:58:57]] For 280 Decision taken. Was that 566? Was it now? 573 revisions, Calchenko. Please vote. [[14:59:23]] For 274 Decision taken. 578 Calchenka. Please vote. [[14:59:44]] For 274 Decision taken. 589 Calchenka. Please vote. [[15:00:05]] For 277 Decision taken. 622 Calchenka's law. Please vote. [[15:00:23]] For 273 Edit included. 634 Calchenka's right. Please vote. 634th. [[15:00:45]] For 277 Decision taken. 654th. This is an extreme amendment, please vote. [[15:01:05]] For 275 The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. Next line 832 of the people's representative of Razumkov. Dear colleagues, the proposed bill suggests that we actually freeze resources every year for a referendum. We don't know if he will or not. Today, there have been two referendums in the history of our nation. And it's estimated by the Central Electoral Commission that Minfin is going to be about 2 billion dollars a year. And on December 1st, they're going to be distributed, and we don't understand where. You all know, there are funds, they're all distributed at the end of the year. So there's a suggestion to change the wording and leave it: if such a referendum is to be held, it will allocate funds from the budget reserve fund. I'm betting on the vote of 832 people's deputies of Razumkov. Please vote. [[15:02:17]] For 332 Decision taken. Edit included. Thank you, Your Honor. Order 26, 414, 629, Matusevich. Maybe a minute, and we're voting for revisions? One minute, and we're voting 3 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u268	Yeah, yeah, I'm fast. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor's fellow MPs, your opinion is proposed under number 26. In the text of the draft, the word "change territories" and "change territories" in all differences and numbers is replaced by the words "increasing territories" in the corresponding difference and numbers. The question of changing territories is painful today. And in order to make it clear that the referendum on changing the territory of the State can only be part of the expansion of its territory, please support the amendment. Edit 414. In the first sentence of part nine of article 30, replace the word “sixty” with the word “ninety. ” The question concerns an initiative group that should be composed of not less than 90 Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote on the day it was formed. An increase in the number of such citizens from 60 to 90 will allow for a more qualitative approach to the formation of such a group. And it's 629. In the first part of article 35, the word "ten" is replaced by the word "twenty." It is proposed to increase the deadline to 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u269	Give the committee position. Can we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u270	Yes, Your Honor, the position of the committee was clear: to reject, because there is a clear discrepancy in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u271	All three of them? I'm betting on the vote number 26 of the people's deputy Matusevich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[15:04:19]] For-74. The decision is not taken. I understand that the first thing I understand is that it doesn't fit the Constitution? What about the other two rights?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u272	As for other committees, it's just a complication of delay procedures when we have a referendum process and it's so short-circuit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u273	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 414 of the people's deputy Matusevich. Please identify and vote. [[15:05:10]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 629 decree of the People's Deputy Matusevich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[15:05:31]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Three more confirmations. Amendment 85, Revision 92 and 265. Let's give it 2 minutes -- and we're voting three revisions. Do you have a deal? Two minutes, Windshield.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, in our first reading, we have adopted this rule: the decision taken in the U.S. referendum can only be changed by an all-U.S. referendum not earlier than three years later. But the second reading committee changed it. Now with regard to Amendment 85. Three years later, we can only go back to the question that was supported in the referendum. However, if the question is not supported, the 92 that the committee took into account suggests that a referendum be held every year on the same subject. So I'm going to ask you to put these changes to confirm and restore the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-26-m0.u275	I'm betting on the approval number 85, it's counted by the committee. Ready to vote? 85 revisions, please support and vote. Confirmed. [[15:07:00]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 92 committee revisions are supported and taken into account. I'll put her to a vote, confirm. Please support and vote, 92 revisions. [[15:07:27]] For 246 Decision taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'll bet you 265 votes. The committee supported her. I'm betting it on confirmation, 265 revisions. Please support and vote. [[15:07:54]] For 248 Decision taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights the draft Law on the Peoples of the State by means of an all-Ukrainian referendum (registration number 3612). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:08:50]] For 255 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
