ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare for registration. I remind you that registration, as usual, takes place by pressing the "for" button, the first one on the left-hand side or the green one. I see, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:07:07]] There are 269 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to welcome our colleagues. Yuri Yuriovich Aristov. Happy birthday! [[Applause]] Yuri Yuriovich, this is about you. Vladimir Viktorovich Kabachenko. Congratulations on your birthday! [[Applause]] I want my colleagues, my success, my strength, my health. Let's get to work. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance, "Fatherland." Who will act? Julia Volodymyrna? Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u2	Right now, I'd like to go to Ukraine. The point is, on July 1st, when the anticonstitutional law on the sale of agricultural land begins to take effect. You know that this law contradicts, violates at least 22 articles of the Constitution. This law on the sale of agricultural land provides directly from July 1st for banks with foreign investments to own agricultural land. This means that foreigners are allowed to own agricultural land. This law of July 1st ends the right to use the land permanently for our agrarians: it's farmers, it's people who have cities, it's science agrarian. So the farming is being wiped out of life at all. Since July 1, auctions have begun, where money, not national interest, and not agricultural development, will decide who will own the land to which the earth will make profits. Since July 1st, it's allowed to behave like vandals: take down the top layer of the land of the Blacklands; completely excludes the state from any function that controls the use of land; prohibits any environmental control. It's all deleted from the Earth Codex. From July 1st, our land, 72 percent of the territory of Ukraine, began to come from Ukraine. I can say that there is also a violation of the United Nations Resolution, which made the next decade a decade of family farming, because this whole package of laws that has been passed allows great speculators to develop on earth, big monopolies on our earth, and essentially transform our land into profits for foreign and own oligarchic corporations. Our team, like at least 70 percent of Ukrainians, will not accept this abuse. You know very well that the President of Ukraine and his environment have forbidden people to hold a referendum on this subject through their representation of the Central Electoral Commission and have completely destroyed the Constitutional Court in order not to rule on the anti-constitutionality of the Land Act. I mean, our team and 70 percent of Ukrainians don't give up. We're still going to hold a referendum, we're still going to get the Constitutional Court's decision, we're not going to let the land get stolen. Glory to Ukraine! It's going to be Ukrainian sooner or later.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u3	You're welcome. The same is true of a break with a replacement for the performance. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. I heard they're talking about a historic meeting today at 4:00. What's historical about the political debris you want to take? What's historic about the Oligarch Act? You know, I've heard accusations about our political power that we're going to make some kind of resistance to the adoption of this law. This is how I want to reassure you: calm down, relax, we will not prevent you from adopting this law. You know why? As Peter the Great said, "Let your fool be seen." Moreover, I sincerely wish you would accept it today as a law as a whole, that your foolishness be signed as soon as possible by the guarantor and that you go together on one matter of this foolishness and irresponsibility. For my part, I want to tell you that this is not a law against oligarchs -- it's a law against journalists, it's a law against freedom of speech. And that's what even your 95 block producers say. They're shocked by your initiative. But so be it. And once again, when you go back to your accusations that we're going to be afraid of something, someone is going to oppose you. Oh, no. For you to work quietly here, we're just going to leave the sit-down session so there's no indication that we're going to contradict you in any way. Work, vote, I tell you again, you have a unique opportunity to vote in general, we will not interfere with you. To be honest, I was hoping that in the next session we would consider tariff issues, pension issues. From now on, 1854 bracelets are the minimum pension. You don't have a conscience! The minimum pension is less than the minimum wage. What's in your head is deligarization? But your main roof is the oligarchs. What are you talking about? We see your sanctions lists: our smugglers get new shares, and our competitors get sanctions. Same thing about "wool in the law," and we'll see what's going to happen to the oligarchs. So, dear friends, dear colleagues, I sincerely wish to end the oligarhat today. But I wish you, start with yourself, because your wealth and your control of mass media are entirely in line with the law you are proposing today. And you need to think about people, not to fight the rich, but to keep people from being poor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u5	And an extreme statement about a break with a replacement for the performance, Umerov Rustem Enverovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I've always said that: I'm a Crimean Tatar who was born into deportation. God forbid you're born there. By the time I was nine years old, I had imagined Crimea from tradition, as my grandfather had said, that was the purposeful policy of the Soviet Union regarding the Crimean Tatars' indigenous people. For eight years now, Russia has continued this shameful policy in the occupied Crimea. But today the world has changed. Why? Because there are legal instruments on Ukraine’s side, there is international law. We had to do our homework or homework. Colleagues, today are two more important bills from the Crimea Platform Package: this is the Native Peoples of Ukraine Act and the Crimea Free Economic Zone Act. Their approval is a signal for those in Crimea who remain and oppose Russia. Ukraine must continue its diplomatic and legal struggle for the occupation of Crimea. The first law on the indigenous peoples only decides the concept, because the concept of "roots peoples" appeared in our Constitution 25 years ago, but there is no law that determines who such indigenous peoples are and what rights they have. These are nations that have historically formed in Ukraine and have no other Fatherland than Ukraine. The second bill is about abolishing the free economic zone of Crimea. He finally cleans up all the discriminatory things that were in this law. So if you have a Crimean pen, you're going to be a non-resident, or a foreigner. Colleagues, today in our power to give the enemy a civilized and legal repudiation. We can take a decisive step towards the depopulation of the Crimea, and it is only up to us to adopt these two bills -- a project on the indigenous peoples of Ukraine and a project to abolish the free economic zone of the Crimea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u7	Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the legal principles of the State Bureau of Investigation. — Registration No. 5305. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:18:26]] For 204 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Yatzik Yulia Grigorovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! The story of the creation of the D.B.I. was not easy. Since the adoption of Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin’s Bill in 2015 and by the actual beginning of the work of the body in November 2018, nearly three years have passed. And the first report on the work of this body was received only in March of this year. Can the work of the D.B.I. be called irreprehensible? Of course not. But you and I can remove today those obvious flaws that hinder the efficient and independent functioning of this body. For example, we suggest moving the local DBR office in Melitopolis, which serves the Hersonic, Zaporezian region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, to Zaporozhye. Because the objectively territorial distance of the population reaches from 200 to 400 kilometers [200 to 400 km]. We also propose to increase the borderline number of DBD personnel in connection with the workload and complexity of the trial, and we propose to increase the number by 400. We also suggest that we authorize the carrying of firearms to those in charge and in the lineup. Allow the disciplinary commission to consider disciplinary matters concerning the heads of the local authorities. And create an expert service and provide access to open electronic registers. Indeed, according to the GNEU’s conclusion, there are some warnings regarding access to banking secrecy and the creation of expert institutions. But on the committee, we discussed these warnings and decided to remove and exclude them from the bill for second reading. So please support this bill. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u9	The word is given to the co-reporter of the Committee on Legal Protection, Dennis Anatolyevich Monastirski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u10	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The purpose of the bill is to improve the organizational structure of the State Bureau of Investigation. Each paragraph of the bill was also discussed between the legislators of the legislative initiative: between the parliament, the corresponding committee of profile, the government, and the President’s Office. They are also implementing President Vladimir Zelensky's decree on the organisation of the DBR since February 5, 2020. In fact, this bill deals with organizational and technical issues regarding the State Bureau of Investigation, allows for the creation of DBD units in every area so that there is no rush between the areas and between the courts of areas where the DBD is to be followed. The DBR is then included in the list of organs involved in the fight against crime. Especially in the context of the fight and reform of the Ukrainian Security Service, it is very important that we really include the DBR in the bodies that are involved with other law enforcement agencies in the fight against crime. The D.B.I. traineeship issue is being resolved. The issues that have arisen and have arisen in our colleagues in the Hall regarding access to banking secrecy have already been decided by the committee's decision to clean up the second reading. So these key problems that have arisen in our colleagues, we've already made it clear that we're cleaning them up for a second reading. Colleagues, can all the law enforcement authorities like it? Obviously not. And those speeches, which may sound critical today, they will also arise and cause the D.B.I. to work more effectively than ever before. This law is technical, organizational, let's support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u11	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is there a need? Yes. Then I'd like you to sign two in, two in, two in. Please, Sergey Petrovich Labazuk, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u12	Please give it to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u13	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u14	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We do not fully agree that this is a matter of purely technical character. I believe that the functioning of the State Bureau of Investigation is a question of the conceptual nature of a part of the law enforcement system in our country. You know, I want to go to the majority. Friends, when you adopt laws, you should remember that authority ends sooner or later, and then you go either to opposition or you go, as they say, to adopt, or you just invite yourself to Lithuania. And the fact that some repressive dragon laws will apply to you after you get rid of them is something you should remember. And this is the same as the one adopted today by the law on the DBR. I think this bill, the bill clearly needs to be redrafted. We discussed a lot with colleagues in the session room, and we were actually doing everything possible to improve this bill. It is important to improve it for the second reading. We have much to worry about in this bill. It is important for us to explain the reasons for the obligation of banks and depository agencies to disclose to the State Bureau of Investigation information about legal and physical persons containing bank secrecy. We hope that the word that the committee gave to refine these positions to the second reading will be followed to the second reading in the session hall. We believe that the State Bureau of Investigation should have full district administrations, not monsters -- territorial governments, and district administrations in every area. We believe that the D.B.I. is currently conducting 70 percent of all investigations, criminal offences are war crimes, provided for in the articles of the Criminal Code. This should be taken away, too. So-called "voluntary," statutory rules of relations between military personnel, military evasion. These are questions that our MPs and colleagues are ready to discuss for the second reading and vote in the first reading in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u15	The word is given to the people's deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u16	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This bill is called upon to improve the legal framework for the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. The DBR infrastructure is being developed today, and we, as parliamentarians, have to support this judicial investigation body. We hope that in the near future, after a certain period of time, the DBD's pretrial investigation will take over the lion's share of all pretrial investigations, and there will be no such situation as now when more than 95 percent of all criminal conduct is being investigated by the National Police. As far as this bill is concerned. It regulates the formation, execution and denunciation of inter-ministerial, inter-State agreements, establishes the calculation of the internship of the regular and primary bodies of the State Bureau of Investigation, specifies the individual powers of the head of the State Bureau of Investigation, ensures the security of the employees of the State Bureau of Investigation, increases the number of employees from a thousand 600 to 2,000. Why is this so? Because in order to ensure operational action, the State Bureau of Investigation is now required to involve the National Police and Security Authorities to carry out its actions. We believe that by doing this we will build the independence of the State Bureau of Investigation. The questions on which the discussion was highlighted are all discussed on the committee. This applies to receiving written requests for access to bank secrecy, just as in the NABU. The committee stressed that this would be removed by the second reading. The right to create their own higher education institutions will also be taken away from the second reading. With regard to the activities of the expert agencies, the expert services, it was also a question of discussion, and the committee will take these points away from the second reading. Dear colleagues, I call on everyone to support this bill. It's important and it's only going to be about one thing: protecting the rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u17	Please, National Deputy Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, European Solidarity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u19	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u20	And again about my beloved D.B.I. I'll point out, this bill is an improper extension of the DBR's competence, which creates a danger of abuse and distorts its functions. But you don't get used to it: when Janukovic's lawyer was put in there, he was dealt with the field affairs, half of which were lost on the road, Greensky tried to usurp the D.B.I. and appoint his head on his own. I'm already silent about the persecution of the opposition. But all of these are dimming before the introduction of this bill. First. Establishment and provision of DBD expert services. I'll talk to the boy's mind. They manufacture the case themselves, investigate the case themselves, carry out the expertise themselves, and still have their own court to come up with. The creation of its own expert service is a violation of the basic principles of ensuring the independence of the judicial expert and the correctness of his findings. The other one. The opening of a bank secret without a court order. Oh, my God. Respectful association, watch the hands of shulers, may be removed through public pressure. Third. The right to conclude international interlocutor agreements between Ukraine. Now, please tell me this is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, not every state institution can itself have a contract making policy. Is it possible that the D.B.I. is going to denounce the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act because it is probably against Soviet law? DBR increase. Not only is there no financial and economic justification, but it's the ignorant absolutes who don't even know how to put the message into the order established by law. And now we're going to add the right to carry weapons to all debuteers, the right to remove, or maybe to drop drugs. So we're creating a Berivian NKVD. But in the context of the extreme tender announced by the D.B.I. for purchase (pay attention!) We can talk about the burial of democracy in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u21	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u22	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Clearly, one of the functions performed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is control functions. And in the context of a deep analysis of the activities of a government authority, in a case of law enforcement, such as the State Bureau of Investigation. Clearly, we have the right to critically assess certain aspects of the body’s activity. Indeed, we would all like to see that, as soon as possible, we receive appropriate punishment for their abuse or wrongdoing by state top officials. But I would like to remind you that in order for this to happen, the appropriate body must have all the necessary tools. Today, one of the tasks of the Supreme Council is to create the most favourable conditions for a law enforcement body, including an anti-corruption body, or the State Bureau of Investigation, to be able to effectively exercise its powers. And in this context, we need to look at the bill. What's relevant to the individual moments is the increase in numbers, the creation of separate territorial units -- almost everyone who's speaking agrees with that. The issues discussed today are the right to access bank accounts, the Deposit Guarantee Fund, and so on, it is really necessary to work out. Another point that needs to be settled is that the right to carry, the use of weapons, must be defined in a separate order. And I agree that those moments that need to be settled before the second reading, we're going to do it together. And today we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u23	Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u24	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u26	Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to criticize either Jermak or Zelensky right now, but please listen. Two months ago, the D.B.I.'s "Serial of the People" deputy conducted a search because he criticized the actions of the local authorities. Now, if the D.B.I.D. is able to conduct its own expertise, similar searches will immediately be sent to court. This bill is clearly not to be supported. You just put a mine under your feet, don't do that, please. When you get up, you're going to go to the President's Office, the first thing they're going to do is use this particular expertise to give you a suspicion. This bill cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u29	Thank you. Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, another interesting initiative on the part of the authorities. You can decide who you want to be: smart or beautiful. It's like there's a law. I hear Mrs. Galina wants to be there and there. It's hard, but you can try. But this law will not work, Mrs. Galina. I'll tell you why: because this law was passed in due course by the IMF and all the external partners, as it's customary to call it. What's wrong with you now? Follow the law that is, catch the criminals. No, we need to change something. We need to get the proper service under control. I understand what you're afraid of, so that you don't accidentally come out on your own. That's not how it works. Or for the people, or for themselves. For the people, you're afraid that the investigators will find you working for yourself. Thank you for your attention. We will not adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u30	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u31	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I don't agree with the previous statement that this bill was created on some condition in the past. No, he's already, if he knew history, he's been looking at this bill for 22 years, and no summons has been accepted. Only thanks to the eighth call, and, Mrs. Julia, thank you for bringing up today for the first time in two years that you've mentioned a good word about "poperedniks." Because I think that the eighth call should be said to thank you for the D.B.I. Act, the GPA Act, for the reform of the N.P.D., and so on. But why are we throwing a life cycle for the D.B.I. today? First, because in our time we adopted a bill and according to the Constitution, we called the DBR body a central executive body, that should be the case. The so-called 19th year reform, along with the GPA, decided to change these rules and called it, wanted more authority, and called it a state law enforcement body. After that, they were locked in the Constitutional Court, unable to choose their head. By the way, Mrs. Julia, I have no respect for the executive head. Where's the man you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u32	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the legal principles of the State Bureau of Investigation (registration No. 5305). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:37:22]] For 226 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement (to exclude the possibility of purchasing without the use of electronic purchasing systems) (registration No. 3715). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:38:05]] For 233 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Larissa Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! In March of last year, we passed the first antiquities law and amended the Public Procurement Act, where nomad purchases were completely out of the tender procedure. This may have allowed the authorities to cope and respond to the challenges of the pandemic, but there is nothing as permanent as temporary. And we've been in quarantine for over a year. Yes, there are unique instances of purchases of goods at openly high prices and questionable quality. Think about it. So far, 182 thousand procedures have been conducted for 37 billion dollars outside of the tender procedure. This was done by the district and district hospitals of the MOH. We've allowed Kabmin to expand this list by himself, 225 by decree, which has spread it from 200 positions of goods and services to 400. Now everything is there, from ZIZ to the boot, to the extremities, mattresses, and blankets. The ministry is unable to verify this and does not have authority. It's said that it takes them 100 years to buy them, to check them out. Instead, the State is now looking for ways to raise funds for medical expenses. That's where billions of misuses in whiny purchases are made. In June 2020, almost all of us, with faction representatives, registered a bill that returned the full tender procedure, were not supported by the ministries. So during the reprocessing, the positions of the ministries were taken into account, and today we are introducing this law to a short-term tendering procedure, specifically for medical purchases, but at the request of the MOH, we are leaving out of the supply of medicines, vaccines, medical equipment, oxygen so that in the event of the next wave of the pandemic, hospitals and the MOH can quickly purchase. So, colleagues, it's necessary to immediately return medical purchases to a competitive, simplified, transparent plane. And I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u34	The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Muchan Aleksy Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on June 3, 2021, reviewed the changes proposed by the National Deputies to Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on procurement without the use of electronic purchasing systems (registration number 3715) (worked) and reported that the changes proposed by the amended bill put into effect the quarantine period for the purchase of medical supplies, vaccines, medical, immunobiological products, waste materials for the provision of medical assistance to patients with COVID-19 and other provisions of the Bill of Medical Products. National deputies, members of the committee, believe that the adoption of this bill is necessary to further improve the implementation of measures aimed at preventing the emergence and spread, localization and elimination of outbreaks of acute respiratory disease COVID-19. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill (registration number 3715) (worked) as a basis and as a whole as a technical law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u36	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u37	Please give the floor to National Deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Voice". Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, almost a year ago in a working group led by Dmitry Nataluha, along with representatives of all factions, and with Larissa Bilozer, and with Victoria Sumar, and with Alona Shkrum, and with many of my colleagues, we wrote the law that was necessary to keep the country quarantined. This is a law that included tax benefits that helped our businesses to survive this period. It's a law that has rules for ambulances to quickly appear in our apartments, shops, so that we can stand quarantine. It's a law that gave extra payments, including to our doctors. But unfortunately, there were rules in that law that seemed very appropriate at the time: it allowed local authorities to buy everything they needed very quickly and in the process of bidding. We've been quarantined for over a year and a half. It seems to me that this is a sufficient period for everything needed to be purchased to go by without tenders. Now that bill that's being proposed is appropriate. I would even reduce the quantity of these goods that are being bought. But if there's a consensus with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the people's deputies, I think it's important to support it. Those drugs that are still being used in the fight against the pandemic, we're running out of tenders until the quarantine is complete. Everything else -- the roads, the park equipment, the school equipment -- I think they can buy when they're bought with tenders. That's why the Voice faction fully supports this bill. And we're willing to vote on it, both as a basis and as a whole. Really, I think sometimes we need to correct the mistakes that have been made in order for the country to withstand quarantine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u39	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u40	Quite honestly, my colleague Jaroslav Železniak now told the story. At first, there was a very good goal: that we should buy very urgently, because we don't have a mask, we don't have anything, we can't fight the SOVID. As a result, we buy without blankets and cars. 37 billion. I'll tell you how this scheme works right now. We have different hospitals. We have one great hospital, the best one for the OHMATDIT children. So this is literally two months ago, the MOH recognizes it as a nod. That's absurd. Why? Because they treat children who have no immune system at all. They're just being prepared for a bone marrow transplant, they're being killed by their immune system. And that's where they're going to bring someone from COVID. What, to kill everyone in there at all? Obviously, thank God, I don't think they're going to take COVID there. This status of a cadaver hospital is assigned to a derby, since it is then possible to purchase equipment without tender procedures. You know how much equipment has to be purchased in this year, for what amount. I'll tell you now: a billion 300 million dollars. The rate of subtraction from 20 to 40 is said to be God, because sometimes 100 percent can be subtracted. So the price of the question on this very same OHMATDIT, this cadaver hospital, is somewhere about 25 billion dollars. Now OHMATDIT is going to be scrutinized according to a law that cancels the solicitation of something for the independence anniversary. But here's this map with the cadaver hospitals, and they really need to be covered up. And in fact, in Larissa's law and in our common law, there are many positions that also need to be taken away, equipment should not be bought without tenders, it's a bad story. But at least so, let's shorten this list to specific positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u41	Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u42	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Good morning, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In fact, a year ago, an incredible thing happened in this room: you and I then agreed on something in one and all factions to produce a great bill called the Antiquities, which allowed us to buy drugs, masks and medical supplies and help business, and to clean up fines and checks. Then all the factions voted for it, and then it seemed to us that maybe COVID would be quickly defeated, quickly completed. That's not what happened. We've had quarantine for over a year. At the same time, those purchases, which are urgent, medical for drugs, for masks, for emergency services that need to be overcome by COVID, have allowed outside the tender and outside the ProZorro procedure, somehow under these procedures, under these drugs, under these so-called masks, all the other things that have absolutely nothing to do with medicine or saving the lives of Ukrainians. And really, it's a scary figure when today we realize that outside of the competitive procedure there were 130 thousand so-called cadaver shopping, they were actually buying anything from blankets, really, to shoes, to vehicles, cars and so on. And these purchases were made by 27 billion, friends, 27 billion dollars went beyond tender procedures. And worst of all, many of these purchases were made at a price that is much higher than the market price. And I think you've all seen and heard these scandals when you were buying things that actually cost 100 bucks for 1,000 bucks. So now, unfortunately, there's enough time to plan the purchase on COVID, and now we have to clean up these exceptions, leave out the tender procedure just really the drugs and the tools. So this "Fatherland" bill supports, it's time to ask both the government and the local authorities, how we strategically prepare for the pandemic and how we're going to live with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u43	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u44	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we hope that after the adoption of this law, transparent purchases will return to the Grand Building, especially in the Ukrainian system, and to the Ministry of Health. You know, I've just been asked why we don't want to be in the next session. Because we respect ourselves. Please tell me, when we say that the indigenous peoples, you want to pass this law on to an off-season session, refer exclusively to Crimean Tatars. [[Expression in Foreign Language]] For more than a thousand years, the Hungarians have been living in Ukraine. By the way, in Hungary, we are recognized by the indigenous people. I have a second question. Ducks, our Romanians, they live in modern - day Ukraine from the fifth century B.C. Yuri Dolgoruki, founder of Moscow, is buried in Ukraine near Kiev, in the territory of Kiev. How can these nations not be indigenous? When did the Crimean Tatars arrive, and under what circumstances? With Genghis Khan and Bati, they came, burned the Kiev. But it's a story, there's no claim. Kyiv then closed down all the Slavonic tribes, enabled him to develop Novgorod and build Moscow. Blood was paid in battle against the Tatar horde. Then I have a question. If the Mongol Tatars have burned us and we recognize their descendants as a native nation, please tell me why the Hungarians can't be them and the Russians can't. We have to be fair to everyone, I'm responsible for historical justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u45	Katchura, Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich, Katchura
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u46	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I'm afraid I don't know Hungarian, so I'll talk about the bill. Because really, the author correctly said that there is nothing more permanent than temporary. Because we're really asking everyone where the medical salaries are right now, we're asking why they're providing medical facilities right now, so here's the money. The answer is very simple: there can be no transparent and competitive purchase of any goods in non-tender procedures. I think that the bill that's been drafted is compromised and, of course, vaccines, drugs, medical equipment should be purchased on a simplified basis. And that bill that we worked with colleagues from Belarus, I think it's going to save more than a dozen million dollars of taxpayers, you have to remember that. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. It seems to me that the period that was then, we made the right decision then, but we have to return the tender purchases to absolutely all medical facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u47	Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u48	Oleg Valeriyovich, how's it going, the porters already filed a bribe for yesterday's bill? As for this bill that we are now adopting. It's a good bill. Because, you'll think about it, we sent 81 billion to a hedge fund last year. More than 70 percent of him just got blown up and stole. There are tenders, there are no tenders, they don't care. Think about it. Our government didn't use 15 percent of the hedge fund. They don't care, they bought drugs, they didn't buy drugs, they just didn't use that money. That's why we're putting an end to the budget. We're voting for this bill. Be a tender procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u49	Did you all say so, Your Honor? There are no more who want to vote, then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes that this law be adopted as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement (Registration No. 3715). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:54:30]] For 350. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, with the necessary technical legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement (to exclude the possibility of purchasing without the use of an electronic purchasing system) (Registration No. 3715). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:55:13]] For 355 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Transactions in the Supply of Certain Species of Animal Production (registration numbers 5425, 5425-1, 5425-2, 5425-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:55:54]] For 260 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Motovílovac Andri Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u51	My Law 5425 contains two alternative bills. All the bills are designed in close cooperation with associations. We ask for the support of committee bill 5425-d. He's in agreement with everyone, he's beautiful, we ask you to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u52	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kovalova Aleksandra Ivanovich, author of the alternative bill. Excuse me, it says here: Alexander Ivanovich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u53	Kovalov Alexi, political faction of "Serve of the People." I would like to begin by thanking the people's deputies to my colleagues who have joined in signing my alternative bill, and I think it's the best bill ever passed. Because it provides for the protection of our processors and the restoration of that fair rate of 20 percent of the value added tax, which will further reduce the cost of socially meaningful goods. First of all, I want to point out that the bread and the bread and bread products after the adoption of this law were expensive. And the journey took place for the most part in 30 years, in fact, independence. One second. My bill is also correcting a mistake (I think it was a mistake) for Parliament in terms of exactly lowering the added tax rate of 14 percent for the implementation of sunflower seed, because this year we have what was the biggest increase in sunflower oil itself. And I want to summarize this very bill that this bill is really meant to protect our producers who are implementing production in the customs territory of Ukraine. So I would like to ask my colleagues to support my alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u54	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Zablocksky Marjan Bogdanovic is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, please support the committee's option "d" we had an almost unanimous decision on this matter. In short, I would just like to use this time to say that Ukraine will see quite a lot of inflation this year. It's because there was a lot of emissions and dollars, and the euro, their money supply went up by 60 percent in a year, and that leads to a pretty big increase in prices in the world's markets. My alternative bill was designed to give Kabmin the right to reduce VAT on certain socially significant products for certain periods. I think it's not exactly the right time right now, because it still needs agreement with international donors, but I think that by the end of the year we'll probably go back to this issue, and I'm asking you to pay attention to this initiative. And I would like you to support the committee's "d" option, which will be reported by Danilo Alexandrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u56	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Daniel Alexander Gettmantsev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! What's this bill about? This bill on cases where, unfortunately, the Supreme Council makes mistakes. The Supreme Council makes mistakes that need to be corrected and that are now being corrected by this bill. You and I have decided to lower the tax rate to 14 percent for certain types of agricultural transactions. We have granted some aid to some producers and have carried the tax burden on others to be processed. For that job-generating conversion that creates the added cost of processing that we should support with you if we are to think about the future of our nation. Today, we have received numerous complaints from many meat, sugar, and milk processors that are actually at the point of bankruptcy because they do not meet the level of price formation in the field and are not profitable. In view of this, we're going to look at all the bills that were submitted by the people's deputies, and we've drafted our committee bill, which we're proposing in most of the commodity codes that we've introduced the 14 percent rate, we're going to remove this error, we're going to restore the 20 percent rate, and we're actually going to allow people to earn money, we're going to develop without any distortions caused by taxation. Please support Bill "d," which is a working MP, on the basis and in general. Because people are looking forward to this bill, people get hurt every month, we need to take it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? There's a need. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u60	Please, Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u61	Galina Vasilchenko, 118th constituency, Lvivščina. Dear colleagues, back in the winter, when we were looking at a bill on tax VAT, namely 14 percent for certain sectors, we insisted that this could not be done explicitly because it was a significant loss to the budget and a completely uncompetitive position for those sectors for which it was set up. It is good that the authorities admit their mistakes and return their fair taxes. But it is vital that the authorities do not make similar mistakes in the future. Today, at an extraordinary meeting, we will consider a scandalous government tax bill of 5,600. There's also a lot and a lot of harmful negatives for the economy. Therefore, it is important to think ahead, not then to correct these mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u62	The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u64	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! The changes adopted last year, from an economic point of view and the substance of the VAT, would have led to the economy of the cost of the processors in the purchase of raw materials, and only after the production of the finished product would they have paid 20 percent of the VAT paid to them by the buyer. In addition, such an approach should reduce tax evasion. The law came into force on March 1, this year, and today meat and milk processors have found negative consequences for those producers working in the official tax field. And we'd need to analyze it here, but we're not going to hear it today, so I'm going to give you a few numbers. 70 percent of milk raw materials are produced in Ukraine in the private sector, and 30 percent are produced on farms. Out of thousands of liters of milk, only 50 percent are processed, while in Poland, 95 percent are processed. That is, the shadow sector is so large, that the processors who are officially working have lost their competitiveness, and they're already thinking about how to turn into a shadow. The easiest way out is to turn 20 percent of VAT into raw materials. But the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Ministry of Economics were supposed to fight for lowering the gender price for domestically prepared produce. It's obvious that the appearance of a Polish dairy, a Belarusian producer on the shelves of our Ukrainian shops, is not a signal to power. But there were no suggestions for those we were expecting. Differential rates are essential because in Poland, 5 percent per meat, milk, bread for other products at a normal rate of 23 percent. This is national protectionism. But I now hold in my hands the appeal of more than 50 enterprises to the faction of European Solidarity. They're asking for support for this bill because they're "white" payers and they're suffering from the state's inability to bring the shadow sector in order and defend protectionism policies for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u66	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Please give the floor to the honourable MP, Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u68	Mikola Leonidovich Skork, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u69	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Our faction plans to support one of the alternative bills to the basic bill 5425. We believe that the issue of support for our agricultural sector is one of the key issues in the agenda, especially in the context of the discovery of a completely underprivileged country for today's agricultural land market. We have to take care of the competitiveness of our country in the agricultural market. And if, thanks to the actions of most that continue, Ukraine has in fact ceased to be an industrial state, at least we have to stay agrarian and maintain our competitiveness compared to that of Poland, to other countries. As far as the EU is concerned, there is a serious budget infusion into the agricultural sector that we do not have today. We don't have the absolute support of our farmers and winegrowers, we don't actually have the support of our dairy sector. This issue is largely a bill that does not solve the issue of protecting our market. So in addition to supporting the alternative bill, I call on the government, which I very much hope hears this meeting, to pay attention to our agricultural sector in conditions where, in fact, our farmers are left alone by one of the very acidic competitive environments in which they come into contact with the land market. There is a need to increase, seriously increase, the public budget to support our agrarian sector. And that's a question for most people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u70	Thank you. Time for the speech is up, let's move on. Labazuk, for reasons, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u71	Labazuk Sergey, Hmělniččina. Dear colleagues, many today spoke eloquently from this rostrum. But what I want to say to you is simple words from agrarians: enough to rape the agrarian sector and agrarians. We are assigning one form, another form, and today we can talk about equality or inequality. So I want to remind you of the session hall: when they canceled the VAT premium for agrarians, they promised to support the agricultural sector at least 1 percent of GDP. What do we have today? In general, there is virtually no support. So, my dear colleagues, I want to say that in most countries of Europe today, the VAT rate for the agricultural sector is 7 percent, not even 14 percent, as we tried to do. So today, when we return 20 percent, all we can get is to improve agricultural production. Agrarian wants stability and a clear understanding of how to work in the market, and of course support from the state. So for the future, we're against these movements, which every month for the agrarian sector is on the other side.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u72	Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. The Committee recommends, as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Added Cost Taxes for Taxation of Transactions in the Supply of Certain Agricultural Products (Registration No. 5425-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:10:01]] For 310 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Act (registration number 5425-d) to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code on Added Cost Taxes in the Taxation of Transactions in the Supply of Certain Agricultural Products. Please support and vote. [[11:10:39]] For 309 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the legal regulation of agricultural insurance with State support (Registration No. 5104). It's a second reading. Someone's going to insist on repairs or we can. Pussychuk? What adjustments? 4 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u73	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please, on the table, all our amendments. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, today, he is very special in the modern history of Ukraine. Today you have begun the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land. You did not look forward to hearing this issue before the Constitutional Court, you did not allow the citizens of Ukraine to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum so that citizens, as landowners, would declare their position. You don't care about this country, you don't care about the opinion of the citizens and what you said about the people, it doesn't fit in. All your actions are directed at one thing: the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land. Mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u74	I'll bet you vote number four. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:42]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 17 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u75	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, you know, this bill is meant to destroy Ukrainian farming. Unfortunately, if all the countries of the world are supporting their agricultural producers, they are developing small farming, a monopoly today is doing everything to depopulate the Ukrainian farmer in order to depopulate Ukrainian peasants. Please explain the purpose and logic of this bill. This bill is aimed at robbing a budget that is so poor today and today to finance and compensate for some fictitious, questionable damage to large agro-corporations. And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u76	I'll bet you 17 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:12]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 37, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. You know, there's a lot of agriculture, little agrarians that really need State support, and they need that support, including natural phenomena like drought, flood. But this bill, it's not for small farmers, it's for the destruction of small farmers, it's for the removal of a class of producers like small farmers, and it's for the cost of buying up Ukrainian land to large agrarian corporations. And, dear colleagues, let's still represent the Ukrainian people, not the unknown corporations, and stand up for Ukrainian agrarians, Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian land. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u78	37 lashes, Puziychuk. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:38]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 43 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, there is now a norm according to which agricultural enterprises carry out insurance for their property and other values on voluntary grounds. But the law rules out this position. Tell me, what is the problem with this situation? By the way, this position is contained in an article called " enterprise rights", not duties. This right is voluntary insurance. The answer is very simple: The bill is lobbying insurance companies. This bill is not to support farmers, it's not to support small farmers, it's to provide insurance. And it is their profit, not the protection of agricultural producers, that is the priority. I ask you to support my amendment and preserve the right of insurance companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u80	I'll bet you 43 Puzichuk's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:09]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 44 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u81	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dmitri Alexanderovich, we are back to a very interesting, very unique discussion of the laws that apply to the land that relate to the judiciary, which deal with violations of the constitutional rights of citizens. I would very much like to hear the response of a representative of the profile committee, how does this bill improve the position of farmers, how does it support farmers, because this is a lobbyist bill aimed at supporting insurance companies? This is a bill that will raise costs, both from the agrarian market and from the state budget. Let us now really take a state position: to defend Ukrainian land, Ukrainian agrarians, to protect the interests of the state, not lobby the insurance business. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u82	I'll bet you 44 Puzichuk's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:36]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Puziczuk, 51 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, this amendment refers to the provisions of the Insurance Act, which defines the obligations of insurers who carry out compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. There is a perfectly logical question. Insurance for the owners of vehicles, what's with the insurance for the farmers? These changes do not apply to insurance providers in the agricultural market. They don't even apply to just all insurance companies. Or any reference should have to do with the subject matter of the bill. I propose to rule out this position that goes beyond the regulation of this bill. And I'm asking the rapporteur from the committee to comment on why my amendment has been rejected and how civil liability insurance will have an impact on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u84	51 lashes, Puziychuk. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:07]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 53rd Amendment. Andrew Viktorovich, maybe five minutes? Yeah, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u85	Dmitri Alexanderovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, you have now advised not only me, but probably all the deputies present. You give a five-minute performance for two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u86	Your time is coming. I'm asking if we're changing for five minutes or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u87	I got it. But for two corrections of five minutes, explain generosity. Dear colleagues, the project identifies the discretionary powers of the authorized authority when insuranceing agricultural products with State support. It is the authority’s mandate to impose additional requirements on insurance companies that provide insurance for agricultural products with State support. There's obviously a diagram of how to create a market-friendly agricultural insurance market for insurers and not allow strangers. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u88	53rd Amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:39]] For-80 Z-53. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 57 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u89	Yeah, I'm good.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u90	Dmitry Alexanderovich, Amendment 84. And yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u91	We voted it, 54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u92	80.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u93	Ah, 84th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u94	84 amendments. Dmitri Alexanderovich wanted Parliament to be a place of discussion and yet to hear a representative of the committee. This impression among Ukrainian citizens is that the majority of people do not know how to talk. Well, they ask questions. Why does the majority keep silent when discussing draft laws? Just, uh, explain, please. Regarding the 84 amendments, colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the absurdity of the situation with this bill. The changes that should regulate the characteristics of providing State support to agrarians and the Insurance Act exclude the definition of basic provisions: “insured property” and “insured property”.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u95	Thank you. 84. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:10]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Are we done here? Next thing you know, Puzichuk. That's extreme, yeah, I get it? Puzichuk, extreme adjustment, right? Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u96	Yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich, final repair. But still, please, I'd like to hear an explanation from the committee's representative, why the glossary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u97	Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u98	Dmitri Aleksandrovich, 116 repairs. The answer to the question is, why does the glossary of the Basic Insurance Act exclude the term "insured property" and "insured payment"? Well, you explain, well, that's ridiculous. If there is no insured property, what will be the cost of compensation? Well, can you imagine the absurdity of this bill? Well, just explain, what are you doing? Can the committee's representative explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u99	Sure. Since this is an extreme correction, we cannot help but answer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u100	Thank you, thank you very much. I am very grateful to the Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u101	Thank you, Andrey Viktorovich. The position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u102	I thank you very much for your attention to the majority. But all the discussions took place on numerous jobs. So for the future, I invite you to these task forces, and you'll hear everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u103	I'm betting on the vote number 118. The committee was not supported, the explanations were just given. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:22]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yvchenko is 2 minutes. Right? Please turn on the Vadim Evgenovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u104	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, if someone doesn't understand what the problem is with this bill, I'll tell you. You know, we had a drought last year, and the agrarians actually didn't insurance their produce without the insurance market. And in the Odessa region, huge damage to farmers and producers in many areas. What is proposed today? It is proposed that compensation be paid, not to the State, for it is necessary to compensate the payment, but to compensate the premiums. So what I'm saying is that it's strictly lobbyist, because agrarians have to make reparations if they're going to have an insurance accident, and we're going to have to pay off the premiums, even if there's no insurance. What does that mean? This means that this law is strictly lobbyist for insurance companies. Everyone, including large agricultural holdings, will be afraid, and these agrarian premiums will be reimbursed by the state from our budget to the insurers, the colleagues, and if there are no insurance cases, the farmers will get nothing. That's the problem, colleagues. The very concept of the law today is not worked out with the average producers and with the small ones. The Agrarian Union of Ukraine, the Association of Farmers, they worked on the Tax Committee. But somehow they did not listen to these respected organizations that actually hold the Ukrainian village. These are small farmers and average producers from 5,000 to 6,000 acres [5,000 to 6,000 ha]. There's a problem here, colleagues, that you're trying to reach strictly lobbyist standards. Although we could support farmers who work especially in drylands and listen to agricultural associations that offered the concept of insurance because they needed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u105	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Thank you very much. Let's move on to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Improving the Legal Regulation of Agricultural Insurance with State Support (Registration No. 5104). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:28:29]] For 311 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 89 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration number 4692). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? This requires 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[11:29:06]] For 277 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to consider the matter and to make a decision at this plenary session (register No. 4692). Please support and vote. [[11:29:35]] For 270. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:29:57]] For 256 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Krawczuk Eugenia Mikhaylovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, not so long ago, we have adopted the relevant amendments to the Culture Act, which we have introduced into the legislation the concept of "Cultural Services Centres" and defined the order in which they function. I would also like to point out that above all, this is a story about the quality and accessibility of cultural services in communities, cities, towns and villages. To be consistent with this idea, we have drafted Bill 4692 to ensure that the cultural services centres already provided in the community are financed at the expense of the budget. In particular, the financing of the CTC was added to the costs that can be incurred by rural, rural, urban, and territorial communities. This is necessary for communities to receive subsidies, and communities themselves will be able to finance their CCPs as far as possible. In addition, we took into account recent legislative changes and somewhat adjusted the direction of funding. It's very important, for example, that we've completed art schools. The reform should not remain on paper, so please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u107	The head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u108	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! On June 17, the Committee on Budget Affairs reviewed draft Law 4692, which clarified the names and extended the list of cultural institutions provided by the budgets of rural, rural and urban communities. In doing so, the main purpose of the bill was to resolve issues related to the implementation of the 2021 State Budget, under which a special fund provided for subsidies to local budgets for the establishment of cultural services centres. However, the possibility of creating cultural services in the territorial communities is only a matter of recent changes to the Culture Act, which takes effect on December 4th of this year. So this bill, if adopted, should take effect simultaneously with the corresponding amendments to the Culture Act. This is also mentioned by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In general, the practical implementation of anticipated changes in further harmonization will require the operation of individual cultural institutions, such as cultural services centers, art schools, and studios. As a result of the consideration, the committee adopted such a decision. Recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 4692 to include in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, as a result of its consideration in the first reading, to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law with the committee’s proposals on the taking of effect of the Act at the same time as Law No. 1432. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u109	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u110	Sobolje, Fatherland. What's the bill about? The Supreme Council imposes on local communities that they should finance, not houses of culture with no money, no culture, no cultural arrangements, but that they should finance newly established cultural centers. Well, think about it! But go to any village under Kiev, these are the richest villages, whether they have money to finance the basic needs that they have to cover in culture, leisure and everything else. And at the same time, you owe it to them to finance it. Well, if that's what you want, take the funds out of the state budget, put them on local budgets, just like we're going to do, for example, after the restoration of cultural monuments, castles and other institutions, and then you can demand something from them. They cannot carry out their mandates, which are legally binding upon them directly to finance their local budgets. And you are giving them additional services. Then give me the money. How will the rural, rural budgets of the united communities finance this? Our faction is absolutely against it. And if you want to allocate extra funding to finance a culture, please do it from the state budget. So this is a direct violation of the budget code, this is a direct violation of the Constitution. You can't impose on local budgets any other stuff that isn't directly related to the local budget. Then add this funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u111	Bragar Eugene Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u112	Congratulations! For no one is it a secret that most of the young people in the village are fleeing. One reason is that there is no cultural life in the villages, because at the moment those libraries, those clubs, they don't do their job. The newly created centres of cultural services are to become centers and centres of cultural life in the village that support cultural development, the development of rural leisure. Accordingly, I believe that this bill needs to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u113	Babenko Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u115	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Larissa Bilozer, Trust Group, Winnitzkin, 15th constituency. In fact, it's a very necessary bill, it's technical, it's so that we can then allocate funds from the budget directly to the subsidy, so it's not only at the expense of the communities, but also at the expense of the establishment of these cultural services centers, it can be financed at the expense of public funds, so it's actually technical. And I'm asking you to back me up. Because we don't have to fund the buildings of culture, but we have to finance the cultural life in villages, villages, communities, so that it's not just a cultural house, it's so that kids can go to art schools, and local communities do rehearsals, and there's choreography, and there's more. So I think it's a very good idea, and we just connect. This bill is related to a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Cultural Act on the general principles of the provision of these cultural services, and this is simply a change to be made from the State Fund, the State Budget to finance the centres of cultural services. Trust Group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u117	Thank you. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. After him. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. After him, Scorch. I'm sorry. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! In this law there's one positive, it really is, it's something that changes the term that allows you to finance art schools. But when it comes to everything else, it's an absurd law. Let me explain why. The President orders the creation of cultural services centers. A lot of noise, a lot of noise, a lot of pierre. There's a subsidy in the state budget for the creation of cultural services centres, and it's there. But then they change their minds about giving it money, because big theft is more important. This law is passed, which allows local communities to allocate money to cultural services centers. Thus, without this law, they have the right to do so. They don't have that kind of money. They're really closing down libraries, they're closing down people's houses, they don't have money. Instead of giving them a subsidy, as provided by law, and as they wanted to do so, they are given an unnecessary law that allows them to do what they have the right to do. Obviously, our faction will be held in the voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u119	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. After that, we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u120	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! People's MP Skork, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, colleagues, we're so used to these beautiful names of "optimising reform" to cover really simple things, it's a reduction in budget spending, social budget spending on health care, education and in this case on culture. The last one is a mixture that should distract society's attention from what's really going on. You have to admit that this is a total attack on the social rights of our citizens, which were provided for in the 1996 Constitution, which you celebrated so well literally a few days ago, its 25th anniversary. Thank you for your attention. Don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u121	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna And invite the people's deputies, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill is not just about culture. This is a bill that deals with the question of decentralization, which is a bill that refers to the level of cultural services that are in the country. And if we don't now vote for the funds that were predicted to enter the village, we're going to take away our people, who are still in decentralization conditions, we're going to take away those opportunities. So I ask you to vote for this bill, this is the first step towards cultural subsidy. The Ministry of Culture will work with the committee to ensure that there is a cultural subsidy. And to anyone who criticizes this bill, I want to say that there was an opportunity earlier, in a previous call, to draft a bill that would deal with cultural subsidies, medical subsidies, educational aid, that was not done. So let's just make up for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u123	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 89 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget (Registration No. 4692). Ready to vote? As long as the people's deputies come along, I take it they'll all be against it, won't they? In general, can we put it? If you don't mind, raise your hand, I don't understand. That's it, I see. I'll put it to a vote on the basis of 4692. Please support and vote. [[11:42:33]] For 269 I would like to place a motion on the vote: according to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules on the Reduction of Half of the Deadline for Proposals and Rights and Preparations for the Second Reading of the Bill (Registration No. 4692). Please support and vote. [[11:43:05]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill. Announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, there have been two petitions under the Law that we passed, 5104. One statement from Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich. He asks that his vote be taken into account against the bill. And the second from the national deputy of Ionushas. He's asking me to count the vote yes. That's why 1:1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u125	You can change. I bet. Oh, no, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Consumer Rights Act (Registration No. 4185). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:44:14]] For 255 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Czernjev Yegor Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u126	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, this bill, on the one hand, is very simple, on the other hand, important enough to digitally translate the interaction between manufacturers, sellers and buyers. We want, we offer to make electronic guarantees, guarantees for electronic engineering. It's a paperless economy, a digital economy, another step. In addition, it's one of the requests of many transnational companies, including Apple, that I've also been communicating with to translate it into modern electronic form. I'm asking you to support this bill. I think he is. It's very simple, it's made in two articles of the law of amendment, especially there's such a condition that if the buyer wants paper, he can get paper. Please support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u127	The head of the Committee on Economic Development, Lichman Hanna Vasilovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Economic Development, at its meeting on February 17, 21st, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Consumer Rights Act (Registration No. 4185). The purpose of the bill is to dijitalize business processes and improve the service provided to the consumer in the safe handling of goods. In order to achieve this goal, the bill proposes to establish, at the legislative level, the possibility of electronicizing operational documents for consumers. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus makes some remarks to the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the bill will have no impact on the budget. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy concluded that the bill met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Of course, the Digital Integration Committee, in its conclusion, supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Economic Development, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act on guarantee obligations in the first reading and on a basis. I join, colleagues, in the words of the authors. In fact, it's a small but very useful bill. We know that everyone who buys a particular technique has to keep checks and guarantee documents in case of warranty. If there is no guarantee, there may be no such service. So if this is digitized, it's going to be good for every consumer, for every customer. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u129	Thank you. We can. Just Eurosolidarity? No, it's not just Eurosolidarity. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u131	Rudik? Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u132	Dear Society, I have heard here, in the hall, that there is a desire to vote both in the first and in general, this cannot be done. Our MP group makes a warning. I'll explain why. Before. What the bill proposes is for everyone to understand. So when you buy technology, you go to the store, he gives you a gift, he places his seal, and if, God forbid, you know who to come to and who will come to you and do this technique. This topic is particularly relevant in rural areas and in small district centers. What is proposed by the authors of the bill? That you go to the manufacturer's website, let's say that it's an ATLANT Belarusian refrigerator that occasionally dumps on the supply market: come to our website and fill out a guarantee letter, and we give you a guarantee for 10 years. So, I called my neighbor in Corsun-Shevchenkovsky, who's been doing domestic engineering for many years. He says that in the last year of the two shops that sell this household technology, no buyer wanted to do it for a variety of reasons. There is no Internet in rural areas. In small cities, people are not yet ready for this. If the drafters had predicted that this was one of the options, I think that would be good. Then we would gradually prepare the buyer. And maybe if we had four or fiveGs in the countryside, that would be a topic that would be relevant. We're blocking the market, we're not going to be able to sell technology in small and medium-sized cities. They're going to win from this, on a large scale, just the Internet stores and the Crucifixion, I don't know, or the New Mail. So, colleagues, let's be careful about dijitalization. By not taking away the benefits of this bill, we are working on these little nuances for the second reading, which will really enable people to provide quality services and continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u133	Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u134	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I understand perfectly the questions and warnings that have just been sounded. But it's very important to note one simple thing: the seller gives a guarantee according to the manufacturer's website. And that's why the question is that somehow someone won't be able to get a service as compensation for a broken thing or a thing that's defective. Therefore, the guarantee remains irregardless of the form in which it will appear. What we're voting on right now is critical for one simple reason. Colleagues, this is really about what we usually have to do in order for big institutional investors to enter Ukraine. We've got some court reform to do, and there's something else we need to do. This law is a unique case where we can only accept one or two lines after which institutional investors such as Apple, such as Amazon, are willing to enter Ukraine, open up their official representations here, and carry out their business here. This law on business liberalisation, this law on convenience for users who don't want to get paper as a guarantee and lose it somewhere. After you've lost them, you can't ask for repairs because they tell you to bring the original. We've all been faced with it, we've been dealing with it all the time. And this law just creates comfortable conditions, it takes away the stress that the customer has with the idea that I have to remember where my check is, and where my security is in paper form. No stress -- you go to the site, you go into your office, you get papers, you go and you fix what you need. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u135	The great Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u137	Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, the National Deputies! My point is that each of us buys a lot of goods, including from time to time the problems of maintenance, the provision of guarantees, and the result is the loss of written talents. When you look at this simple bill, but it's very practical, really, it's running liberalisation and choice. And the third. The initiators, the authors of the bill, allow sellers to provide buyers with secure vouchers and other operating documents electronically. The other one. As a consumer, each of us often creates inconveniences when he keeps documents in paper form. Often, guarantee vouchers are either incomplete, or the date is wrong. This takes away the risks. I understand that there are different generations and older people, but that means that we're moving forward, which means that we have a choice. And we're talking about this bill being absolutely promising. Because both the committee and the anti-corruption committee have given positive conclusions. There's a problem here that's more than just the risk of a mental or a time that's going to be removed. We will support the European Solidarity Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u139	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u140	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. You almost said the same thing I was going to say. Look, it's a really cool bill. What are we talking about, if very, very simple? You come to the store, you have a choice or you get, as you have now received, a paper display, to store it somewhere, then look for it, if, God forbid, you have a broken technique. It may no longer be of the same quality, you may be denied. Or it's your choice: get an electronic check for your electronic box, store it in an electronic office where it won't be watered, where it won't be eaten by a dog, where it'll never be lost. And when you have an accident, you come with this gift and they repair your technique. All of it. It's a bill just to protect our consumer. Is it against consumers? No, it's not. Is it against the investor? No, it's not. Are we against the national MPs we want to give our citizens more protection and a more comfortable service? No, it's not. That's why the Voice faction will support it as a foundation and as a whole. A great bill, I think, is really very progressive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u141	Scram. Then we go to the vote. Aloni Ivanovni, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Three short ones. First, my friends, it's a very simple bill. The truth is that we buy more and more technology and goods on the Internet. And we can't do anything about it, it's going to become mass, and we need to move forward with legislation that's out of date in the way that it is. The other one. Today, we live in a country that complicates things: complicates checks, complicates heavy taxation, complicates documents, complicates paper copies. We definitely need to make the country simpler, the public service simpler, and clean up the stress really for the consumer. Thus, electronic documents need to simplify this story and eliminate unnecessary problems and unnecessary stress. And third, it's very important to the Ukrainians. I want everyone to hear, at every person's request, at the customer's request, they have to give you a paper guarantee. If you ask for it and you want it, you'll get it in paper form, if you don't, it'll be electronic. So please, in the first reading, let us support. "Paternal" is for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u143	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act (Registration No. 4185). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:22]] For 330. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is. Sit down, please. There is an offer from several factions to accept this bill as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the necessary technical legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act (Registration No. 4185). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:13]] For 335 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Wait, don't break up. There are two bills, and there are also several factions to vote without discussion, if there is no objection, this is 3601, 3908-1. Thank you, no. I would like the vote to be adopted in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical regulations by the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for domestic violence and gender-based violence (registration No. 3908-1). Please support and vote 3908-1. [[11:59:17]] For 336 Decision taken. Next question. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to eliminate contradictions and clarify the definition of a lease (ordinary) operation (registration number 3601). Please support and vote. [[11:59:52]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. 12:00, break to 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u144	Good afternoon, dear fellows, once again. Let's get back to our work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. You are invited to consider draft decrees repealing the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Promotion of the Childhood of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and payment of a single collection to the budget (registrations 5153-P to 5153-P10). Are you ready to work? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Ulya Volodymyrna, is invited to attend. Is it? Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, you are well aware that Bill 5153, recently passed, has been called the Amnesty Law in the people, which allows for the legalization of property. I would now like to support my decision to abolish the positive vote in favour of this law. Because it's not an amnesty -- it's just the destruction and elimination of the middle class of the country. And what I want to stress right now is that it's about people who have worked hard to store their assets for the rest of their lives, including paying taxes, now this law, as they say, voluntarily has to fill in the zero declaration. First of all, it's not voluntary, because in the absence of this declaration, criminal and administrative responsibility comes next. Secondly, when the MPs, the president, the government officials filled out a zero declaration, you remember, hundreds of millions of cash were declared, property was declared, the churches, power, I don't know what was declared, and the MPs, the president, the government officials, the officials of all levels didn't have to pay taxes. And these taxes were introduced for the people. And that doesn't mean that the inequality of the rules, which means the middle class defeats that they didn't deserve. Second, those who actually have criminal, corrupt, shadowy assets are entitled to legalize them by 5 percent. Dear friends, it's not a fight against corruption, it's a legalization of criminal property in a completely unfair way. And that's why we demand that Law 5153 be repealed and that the middle class approach be completely different.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u146	The author of an alternative decision, the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexander Anatoliyovich, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u147	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill, called tax amnesty, is really no tax amnesty. In fact, it is another haven for those who have avoided paying taxes for years, while ordinary citizens have paid honest and transparent taxes on the income of individuals. If every person in Ukraine is now paying a tax on income of 18 percent and another 1.5 percent of the military community, then somehow tax amnesty allows people who are hiding from tax to pay 5 percent and get out of any responsibility. That is, those who violate Ukraine’s laws are entitled to a discount of 15 percent to avoid taxes. Is that really amnesty? No, it's not. This is a bill that is written solely to ensure that people who have been robbing the government budget for President Zelensky for years escape responsibility and legalize their criminal funds. This is happening at the same time as the Head of the People's Servant is filing a bill of so-called anti-tobaccos, which causes them to lose a budget of 2 billion dollars a year without VAT; this is happening when the "ministers of the people" are pushing a bill while the casino is paying 10 percent of their income tax while all ordinary businesses are paying 20 percent; this is happening simultaneously with the adoption of bills that billions of dollars send to the so-called President's projects while people in the country are poor. We see all this with you. If someone wants to legalize capital, if they want to get the economy out of the shadows, they have to land. The landings in prison, not in the "Slut of the People" political party, which now includes a smuggler like Slusarev, if you believe in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u148	The word is given to the author of an alternative decision by the Ukrainian national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich. Please. None. Please, the author of an alternative decision is Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. It's actually a law on no tax amnesty, it's a law on the extra taxation of ordinary citizens, and it's an opportunity for those who actually robbed the Ukrainian budget to avoid any punishment. I understand that most of the majority factions are young people, new faces who came to Parliament for the first time. They don't remember half of Ukraine standing on markets in the 1990s, sorry, in neighboring countries, like Poland, like Romania, the Czech Republic, and so on, and people at that time thought they were working in state institutions. Of course, these people cannot confirm today how they earned this money and how they purchased their apartments. And of course, if this 90-dollar apartment was made at the market, when the state couldn't guarantee anything to people, and people were forced to protect themselves, to provide themselves, that's how the question arises today. People who could earn a few thousand dollars at that time, bring in and buy a little property, today will have to pay taxes again. At the same time, people who made money. Tens of millions of dollars have been stolen from the state, they will pay a small 5 percent amount, and there will be no questions asked. So there's no social justice in this law, it's extra taxes for citizens. But this law was passed in violation of article 116 of the Rules, and that is why the Supreme Council’s decision to vote on the bill is overturned. Therefore, it is now necessary to support all the halls at least one decision, perhaps the first, perhaps another, and to deprive people of another tax. The introduction of taxes in this way is totally unacceptable and the looting of Ukrainians is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u150	The author of another alternative decision, National Deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u151	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. My dear colleagues, I think that when people entered the Ukrainian government on their own, everything went wrong, and the main thing is that the budget began to lose, the social benefits began to decline, and then the authorities in your face, the majority, began looking for ways to fill the budget. Well, that's wrong when we're filling out the budget at the expense of those people who have come out because of the difficult situation in the country and now have to pay taxes. It is wrong to fill the budget with the middle class who have earned their entire lives, and now they have to pay their taxes on what has already been paid. And that's not fair when MPs were given declarations and all the officials all over the country, they declared cash without paying any taxes. There is no social justice. And you are voting these laws today and you want to make them a standard of living, violating all the moral principles and principles of the Constitution -- equality and justice for every Ukrainian citizen. That's why, colleagues, these are the decisions that the Fatherland is making. She wants to reach out to each of you. You're not buttons. You're representatives of Parliament. You are the representatives of every voter who has voted for you. And you don't have to vote for bills that violate people's rights, including not establishing justice for officials and ordinary middle-sized citizens or employees who have gone abroad from a difficult economic situation in the country. That's why it's proposed to support this "Paternity" decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u152	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland". And you're the co-author, Ivan Ivanovich? It says here: Eutusek. Let me see. I've got the eutushka. Please, Sergei. And this is the co-author of your decision, isn't it? Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you're the co-author. Well, I'm sorry. Then Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. I just had it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u153	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Why did we order the repeal of the so - called voluntary declaration Law? This is one thing and the key one. In fact, the bill on the so-called voluntary declaration, it's directed against the middle class, against those people (and that's millions of Ukrainians) who in the difficult 1990s, when there was nothing to feed their families, they made some money. Someone at the market was trading. With higher education and not one higher education. Someone traveled abroad — Poland, Hungary, Romania — and tried to earn money to feed his family. And now, if all these Ukrainian citizens, this isn't about MPs, ministers, no one is concerned with officials, it's only about people, ordinary Ukrainians. So now every Ukrainian who has more than 400,000 dollars of property has to declare it and pay 5 percent of it. Please tell me, is that fair and fair in terms of the Ukrainians? It just drives the middle class into the shadows, again into the shadows, and it reduces, and kills any remaining confidence in the state and the authorities of the state. And when we look at what is being offered to the Ukrainian business today, and when they're planning to issue an extracurricular bill for the Ukrainian business, Bill 5600 says that now the government's income is going to be filled, and in fact 5,600 is going to go one way: to make a corrupt system, to turn a business into a shadow, and to make them pay not taxes to the state, but to make them pay bribes to the controlling authorities. That's what these bills are about. So I think we need to pull over and stop. Because we're going to make even the remains of working Ukrainians who work here today and pay taxes just go outside the country definitively. We demand that these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u154	The word is given to the national MP of Ukraine, Labunska Angela Viktorovni, the authors of the alternative bill. It doesn't, does it? Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Mr. Navejchenk Valentina Alexandrovich, the author of an alternative project.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u155	Mr. Chairman, citizens of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! Why is the Fatherland faction insisting on the MP's veto today? We don't just register these decrees, we ask the veto to impose on that bill that didn't solve the main issue, it didn't decide the issue of justice in society and people's desire to know where and why they're paying taxes. This time. And the second. Where is the fair punishment of top-corruptioners? In this Supreme Council, when we entered Parliament, we immediately registered two key bills to overcome corruption and fill the budget. The first bill is the irreparability of punishment and the lifting of the bail for all crimes, for all government officials involved in corruption. Where is this bill? Why aren't we looking at him in the hall, dear colleagues? Why don't Ukrainian citizens hear and see the will of the national MPs to cancel the pledge for top-corruption? One. Another bill. Who prevents criminal responsibility for top-corruption, that is, filling the budget? Where is this bill? Why do we not foresee eternal imprisonment? The discoverers of corruption, there's been a lot of talk, there's been no less discoverers, there's more. Corruption has become no less, no less. Why don't we see on the bench of the defendants in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court any punished top-corruption? We believe that taxation in the country can and should start with justice, that is, it is not allowed to break the budget. Let's talk about the main thing. As can and should be done with a convenient tax system for Ukrainian citizens. In Estonia, digital government and digital taxation have been working for so long. In electronic form, the declaration, in electronic form, the citizen's free access and full promotion: mark your taxes, that's your amnesty. And those who turn away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u156	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I warned the room, speaking out of faction when voted for this bill, I explained that it was not really about a tax amnesty, that it was actually about another tax option for the middle class remnants, which unfortunately today at the next meeting would be proposed to get another bill of 5600. This bill on extra taxation for wage earners who had left Ukraine to work abroad without good will. It's about defining as actually richer in our country anyone who's managed to make 400 or more dollars and buy (I think that's $14,000) a little less than some people get every month. So these people all have to be defined as big wealth and explain, and then put the money into banks, including the Savings Bank, they could put, as I suggested, which state would at least guarantee the refund. Yes, this law was also voted by the Council. And now it's only 200,000 dollars that the state promises to return to the human being if it does comply with this law and takes its money to the banks. This law on double standards, this law on double standards for MPs, officials and authorities, and for ordinary citizens, because when declarations were made, you and I, the people's deputies, were allowed to direct cash, not to require it to be taken to banks, put it into accounts, and the citizens who would use this law, you forced them to do so. I offered my rights not to do so and to place at least under the Constitution all in one condition. And first of all, why did I make that decision? Since there was a change between the first and the second readings to article 172 of the Tax Code that was not available, this is a violation of article 116, so it is to be repealed. Please vote. Think about what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u158	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Nina Petrovni, who is the author of the final draft of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, it is quite clear that the standards of the draft law are in fact unacceptable to you, you have already heard everything, and discriminatory and that they pose a threat to society as a whole. And the fact that anti-corruption authorities have not yet violated criminal conduct following the adoption a year ago of Law 786 on exempting individuals from tax on income income derived from the owners of foreign companies from liquidation, termination of such companies, is a matter of time for both the authors of such an initiative and for those who have made these changes. The state’s losses of tax-free disposal of controlled foreign companies amount to more than $10 billion. Remember, all Ukrainians, this amount. And behind them, behind these losses to the state, are certain names, beginning with the President, the Prime Minister, ending with the head of the committee. Now essentially make up your mind. Subparagraph 6 and 5 of article 121 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules states that the bill is not generally voted on if the non-adopted articles result in contradictions or omissions that preclude the application of the law after its final adoption and its taking effect. Dear Chairman, please note, after the Hall did not support Amendment 44, which the committee should be talking about, and not me, we had no right to adopt this draft law as a whole, because it needs to be finalized and reconciled with other articles. Because now in other articles there are other definitions of declarant individuals and persons who can't submit declarations. So it's not the first time, by the way, you make this mistake and then you have to make it later, or the laws don't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u160	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u161	The Honorary Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the draft decisions of the Supreme Council on the second reading and the entire draft Law on Registration 5153, submitted by the People's Deputies Timoshenko, Cimbaluk, Sobolev, Dubinski, Kabakenko, Vlasenkov, Yvchenko and Kirilenko, Krulk and Evtušk, Puzijczuk, Labunski, Njičenko, Nikolayanko and Južanina, and other deputies who are invited to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council on 15 June this year on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on Registration 5153. At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee adopted conclusions and adopted a decision giving Parliament to the Supreme Council to determine the further fate of Law 5153. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council decide whether to vote on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u162	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Is there a need for discussion? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u163	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues who will now make decisions! What is the need for such decisions? As long as the bill was discussed in the first reading, we had already warned the faction of Fatherland and representatives of other factions against one: well, how could two different standards be applied simultaneously to the President, the National Deputies, the highest-ranking officials, the deputies of all levels, including local councils, and all other millions of Ukrainian citizens? What difference does it make? All persons listed in the first list are required to submit a declaration. And this declaration has been made over the last eight years. A so - called voluntary declaration is now in place for those who have never submitted such declarations before. But the punishment for the so - called voluntary declaration is even more serious than for senior officials. So what is this voluntary declaration? The other one. Please tell me, how will you be able to tax, NAZK or any other body to verify all that has been earned by citizens to the official declaration order? No way. What is suggested instead? Everyone's been waiting for a zero declaration for millions of citizens this year. Then declare your belongings. If you have hidden something, pay an extra tax. No, in fact, fines are imposed on all millions of citizens who fall into the norm, so think about it, a one-bedroom apartment in Troy, if you take the Kiev framework. This is a law that contradicts the Constitution and common sense. Support our decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u164	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u165	A respected society, so historically, that I was born in Chernobyl in 1970. And my university and postgraduate studies took place during that period of primary capital accumulation, when 90 percent of my classmates began their mornings at four o'clock on the largest market in Ukraine at that time, the Chernobyl market, they called it "Kalinian". Those who could not make it to the Khalinian market went to Hmelnitsk. In another region, there was the largest car market. And when I was in graduate school teaching and teaching as my boss, writing my dissertation, they came for couples with sleepy eyes. These were in the Cherniewsky region, in Hmelnicki, in Poltavsky, I'm sure, and in other areas very many students. So that's how the capital was accumulated. Why? Because the teacher’s salary was then in coupons ranging from $5 to $7. And with that money, you could buy a block of cigarettes for those who smoked. That's it. And the state washed its hands: first the Soviet Union and then the independent Ukraine. And today, according to this bill, which needs to be repealed. Our parliamentary group will be behind the annulment of this decree. More correctly, we are in favour of this decree to cancel the changes to the Tax Code, and I apologize for recognizing the Ukrainians as potential criminals. They're not criminals! Criminals who speculated on Ukrainians! And we have to think about ending the age of poverty, thinking about making people a little bit richer, not starting the era of begging, the era of knocking and the era of disrespect for the honest-earned funds of Ukrainians that the state did not control, and now it wants to control. No, no, not again, this illegal control. We vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u166	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, in fact, the amnesty of capital was essential for our country. It was necessary to follow the authors of the draft law on how we moved towards the adoption of this law and what the philosophy of this law should be before it was submitted to the Supreme Council. You know that Ukraine has joined the OECD Advanced Cooperation Programme since January 1, 2017. This means that we have committed ourselves to implementing Ukrainian legislation steps that would allow Ukraine to fight for the payment of value added taxes in Ukraine. And it's quite obvious that these were mentioned in the turbulent 1990s, when capital was being accumulated, when different tax options were being used, including legislation, and they avoided taxation by stockpiling capital outside Ukraine. And in order for us to actually start reporting in Ukraine on such controlled companies, we had to let all owners of foreign companies conduct amnesty capital. And with regard to our middle class, of course, philosophy was supposed to be that everything registered in government registers was acquired legally. It's an axiom you had no right to deviate from. So what's accepted in general is a big mistake, understand. They'll come to each of you, not today, tomorrow. And why, I have one question, why did you bring up standards that the appelors have brought to the legal responsibility of ordinary citizens who will not declare and who have not even heard of this declaration? That is exactly what the GNEU concluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u168	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Then we go to the vote. The Gethmans are still motivated, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, we can call the bill, as you might think, a name can be changed, but not from the way the bill was written, it would be good or bad. He'll be nice when he works. It's called this bill, and notice about the voluntary declaration. But no one has introduced another bill: the obligation to declare, the non-voluntary declaration -- there is no such thing. At present, the citizens of Ukraine are not prevented from submitting a declaration, nor is it prohibited by law. And if a Ukrainian citizen has filed a declaration, and the law enforcement authorities that exist and all of them tell from this rostrum that they work have found those figures or those unpaid taxes on a particularly large scale, they are called to account. For this, there is a whole section in article 212 on voluntary compensation for damages and relief from criminal liability. What does this law mean by duplicating the standards that exist? No, it's not. A voluntary declaration entails a one-time declaration and a discharge from responsibility is a new mechanism. What mechanism of two that will exist will be in our state, right, someone can say? No, he can't. I think it's necessary, however, that the Opposition Platform for Life will support these decisions. Our view is that if we enter declarations and reveal all numbers, we need to enter zero declarations and then draw conclusions. There is simply no other way to unlock all the assets of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you. We'll support these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u170	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in half an hour, you and I were able to listen to the full meeting of myths and legends of opposition to tax amnesty. Of these myths and legends, it's probably true, but only the name of this law. You and I understand that tax amnesty is voluntary. And we've corrected these myths a long time ago. We understand with you that tax amnesty has nothing to do with our e-declaration and only relieves us of liability for tax offences. We know that tax amnesty does not require any control of the state over assets, because tax amnesty is not about control over citizens' assets, tax amnesty is not about reviewing their property, tax amnesty is about every person's ability to have a document confirmed by the State that its money, its assets are legal, is legal, just under 5 percent. I'll call you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u172	Let's go to the vote. Now we're going to have to vote on 11 decrees. I'll bet you a vote for the whole project. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:06]] For-95 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the whole project's adoption proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:34]] For-90 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. Let's see the factions. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption as a whole of the draft Decision No. 5153-P2. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:05]] For-92 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire project. Please identify and vote. P3. [[13:05:35]] For-95 The decision is not taken. The factions. Don't shout. Turn on the factions. I'll bet you a vote on the whole project's adoption proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:07]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Let me see. I don't have to do this. Thank you. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the whole of the draft regulation 5153-P5. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:37]] For-95 Let's see the factions. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:02]] For-93 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:28]] For-93 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:54]] For 104 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:19]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. Let's see the factions. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft regulation, registration number 5153-P10. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:47]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the draft Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Criminal Procedure for Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and payment of a single collection to the budget" (registrations 5156-P to 5156-P6) The National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Ulya Volodymyrna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u173	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Once there was an opportunity to correct the tragic mistake that was made by the "ministers of the people" when it was voted that the middle class had to declare its assets that he had spent his entire life earning, and with certain parameters, pay 5 percent into the budget with such a declaration of voluntary. I can say that only 122 votes in Parliament voted in favour of the middle class: the Fatherland factions, the European Solidarity factions, the last time the Voice, "For the Future", the OPCW, and even the Trust voted for the last time. I want to say that I kept this deposit, the middle class tax just to vote "ministers of the people" against taking that tax out of the middle class. And so basically, for people, that order of declaration and payment of 5 percent of the tax on all their property remained in certain settings. Now I'm talking about it being an involuntary vote. The involuntary declaration, and our next set of decrees, refers to the repeal of Bill 5156, which introduces criminal and administrative responsibility for those middle class representatives who have not declared their property -- such "voluntary" in paws -- and at the same time exempts the entire criminality of Ukraine, who in five percent will legalize their shadow goods. And so I ask this determination to support and give the country a chance in the middle class not to go to this destruction with the hands of "ministers of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u174	The national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Mikolaiovich, is invited to attend. No! No! You're not Yevtushek. [[B in m in s a l in]] Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u175	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. A review of the rulings of the previous bill showed that, unfortunately, there is no real discussion in the session room, and there can be no discussion. That's why I'm talking to the Ukrainians, the people who are watching us right now. Look what they've done. The last bill said that you would voluntarily declare your income and that you would pay the state 5 percent just like that. It doesn't matter when you bought it, how it happened, how you made those 90's of misery to feed the family. Thus, this law now shows that there will be no voluntary declaration. Because if you, Ukrainians, and this is the majority that voted you now, if you don't voluntarily declare your income and pay 5 percent, administrative and criminal responsibility will be applied to you for not having a declaration. Here's the whole volunteer thing. You'll answer, you'll be dragged to court, you'll be forced to pay bribes, you'll be told, wages, and then we won't ask you questions. Here's what's coming. They want every Ukrainian to be hung on a hook today, they want every Ukrainian to kneel down and beg him not to be jailed for what he has earned, and they want everyone today to become a fortress in Ukraine. And in a package with today's market for land, with today's 5600 law, where all of you, small and medium-sized businessmen, will put you on your knees and destroy you, get your business, today essentially Ukraine is turning into a country where business will be destroyed, and the rest of the Ukrainians will go abroad. These are the laws that are passed. And look, the only faction of Fatherland that comes out on the rostrum and talks about it. So when you go to the elections, think about how you vote, or you'll get laws that you can't essentially cancel right now, because most people don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u176	Labunska Angela Viktorovna is invited to attend. You don't? Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. No, it's not. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We insist on the parliamentary veto and these decrees to ensure that the following year, from September of the following year, you, the citizens of Ukraine, no longer have questions, claims and demands. Since this legislation, which is now being proposed by a majority and authority, provides that from September of next year, you may and will be asked for explanations about the payment of taxes. Moreover, you will be required to explain and declare all your assets, and this affects business (small, medium and other), and ordinary Ukrainian citizens who are not in business but are, for example, in public service or self-employed persons. It's an unfair system. We demand a just, transparent, and clear, and the same for all: both in power and not in power; both in business and for self-employed people. Understandable and accessible is one that exists in countries of the European Union, where declarations are indeed voluntary and accessible. Those who do not pay the tax are indeed subject to criminal punishment, and they are obliged to pay everyone to the budget. There are no privileged, there is no jurisdiction in offshore and offshore assets. See, offshore issues are so carefully handled by all authorities. Why? Why has no million, no billion, been recovered from Ukraine so far? Again, there is a caste of untouchables. Once again, they're afraid to raise that question. Justice is that it is stolen, and you, the citizens of Ukraine, simply understand the tax system — stable for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u178	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, regarding the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, standards seem to protect against liability for tax evasion by declarants. But declarations can also be made by members of the family of the first and second stages of the relationship of individuals who have performed or performed prominent public functions in Ukraine since 2010. I don't understand how, Mr. Chairman, the Head of the Supreme Council, you put to the vote in the second reading and in general this draft law if. I have a question then, why did we create anti-corruption bodies, why did we submit electronic declarations if the relatives of these people could now amnesty their money? And here we're told, you know, tools in the hands of other people, that everyone has to be afraid of the relatives of the person who's already made the declaration, to amnesty something. You have no idea what's going to happen. You set standards of double meaning, people will condemn their rights. It starts with a complete breakdown, and you'll never figure out what you've been trying to do -- whether you're going to amnesty those who are not part of the public service, or whether you're going to be able to amnesty the income of family members of such positions as the President, the Kabmin members, the Prime Minister, the national deputies, the judges, the state officials of category "A", and these are the customs leaders, the tax collectors. Please tell the people of Ukraine, do you really want these people to amnesty their assets even more, except that they've amnesty already, by making the declaration, everything below zero? I don't think there's anywhere to look for justice. What's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u180	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, against. I'm sorry. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Calchenko, Sergio Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u181	The Honorary Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed draft regulations, the registration numbers of which are on the screen presented by the People's Deputies Timoshenko, Soboljev and Cimbaluk, Krulk and Evtušk, Puziyczuk, Labunski, Yvchenk and Kirilenko, Nadavichenko, Južanina, Pavlenko and Friz, proposing to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council of June 15 on second reading and the whole bill (resistance 5156). Because, according to the vast majority of the authors of the draft decrees, this law was adopted, in their view, in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Regulatory Committee reached a conclusion on each draft decision and adopted a decision that allowed the Supreme Council to determine the future fate of the law. In particular, the Regulatory Committee recommends that the Supreme Council decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u182	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u183	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u184	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u185	Guys, I only have one request for you. Please hear what is said here without any political preference. Maybe you've already figured something out. I don't think the President will be able to sign this bill. We call on the President to veto this law. Veto did because there are some standards that are simply impossible to apply. They are really such a scoundrel on the neck of all our Ukrainian citizens. So don't just press the buttons. Now you answer to the whole country, to all the ordinary people, especially in front of the middle class. Now everybody's asking questions, and what do you want to do about that, please, 18 million of us have a working population? It pays EU taxes – only 10.5, everyone else continues to work either outside Ukraine or in the shadows. And now you want these people, who don't even hear about all these standards, to take such a hard responsibility. If you do not believe, please read paragraph 3 of the conclusion of the GNEU, which says that taxpayers who have failed to make the appropriate declaration and warehouse and the amount of property that exceeds the list that you have established, are considered to have violated legislation in part of the payment of taxes that does not correspond to article 61 of the Constitution, according to which the individual’s legal responsibility is individual. Moreover, the existence or absence of legal facts to be proved is legally established. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, this was written by our experts, your experts, who are responsible professionally for everything they write and put us in the hall. You can't accept such standards for people, so we're going to demand a veto along with all the people from the President. I hope he hears us. No political preferences.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u186	Anna Constantine's speedboat. Rudik? Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u187	After my previous speech, my colleagues here told me that I had made an ad in the "Kalinowski Market" in Chernów. It's not advertising, it's true, because in the late '80s, in the early '90s, in this Kalinian market or market, whatever you want to call it, there were thousands of people standing there: people with higher education, teachers, doctors, government officials, who were free of work, who were not at work, who were not at work, because they weren't in our country. I remember specific fates. Before I named them, I was able to get some. Stepan Starchuk. He's a man who's been my parents since he was 70 years old. He worked as deputy chief of the Czernovetsk Oil Authority, trading in the market. If only he was making money. When he was hit by a van full of goods, he almost got gray. And then he wasn't 70, then he was only 40. My classmate, Roma Terrid, I don't know if I have the right to call his last name because I couldn't get it, trade in the market, being the round difference between the Black Eastfak. They cut his head open because they wanted to take the money. His head was sewn up, and he continued to work. So he must have bought himself an apartment, a car, and thus ensured his life. Basil Dubovinsky, the almost round difference between the Black Eastfak and the market. Someone did not believe the state and went to Italy for profits, such as those in the Chernobyl region of thousands. They were told not to go, a new democratic power would come and give you the right to live in this country. Even all the boards in the country lied: the end of the poverty era. Poverty was overcome and people were led to a period of begging. Dear 73.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u188	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u189	Thank you. I loved the mention of the Kalinian market and the profits in the Kalinian market in the '90s. We all remember what this is, and we all remember what it was like in all the cities of Ukraine. So for these people who made that money then, without having any documents on them that made that money afterwards in zero, and then in the envelopes that made them from business that don't have any document that confirms the origin of that money, we're also making it possible to tax amnesty. No matter who asked them in Ukraine or abroad, where did you get that money for the purchase of a car, an apartment, or something else, he showed the declaration and said that it was legal? It's for the people, it's for the middle class. And it's a right, it's a human right to take part in tax amnesty, not all these horrors, fairy tales and lies that you and I heard during a series of regulations that gave me a personal sense of surrealism. For the law that you demand to reject today is not responsible for nonparticipation in tax amnesty. Don't lie! Or open the document and read it eventually. Stop lying. This law on discharge from responsibility. Freed from any responsibility of those who take part in tax amnesty. Please don't support any decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u190	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. After that, Shahov. Then we go to the vote. There will be more Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, you have just listened to an emotional speech that deserves attention. But I want to pay attention to the key point in this speech. Amnesty occurs only when the fact of the offence is established and held accountable. Everything else is not an amnesty – it's the same lie that this bill says it was voted on! And look, in the bill, I haven't said for the first time about the first performance, not enough time. But there is one moment. And who's going to appreciate what to pay 5 percent of?Oh, my God! There's no law. What's the value of an estimate, a market, a nominal? What's the law? None. I've estimated in 20 bracelets, I've invented, I've done, I've paid? But it's not the law. You have to read and write those laws that say, enter zero declarations, not make it voluntary, and you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u192	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u193	Dear "servants"! More specifically, they are not respected after this law. You wanted millions of citizens to come with a warrant? So immediately the head of your committee came to this rostrum and declared his appearance with duty. So he directly stated that millions of citizens were working abroad -- declare and pay for what you've earned there. Millions of citizens worked in markets when you were expelled from factories, factories, schools, hospitals? Come and pay this 5 percent! And if you don't, you'll pay 15! That's all volunteerism. Support this decision project in any way. This will somehow protect those 20 million citizens who have been thrown into the streets by the State, who are now being forced to become slaves, who will be hooked up and blackmailed. Support the draft decree by at least one, and this will save these millions of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u194	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u195	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dmitri Alexanderovich, I will speak more quietly so as not to be blocked. Dear colleagues, really, I agree with my colleague Sergey Rudik for a thousand percent, I was in that black market. My mother and I worked together to feed the mining family who were left behind when the mines were flooded. And one energy deputy prime minister drowned and killed the state's energy, giving everything to the oligarchs. And for today. We've been reminiscing about those cows for 10 years. You're raising your retirement age today, and you have to lower your age. We need to get the scrapers back from other countries. We need to give jobs and thus fill the budget when people work, live in their families, feed their children, raise their children at home, not in Rostov, in Peter, in Moscow, in Poland, or in Europe. Therefore, the honorable "ministers of the people," work for the Ukrainian people, not to defile ten skins.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u196	I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:03]] For-103 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the whole project's adoption proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:28]] For 105 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:52]] For-100 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. I'll bet you a vote on the whole project's adoption proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:19]] For 101 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. The factions. I can hear you, don't scream. Let's see the factions. I'll bet you a vote on the whole project's adoption proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:49]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:14]] For-103 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:39]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17.06. 2021 on the adoption in second reading and as a whole of Ukraine's draft law of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Ensure of Independence of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting (registration No. 4107-P). The National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u197	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable members of the People's Parliament, the draft Order, we propose to cancel the decision on the adoption of the Act amending Ukraine's laws on ensuring the independence of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Why? Well, first of all, because the name of the law doesn't fit the meaning, because it's the law on not the independence of the National Council and the creation of a full-fledged regulatory body, and it's the reverse of the dependence of the National Council, the decommissioning of the Constitutional Regulatory Authority of the National Council on television and radio broadcasting and the conversion of it into a penal institution after the suppression of any alternative opposition thought that the government doesn't like. Everyone remembers the consideration of this bill, and in fact the head of the profiling committee expressed from this rostrum the essence of this law in his hateful statement against democracy, directed at any other point of view. I hope that both the D.B.I. and the B.B.I. and the Attorney General will give a proper assessment of the statement by the official of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And what's added to the bill is that this law violates fundamental constitutional principles and positions. This law, the provisions of this law, the draft law, do not comply with the rules of the State Service Act, the Prevention of Corruption Act, does not comply with the Budget Code. Moreover, it was adopted in violation of the legislative procedure provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, this law is approved in conditions where the authorities allow themselves in a non-convictional way to shut down opposition independent television organizations when virtually any information policy on Donbassa and Crimea has failed at a time when censorship is actually being restored through the establishment of so-called centres.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u198	The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Calchenko, Sergio Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u199	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting, reviewed the draft Decree (registration 4107-P) on the annulment of the Supreme Council's decision of June 17 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on Registration 4107. The draft decree was made by the People’s Deputies Paulenck, Shufrich, Plačkowa, and others, with only 21 signatures. According to the authors of the draft decree, Law 4107 was adopted in violation of the Rules, which is why the authors refer to the draft decree. The Regulatory Committee adopted the conclusion of the 4107-P bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u200	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u201	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u202	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u203	Thank you. We did not support the bill because it did not guarantee the independence of the Nacradia members, although many of our constructive rights were taken into account. But it is by this decree that OPCW is at war with Nacradia to protect anti - Ukrainian, anti - state television channels. So we can't support this decision either, because it's the promoskian trends that cause, in particular, the deportation that takes place at these moments. Now listen very carefully to the sanctions lists that were created two months ago. Yesterday a volunteer fighter, a veteran, was arrested in the White Church, who somehow found himself on this sanctions list appropriately. He wasn't allowed a lawyer, any escort. About an hour and a half ago, the public happened to know about it, but a lawyer was admitted to it, although he was already put on a bus to be deported. He is a Chechen himself, he has Russian citizenship, that is, we have sentenced him to an exact death, either in a prison or in a prison, or simply a person has not even reached the prison. At the same time, he has no criminal misconduct in Ukraine. All he has is a fight for Ukraine. He is a foreigner who has come to protect our nation, and now the state does so with him and other volunteers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u204	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u205	Yes, Bobrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u206	Bobrowska, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u207	A long-awaited bill that the Council finally adopted after tens of hundreds of rights from the Fifth Column in the Council. And it is not surprising that today this decree to repeal the Supreme Council's decision to adopt a second reading of the bill has been registered. But I'd like to talk about something else that actually, I think the Nakrad is not working that's in this warehouse. And God will let it finally restart and start a normal work process of monitoring and monitoring, of building up the Ukrainian network, primarily for speaking in border areas that, by the way, as in the southern part of the Atonement, are not heard or heard. In particular, the House TV channel, which is not in a temporarily occupied area, has actually come out as a completely funky project. But what's more, I want to tell you about my story with the Nacra, which, God willing, is going to restart, and I'm really looking forward to it. When, in fact, ten months after five, six, seven appeals and queries, finally, the Nakrad issued its direct function, went to the "Our" channel, which in its time of August 24, 20th, challenged Ukraine's independence and the referendum, in which the Ukrainians voted that they wanted to see Ukraine as a constituency independent state. Such things need to be sung and worked out. So let the law work. Clearly, the Voice faction will not support the 4107 bill and will definitely oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u208	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u209	Please give the floor to the Head of the Committee for the freedom of speech of Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u210	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u211	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. The best is the enemy of the good. What we're doing with the Nacradu Act is we're actually repressing freedom of speech by strengthening the regulator's authority to use them to fight freedom of speech. There's no other position here. Dear colleagues, I've had arguments and discussions in the hall that I seem to have opposed the Crimean Tatars of our citizens to recognition as natives. No, I'm in. I'm honest with you. I really take into account that in 1441, Genghisid Hadji-Gerai created the Crimean machinery after the destruction of the Golden Horde. We know the relationship with the Crimean Khanty, how many different actions we had. Sadly, there have also been cases of our Ukrainians being taken into slavery by our beloved women. But we went over it, all of it, it's gone. They conquered their territory, entered our territories, and were normal. We're admitting them now. What about the Hungarians? For example, the Kingdom of Hungary had a dynamic multi-century marriage with the Kingdom of Galican, that is, our Kingdom of Lviv. Why, then, are the Hungarians who have lived there for a thousand years not a native nation? The Romanians lived there for 2.5 thousand years, not a native nation. Bulgarians, Jews, many people, I say again, Russians. So I ask, in support of the recognition of Crimean Tatars by the indigenous peoples, that other nations that have lived in our territories for a thousand years or more should also be recognized as indigenous peoples. For example, like us Ukrainians, we are the indigenous people of Hungary -- and there are no arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u212	Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u213	I propose this draft decree not to support but to go to the vote and consider more important bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u214	Thank you. Let's go to the vote for the ruling. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:34]] For-24 The decision is not taken, the decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, the next question is four ratifications. Heratchenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, we would like to draw your attention to the following. These issues were discussed at the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday, and we've pointed out that ratifications need, first of all, the conclusions of the Minfin, because this is a very serious engagement of the Ukrainian State from our partners, and here we need to have the same conclusions of the Minfin, the conclusions of the Anti-Corruption Committee, and we need to draw the conclusions of the GNEU. There are no documents here, and the conclusions of the GNEU that we have received later point to a serious lack of such funds in the Budget Resolutions and corruption risks. So our proposal is to postpone consideration of these resolutions and ratifications so that we can get the right conclusions. Notice that there are no representatives of the Ministry of Finance on the government stand right now, and so we don't know if we're going to have the funds then in the budget resolutions. Because in several of these documents it is about co-funding the state of Ukraine and the French Republic. And that's why we'd like to hear the government's conclusions here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u216	Can we move on to the subject? I'm betting on the vote on Heratchenko's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:26]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Your proposal is not supported. So let's get to the point. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for strengthening the protection of the population, territories and environment of Ukraine against emergencies (registration No. 0115). Look, we've got four ratifications here, I'm proposing the first one with a discussion, the next three with no discussion. Thank you. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:48:17]] For 266 Decision taken. Minister of Internal Affairs Avakov Arsen Borisovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u217	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Today, on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, I have the honour to present to you four draft laws on the ratification of signed agreements between Ukraine and France. This is the result of hard work and negotiations conducted in recent months by all the ministries and enterprises involved. In particular, I would like to thank the people's deputies who were actively involved in the French-party talks, and in particular the part of the Ukrainian interest in the localization of production. Head of the Group of Friendships with France, Deputy Ludmila Buymister, Alona Skrum, as well as the heads of the Committees of Dmitry Nataluh and Yuri Kissel. Thank you for your work. Now it's about four projects. The total funding for these projects is over 1.3 billion euros. The largest and most important project to upgrade the Ukrainian Railway Electric Locomotive Park to an amount of 882.5 million euros. The project plans to produce 130 new electric locomotives for Alstom: 80 two - system and 50 single - system electric vehicles. We're going to replace the existing locomotives that were built in the 1980s and some in the 1960s. Some of the locomotives have been available for 50 years or more. They're called, for example, VL80. VL is Vladimir Lenin 80 to make sense of it. The project has 35 percent localization in Ukraine. Before that, it's Zaporozhye. Some 7,000 jobs will be created. The term of credit is 10 years. Grace period is 3 years. The direct treasury loan is 350 million euros. Bank loan is 400 million euros. The treasury loan is 0.47 percent year-on-year, the bank loan is 2.2-2.7 depending on the current situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u218	Thank you, Arsen Borisovich. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union Klimpus-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna is invited to attend. Excuse me, head of the committee Melnik Pavel Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u219	Dear presiding officers! Dear Ukrainians! The purpose of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the strengthening of the protection of the population, territories and environment of Ukraine against emergencies is to implement an internal state procedure to ensure that Ukraine is bound by the Framework Agreement and that it becomes effective. The draft law is designed to carry out internal procedures for the conclusion of the Framework Agreement. What I'm saying is, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there's been a critical situation in the fire department with modern technology to ensure that fires are extinguished and people are rescued from high-rise buildings. The available technology has been in operation for over 40 years, and 90 percent have already completed all established operating terms. The need to acquire such a fire - burning technique in European production is primarily due to the fact that it has never been produced or produced in Ukraine for that time. The framework agreement on official support for strengthening the protection of the population, territories and environment of Ukraine provides for the provision of specialized rescue technology for higher buildings, namely automobiles. According to the explanatory note to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic, the purchase of fire ladders will be carried out at the expense of the state budget and state loans to equip the DNS sub-units. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union at its meeting on June 30, 2021, adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the basis and in general. Colleagues, please vote and support the ratification of this important agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u220	Thank you. Please sign up for two, two, against the factions. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u221	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u222	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u223	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, you know, we often turn to our international partners for support. So today we're looking at four ratifications where the support of our nation really is. All four ratifications will be supported and called on the entire House to vote. Dear colleagues, you can look at the credit rate of the last ratification, I want to emphasize, 0.0092. Tell me, who else in international partners is willing to give our country one hundred percent? If we, the people’s deputies, do not vote for it, then what support do we still want from our French partners? Therefore, from the Ukrainian Parliament, we should thank our partners in both Normandy and the help they are helping us in South Africa in various international diplomatic fields. To thank and show by our vote that the constitutional majority vote and ratify all these international documents and get help from our French partners. Thank you and we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u224	Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u225	Please give me the word Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u226	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u227	Alona Ivanovna's Scrum, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, these are four major intergovernmental agreements, four contracts with a sum of 1 billion 300 million euros. Most of these talks took place for more than three years. And we remember many of the problems with these covenants. Two social agreements: it's water supply and improved water quality in the Luhansk region and Kiev with a loan period where we don't pay anything for several years and then a loan of 0.0003 percent, that's almost a free loan. Two other contracts are Alstom locomotives. It's not some company that's not known, it's one of the leaders of the world that makes these locomotives. And the most difficult negotiations we've had were with regard to the location of these locomotives. Because if you look at the position of the minister of infrastructure from January, the location was 12 percent. Thanks to the concerted work, thanks to the arrival of Minister Bruno Le Mer, thanks to the work of the head of the Intergovernmental Economic Commission for Economic Cooperation of Mr. Habakkuk, we now have 35 percent to 35 percent. Parliament will now have to follow this localisation and follow the commercial contract after ratification. The location begins with the eleventh locomotive. But from the first locomotive, we're going to start buying alarms, buying other things, teaching our engineers, maintenance, auto parts, and other things. So, colleagues, it's a pretty historic thing. There's a lot, I know, of course, of fellow loan issues, on terms of terms of service. With this, of course, we will be exercising parliamentary control, but these four agreements, I think we have absolutely to ratify. A large number of government officials, embassies, French colleagues, and I think that this could be a joint victory, and the Localization Act in the future, of course, has to be adopted in the second reading at last in order to record this rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u228	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u229	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are now considering an important international ratification and so today, at this very moment, is the time to mention our international friends. It's Canada Day. Day of Canada! Fete du Canada! I think we should say hello. Let's say hello to everyone together, because Canada is really a country. Dear friends, let's welcome our Canadian partners, because this is the country that is really helping Ukraine today, and we see that France is also a true friend of our country. We are considering important ratifications that will allow for the involvement of serious resources in a very favourable percentage of our French partners. As co-chair of France-Ukraine's friendship group in the last call of the Supreme Council, part of this work started back then, it's always a long process, but we see a process that comes to an effective conclusion. In fact, today, especially when we talk about the need to improve the quality of water, buy the ladders that Ukrainian cities so need, because we have huge buildings, and people's security is not actually guaranteed, because our firemen, although they are absolute heroes, are not today provided with the necessary technology, the necessary quality. So, friends, let's support, let's thank our international partners from all countries that support us, especially at this point in the war against Ukraine by our neighbour of the Russian Federation, it's particularly important to understand and understand who our friends and brothers are. So let's say thank you to the French partners together. Merci and nose amis franc? Ais! And let's vote together for this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u230	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u231	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Respectable colleagues are certainly to be supported by these ratifications. This is also a localization, and our businesses will be involved, for example in Ninja, Mikolayev, and other cities in Ukraine. And we certainly expect to continue with the program. We know it's the second package of ratifications, and we're talking about funding specific regions and primarily regions that unfortunately are now affected by the Donbas conflict. And from whom do we now receive real direct help? From the state of France, which is our strategic partner and member of the Normandy format, and which contributes in every way to ending the opposition and the war on Donbassa and bringing peace back to our country. So these programs have to be supported. Of course, we have heard that Vladimir Lenin is still driving us today, but perhaps this time is running out, the time has come for the construction of his own locomotives. Of course, we also remember the popular Luhana factory for steam and electric vehicles, but we believe that domestic production will be restored. And today, we need to support cooperation, I emphasize, with our strategic partner, who is opening up broad funding as specific programs related to ensuring the viability of our country's infrastructure development, which will contribute positively to the development of individual regions, and certainly to regions that have suffered as a result of war. Therefore, there should be no politics in this matter, all of us need to unite in order to demonstrate unity to our French partners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u232	Thank you. Nataluha, Ironman. Then we go to the vote. Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich. There'll be a Bacon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u233	Thank you very much, dear colleagues! I would really like to thank the head of the Ukrainian-French Group for the cooperation of economic Mr. Avakov, and to convince you that Parliament has done everything possible to ensure Ukrainian interest in this contract. To date, 35 percent of the localization that we have actually achieved has sounded. This is about 455 million euros, which make up 35 percent of 1.3 billion euros in credit. And that's exactly what a thing like the localization we've been focusing on since 2019 has done. Colleagues, this is a direct indication that the time for localization has come. And this contract presupposes that this bill will soon be put into the hall for second reading, adopted and voted in favour of the Ukrainian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u234	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u235	Colleagues, these are the decisions that show that the word "localization," including in the Ukrainian economy, may sound positive. And this is a really positive example when, without violating our international obligations, by not leaving the World Trade Organization treaties without deceiving our international partners, we contribute money to our job creation. That's why this is a good example of localization. Unfortunately, the other initiatives that we have in our Parliament do not meet the criteria mentioned above. So let's look at the word "localization" on a case-by-case basis. And in these regulations, once again, this is a great example of how you can localize the production of Ukraine, create jobs and not break international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u236	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u237	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Secretary of Internal Affairs! Dear National Deputies! Our country, whose proud name is Ukraine, is developing and moving daily toward European standards. And we need the help of international partners on this difficult path. Some of our partners support us with words and others with good, real deeds, good things. For example, a cheap loan from our Polish neighbors. For example, low - interest cheap credit money from the French Republic. The "Trust" MP will definitely support this ratification. And we urge all of you in this room to support our country's development into European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u238	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for strengthening the protection of the population, territories and environment of Ukraine against emergencies (registration No. 0115) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:05:28]] For 338 Decision taken. Next question of the agenda. Colleagues, I understand that no one insists on anything other than the EC. Irina Volodymyr is two minutes, and we vote. Please turn on Heraszczenko's microphone from the spot. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u239	My dear colleagues, I certainly think that the Parliamentary Hall has several things in common. First. This is our understanding of the need for friendship with the French Republic. And there's no doubt about it. The other one. Support for ratifications of international instruments. But I would very much like our faction to have a professional conversation. First. The Presidium of the Supreme Council continues to speak of the need to comply with the Rules. And we're just paying attention to the session room for a few things. According to the Rules, there must be a conclusion of Minfin, and there must be a conclusion of the GNEU. Unfortunately, there is no record of these documents. They just came in from the government, and we don't have very important analyses today on corruption risks and relative financial opportunities. The other one. It's a very fashionable, beautiful and correct word for "localization." We're just pro. But so far we're voting with you solely for funding, for lending. Because the government that sent these documents to the session hall unfortunately did not provide for localization funds in the Budget Resolution. And here's what we're talking about and tomorrow we're going to ask the Prime Minister this question. Third. Unfortunately, this bill also excludes the ProZorro system. And we were recently, for example, at the Krukow Wagon Factory, at the Panutin Wagon Repair Plant, which is losing jobs today, there are absolutely no orders. And I think France today is showing a very serious example of economic nationalism in this session room when it provides jobs for France, including Ukraine. We only urge you to have a serious professional discussion that can unite the hall. Of course, we're friends with France. But they wanted to hear the answer from the government, so where is the localization where the money in our budget is to support this project? He's not in the Budget Resolution. And that's what we need to hear from the government today. There are no such answers. We urge you to have a professional discussion. Friends, do you understand what this is about? There's got to be a minister of finance here right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u240	Thank you. We have the conclusion of the committee, we have to trust him, because he is also headed by the representative of your faction, John Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze. I'm sure you can support them. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the renewal of the fleet of freight electric locomotives of the Ukrainian Railway Association (Registration No. 0116). Please support and vote. [[14:08:49]] For 331 Decision taken. Next draft of the law. Let's go to the polls for two minutes. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u241	Thank you, Your Honor. We want to draw attention to the fact that our faction insists that such serious ratifications on the profile committees be represented by all the profile ministers. And unfortunately, you've just noticed, Mr. Head, that the committee of profile on Euro integration considered and accepted all these ratifications, it wasn't quite so, there was a proposal, including a free vote. But what's very important is that, for example, Mrs. Stefanishina's V.I.V. was no longer present for the P.I. meeting three times. Just as the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to answer questions that concern our faction. We're in favour of strengthening Ukraine's international contacts, but we're in favour of economic patriotism so that we can understand the answers. Obviously, we're now looking at issues related to improving water supply, these are important projects, we're supporting them absolutely. Because it's obvious that water for Kiev and water for territories affected by Russian aggression are key, it's really a matter of security. But it seems to me that we would increase the position of the session hall, including the unification, if there was a demonstration here that we are a parliamentary-presidential republic, that the government should answer questions and report to us, as they actually see Ukraine's reinforcement in this ratification, where the Ukrainian economic interest is here, which companies are the ones that will be involved in the localization. And how it's going to happen, which is what so many colleagues here have been talking about, but so far it's never been, parliamentary control. You don't have parliamentary control. You don't have ministers coming to profile committees, you don't have vice-premiers coming to the committee. Your "hour of questioning to the government" has turned into a "boo-boo-boo" where no one listens and no one has a report. And I think it's the right of opposition to actually demand the same reporting. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u242	I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the water supply improvement project in Kiev (Registration No. 0117). Please support and vote. [[14:11:42]] For 349 Decision taken. The next question is 0118. Heratchenko is 2 minutes. No, colleagues, if you all raise your hands, then we'll discuss it in full. Please, Heratschenko, two minutes, and we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in my previous call, I was the President-in-Charge of the peace settlement at Donbassa, and I know very well the problem of water in liberated by the Ukrainian army from the Russian aggressor, which is a really important topic. And then we talked about water for Mariupol, and the International Committee of the Red Cross was involved. One of their mandatory requirements was transparency, not corruption of schemes, and it was the same localization when Ukraine’s transparency was involved in the project. So once again, I insist, "European solidarity," we're in favour of strengthening our international cooperation, but we're in favour of the French Republic not asking us questions, as well as spending our money, as well as localization without ProZorro's system, involving unknown enterprises, and where Parliament is. And we want to officially turn from the faction of European Solidarity to the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, let's remember that we have a parliamentary-presidential republic, let's answer the questions to the government tomorrow during the "hour of questioning" that ministers are obliged to come to the committees and present bills to answer the questions of opposition so that we don't discuss it in the room right now, namely on the committee. That was our request to our Committee on Foreign Affairs. We didn't mind, for example, these ratifications, but we wanted to hear the finance minister there, just like the Committee on European Integration, wanted to hear the profile vice-premier on European integration. And this is the very right position that will strengthen Parliament, make the government accountable and more transparent, and strengthen, friends, in this room, our communication and our cooperation with those issues that should unite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. But what I can't help but agree that ministers should come to committees and report on all the issues that concern them. And there's no opposition or power here -- it's their job. So I'm talking to my colleagues, and I think they're going to hand it over to their government colleagues. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on support for financing the project for improving the supply of drinking water in the Luhansk region (registration No. 0118). Please support and vote. [[14:15:08]] For 348 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please do not part, a very important announcement. A letter was received from representatives of all the MPs and groups on the urgent consideration of the next issue of the agenda: this is a draft decree on the renaming of the village of the city type of the Novgorod Bahmut district of the Donetsk region in the village of the city type New York. I'm not kidding. All the factions signed. Are you sure there's no discussion? How about a full-time procedure? Okay. Then I put to the vote a motion for adoption as a whole for a decision to rename the village of the city type of the Novgorod Bahmut district of the Donetsk district (registration No. 5081). Please support and vote. [[14:16:36]] For 301 The decision is taken by the constitutional majority. Welcome to the residents. According to factions, show "Serve of the People" – 199, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 3, "European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherland" – 21, "The Party for the Future" – 14, "The Voice" – 16, "The Trust" – 18, "The Non-Flocked – 11. Requesting the apparatus to attach a letter to the material in order to store it for history. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 to direct part of the Grand Building to renovation and restoration works on cultural heritage monuments in municipal property (Registration No. 5551). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:17:50]] For 260 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Krawczuk Eugenia Mikhaylovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, this brief bill on the Great Restoration in the Communities. I mean, the Great Restoration for objects of cultural memory that are in communal property. Because the idea of the Great Restoration is that both national and local monuments, both state-owned and community-based and district council-based, get a second life. State ownership or municipal property is not important here, because it is our historical heritage, as well as the opportunity to give impetus to the development of tourism in Ukraine. These are our potential tourist magnets, which will attract not only Ukrainians but also foreign tourists and bring money to communities. In 2021, about 2 billion dollars were invested in the Grand Restoration program. However, due to legislative restrictions, the program has not yet covered a very large number of unique objects that are at risk of destruction and are now in municipal property. Some areas have submitted lists that consist exclusively of utilities, and so far none of these items have been listed, and we need to fix it. Bill 5551-2 will allow local self-government authorities, through the creation of an appropriate budget programme, to receive subsidies for restoration, conservation, cultural heritage repairs that will be carried out in the framework of the Grand Building program, the Great Restoration. There is no need for additional spending from the State budget of Ukraine because the new budget programme is funded by a reduction in development expenditure under the General Fund of the National Development Fund for the same amount. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u246	The national deputy of Plačkov Tetjana Mikhailovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u247	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's a really important bill, and it's probably very symbolic that we're looking at it today, because today is Ukrainian Architecture Day. And I think we can welcome all the architects, and maybe this bill today will help us all to preserve that architectural heritage that is very large in Ukraine. What's this bill about? It's actually this kind of Big Restoration program, so it doesn't even cover these regions of Ukraine. And what hurts me especially is that it doesn't cover, for example, the Odessa area, because there's a lot of cultural objects that are more than a thousand in the Odessa region, and none of them got into this program. My letter from the minister of culture replied that this had happened because there was no relevant bill. Today we're proposing a bill that increases, more specifically, which directs the funds to protect the cultural heritage that is in communal property. How does this bill differ from other alternatives? It's different because instead of one billion, as all other bills are proposed, we're offering a billion 300 million. Today, communities are looking forward to these costs. In fact, this will be a very powerful support for local communities, for today the actual monuments of municipal property of local importance are on their hold. We clearly understand that communities do not have this kind of funding and will not be able to do it. But the main thing is not even the adoption of this bill, and the main thing is to control the implementation of this bill in order for all regions of Ukraine to get into this programme. Thank you. I'm asking you to support this alternative 5551-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u248	Thank you. The head of the Committee’s subcommittee on the budget of Salamaha Orest Igorovic is invited to attend. Orestes Igorevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u249	Honorable Presidium, Honourable National Deputies and Invitations! The Budget Committee at its meeting on June 17 discussed draft Law No. 5551 and two alternative bills that are united with one goal: to seek financial resources for restoration and conservation work on cultural heritage monuments. The bill proposes to redistribute the expenditure of the special fund under the budget programme of the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy for local budgets. In doing so, Bills 5551 and 5551-1 contain numerical technicalities and arithmetical errors, need substantial work to meet the requirements of standard-setting technology and budgetary methodology. That's what the Chief Science and Technology Administration and Minfin paid attention to. Draft Law 5551-2 and its addenda are set out according to the proper requirements of the drafting of laws amending the State Budget Act, it contains harmonized budgetary indicators and is balanced. In fact, in his preparation, he takes into account the observations of the science-expert administration and Minfin. The relevant comments are detailed in the opinion of the bill committee before the Supreme Council. As a result of the committee’s consideration of the matter, we should adopt such a decision. To recommend Bill 5551 to the Supreme Council and an alternative Bill 5551-1 and 5551-2 to include in the order of the day's fifth session and as a result of their consideration in the first reading of Bill 5551-2 to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law with the necessary editorial and technical regulations. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u250	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, well, the story of this project is that it was signed by all committee members and members of our faction. But then it was rewritten, and only members of the dominant faction in the co-authors remained. And they added "Big Building" in the name. The project itself is beautiful. He really needs a culture facility, they need this subsidy. And obviously we're going to support this project. We had the only discussion: whether to vote in general now, or whether to edit the name. Because it's a normal job, what's the Big Construction doing here? We still vote in general. But please, colleagues, let us not put cheap and unnecessary pear in joint bills that can unite us rather than disunite us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u252	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u253	Mr. Konstankevitch, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u254	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, the Party for the Future Group will of course support a bill that relates to the allocation of funds for repairs, restoration of utilities. I'll explain why. The thing is, the Future Group is all major MPs. And we know best how many of these historical and cultural monuments in Ukraine are in our districts. A colleague spoke of a change of clothes that was not included in the list, and I can say that Volin, none of the memories that were given from our area, is included. At the same time, there are many other areas that have no memory of this list. I think it's unfair that this is discrimination that needs to be corrected. And the Bill 5551 proposes mechanisms. That's why we need to support this bill. But I also think that the proposals made by Mr. Mikola Knieżicki are correct, that the entire committee should be considered, not later on, to make some kind of machination. So the Future Group will support municipal property, but at the same time, we call for order in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u256	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u257	I'd like to give it to Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u258	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u259	Damn it, colleagues. At first, there were the Screws. So it happened that all the objects that were submitted to the competition were from Czartkova. And fortunately, it happened that everyone who won the contest was also in Czartkov. And that's good, because we have deputies from Czartkov who support their hometown. That's good. But then it was mentioned that there was still Ukraine. There are small, small towns like Odessa, maybe Kiev, maybe something else in the center and the east. And so it was the idea to expand the competition and add other cities besides Curtkov. Because this is forever, and we're interested in all of Ukraine. So I'm glad we're now considering this bill, which allows us to add something else to Curtkov, and I'm asking you all to support the Churches and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u260	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u261	Please give Bobrovsky a message.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u262	I will probably give my colleague an invitation to a free course in Ukrainian and Ukrainian geography. For the city was long ago called Chortkiv, not Chortków. Son of a bitch, please, Ternopil district, you're coming. There's a beautiful mayor, I'm sure he'll ask you and teach you both geography and Ukrainian. But in fact, if my colleague was indignant about Czartkov, I was indignant about the national list, where, in principle, most of the positions were won by the Kiev-Pecher laurel. But it is certainly not Volin, not Plainness, not Refreshment, and not many other monuments that would be worthy to be a pearl and adornment of our Ukraine. This bill in the previous version was also supported, and the Voice faction also supported it. And of course, it's one of the mechanisms and steps that have to be passed on, and the cost, for hopefully the most effective use, not the washing, so that the locks finally start to look like locks or any other culturally immovable heritage, our heritage, which is to be adornment and pearl. So, of course, we're going to stand up for it. And Chortkov is a beautiful city in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u263	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. It's a binoculars. Should I put you last? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u264	Unlike the previous bill, where local communities were obliged to finance the newly established cultural centers, this bill is very good. The Fatherland faction will support it. Because the billion that is allocated to the restoration work of castles throughout Ukraine is financed from the state budget and is passed on to local budgets. This is a very correct norm that fits both the Budget Code and the spirit that it is the central budget that can always help local budgets in such cases. The faction is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u265	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, honourable Ukrainians, if we are already advertising our towns here from our districts, I would like to mention Tulchin, the small cultural capital of Ukraine, which, along with all other objects of Winnitzkin, did not go through the President's "Great Restoration" program because they are municipal property. Only those projects that are state property have gone through. Therefore, this must be corrected, both of state importance and of the local meaning of the object. In Winnickin, this is 166 subjects of national importance that need restoration. Recently, my colleagues from the organization's profile committee, the state-owned majority, visited Tulkín and saw that this is a cultural, really small capital, where we conduct OperaFest under the open sky, is a PCD, has already allocated funds for a project-site that will be ready, and it is necessary to save the cultural heritage that needs to be restored accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u267	Thank you. Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, of course, we will support this bill. I still want to remind you that let's note that today we choose between 1 billion and 1 billion 300 million. All the factions were saying how important it is to add money from the state budget today to local budgets for repairs, restoration work, but none of them said that it would be better to add 1 billion 300 million than 1 billion. Okay. But I still want to say we're going to vote. I'm sure everyone here will vote for the Belgrade-Dniestrove Fortress, vote for their own museums of their own town, their own region. Let's support, indeed, and preserve that architectural historical heritage that is in Ukraine today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u269	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 to channel part of the "Great Building" programme's funds to renovation and restoration works on cultural heritage monuments held in municipal property (registration number 5551-2). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:34:43]] For 322 Decision taken. Next question. No, three factions against. One, two, three. All in favor? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the reduction of the half-life of the application of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill of registration number 5551-2. Please support and vote. [[14:35:38]] For 327 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to increase liability for individual criminal and administrative offences in the field of economic activity, service activities, the activities of public service providers and criminal offences against the authority of public authorities (registration No. 3783). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:36:21]] For the 250. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Janchenko Galina Igorovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! This week, many in the Supreme Council spoke about the work of the Parliamentary Commission on the Protection of Investors’ Rights. Bill No. 3783 is one of the six bills drafted by the Parliamentary Special Commission. Every day there are at least two raids in our country. Every month, the Minsk Anti-Rerider Commission examines some 70 business complaints. And if ten more years ago the raid seemed like a strong company fascination, today it's more and more being manipulated by registers, document counterfeiting, and so on. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill. This is the second of a package of anti-rerader initiatives by the Parliamentary Commission on the Protection of Investors' Rights. With this, we propose to significantly increase the penalties for the most common raiding offences, namely: falsification of documents, seals, stamps, illegal possession of business property, and so forth. There are questions in this bill that have, of course, called for discussion. And we've already had a fruitful discussion with the Notary Chamber of Ukraine and the author of the alternative bill by our colleague Igor Fries. I think we're going to compromise and make this bill work, effective and beneficial to the state and improve the investment climate. Finally, I wanted to thank all the colleagues who had joined in writing this bill, especially our colleague, Andrew Nikolayenko, and the community organization Business Watch. Once again, the legislation we are proposing is hard, but today it is necessary. Therefore, it is a great request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u271	National Deputy of Ukraine Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u272	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. You know, I actually passed an alternative bill because I think that the level of responsibility should be equal to the level of sanctions. And those sanctions that are imposed by criminal law are, in my opinion, quite severe, especially when it comes to undetermined standards, especially those that impose additional responsibilities, which are absolutely not subject to the provision of appropriate services. In view of this, appropriate changes were made, which were approved by the NEUW. And we and the authors of the basic bill have come up with conceptual agreement that these changes that apply to the relevant articles: the 209th Criminal Code, 358th, 356th, we will be working together and the second reading submitted to the Supreme Council with their unanimous support of the authors of the two bills. So, in principle, I absolutely agree with the adoption of the basic bill and I am confident that before the second reading of the bill, which will be worked out and which we have reached conceptual agreement with Clay Yanchenko, and with the other authors of the basic bill, will be supported in this room. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u273	Bakumov’s head of the committee of law enforcement is also invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u274	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 4 November 2020, the Committee on Law Protection considered the basic bill 3783 and the alternative 2783, marked 1. The main purpose of the bill is to introduce additional safeguards for the protection of Ukrainian property rights by amending the Criminal Code and the Code on Administrative Violations at the disposal of sanctions that contain outdated and ineffective regulation, discrepancies in the understandable apparatus. At the same time, most of the provisions, both the basic and the alternative bills, are almost identical. We had a discussion earlier with two drafters of the bill, both basic and alternative. They agreed on certain points of discussion. And so they can be completely processed and removed by the second reading. However, the Supreme Council Committee on Law Protection, by its decision of 4 November 2020, recommends that the Supreme Council approve the basic bill 3783 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u275	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u276	Please pass the word to Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u277	Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this bill has been drafted by the Interim Special Commission for the Protection of Investors' Rights. First of all, there's increased responsibility for raiding. We know that we have very little responsibility for raiding, so there are a lot of raids in our country. And most of all, we've all heard of so-called black registrars, who are simply baselessly or on the basis of forged documents, rewriting property. On many occasions, situations have been heard that a person comes to his senses and that the real estate is already on another person. Above all, according to the current legislation, registrants are responsible only for actions they have taken in their own interests. Accordingly, this law changes the basis for the responsibility of the registrars because of the interests that the registrar has done in the interests of third parties, which is perfectly logical, and can bring the registrars to account. And we also have a recent reform that has translated the registrations into the private sector, and registries often have private notaries. Here too, at the request of the Notary Chamber of Ukraine, the responsibility of private notaries has been increased for failing to register, which has also led to certain raids involving registration activities. So the faction "European Solidarity" will support this bill and vote in the first reading in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u279	Janchenko Galina Igorovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u280	Please pass the word to Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u281	The Venislav Feder. No, Francis Igor. Dear colleagues, we are not alone here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u282	Thank you. Guys, I don't want us discussing black registrations, black notaries in this room. I'm sure there's a lot of completely honest, normal, positive and adequate people in both professions. And to talk about increasing responsibility, all the way to criminal responsibility for appropriate actions, I made it clear in my speech that a person should be held accountable and that sanctions should only be applied to him when his guilt is proven. And so to say that notaries don't pass on registers and it's kind of a matter of raiding, well, I'm sorry, it's kind of the beginning of the 20th century. To date, everything has been introduced into electronic government registers and every action is carried out accordingly, directly in the course of a notary action or other act. And the registration by the State Registerer is also charged with administrative litigation. So let's be more or less sensitive to what colleagues say, with understanding and second reading, to make appropriate changes to this law, which will clearly regulate the sanctions and responsibility of the relevant persons who register the transfer of ownership rights. And this is the administrative responsibility set out in very, very large fines applied today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u283	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u284	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to give the floor to the honorary colleague of the People's Parliament, Mr. Scorch Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u285	Screaming by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u286	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The expert group of the Opposition Platform for Life has reviewed the bill and concluded that it has balanced issues of criminal responsibility for relevant offences, and this could lead to a balanced criminal code as such. That is why we do not plan to support these bills. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to turn to the representatives of the majority here and remind them of the responsibility for my own words, for my own promises. Regarding the battle against raiding, some success of this raiding commission, Ukraine has demonstrated a record-breaking outflow of millions of dollars in foreign investment flows from Ukraine in the past year. This is about the Commission's success in involving foreign investment in Ukraine. It should be noted that the main factor in involving foreign investment in the country, in addition to political stability, the absence of military conflicts, is the adequate work of government. For example, you make such promises, such as your Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Lechchenko, spoke of some 2 million acres [2 million ha] of land stolen from the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian State. I did not hear or see one of these hectares return to the Ukrainian State and be punished for it. You have to understand what the executive authorities have to do, they have to implement state policy in all areas accordingly. And that's your responsibility, because you're in charge of government as executive authority, you're assigning them. These steps that you're trying to take, they're not going to lead to anything. And you have to force the authorities to start working and start taking responsibility for their own actions, and start to understand the responsibility for the country's fate and success or failure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u287	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u288	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague of Nikolainka Andria's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u289	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u290	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. As co-author of this bill, I would like to ask my colleagues to support it not only because it has already spoken from this rostrum but also because the commission that has just been mentioned is not involved. By investing in Ukraine, we all have to work together, forming a single legislative field for all. The Commission protects the rights of investors who have suffered from a variety of actions. Regrettably, these are the actions of various national law enforcement or control authorities, sometimes judicial authorities. We defend and deal with these complaints. As far as I'm concerned. Often, in considering these complaints, we see that the transfer of property rights takes place through the illegal operation of registrars or other officials, or private persons who are granted the power of the State to act in the context of liberalisation. And so impunity, and the fact that every one of these raids, and they've had tens of thousands of them in our country over the past five years, are real machinators. And they're using some "pounds," sorry, in words that then pay minimum fines, it's got to be stopped. And investments will also go where private property rights are clear, clear, and secure. That's why it's this bill that we're hurting those who agree to be the "pound" that will sign for some rich guy who likes someone else's asset. The Supreme Council has to show, create conditions, show a pattern. And it is precisely this bill that deserves support. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u291	All of them? Aresonkov. Fuck. Then we go to the vote. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP recommends bill 3783 accept as a basis, 3783-1 reject. We believe that there is no doubt a need to update the criminal and penal code of the Ukrainian Penal Code, which has to do with service and economic activity. This is an extremely topical topic today, including the fight against raids. Thus, the increase in penalties in the form of fines, restrictions on willfulness and deprivation of liberty, such as articles related to counterfeiting of documents, seals, stamps, forms, and so forth, is certainly vital in this bill. Abuse of authority by those who provide public services is also dealt with actively enough. Therefore, we recommend voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u293	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, the drafters of the bill, well, indeed, colleagues, do not work in the law enforcement system, can come up with and adopt laws, and be happy that they will help. No, nothing helps the dead anymore. Why doesn't it help? Note that the results are always there. But the whole question is in mind. Until the registration of the "black", the "green" registrar will not be required in the form of an obligation (obligation, notice, not the right, but the obligation) to give an assessment to those papers, those materials that have come to it and carry out the registration, well, nothing will happen. At least we can shoot him in the court of the Supreme Council, there will be no consequences. You have to understand, you have to make a commitment to another legislative act, and believe me, 90 percent of black registrars will disappear on the legal level, not on the lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u295	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to increase liability for individual criminal and administrative offences in the field of economic activity, service activities, the activities of public service providers and criminal offences against the authority of public authorities (registration No. 3783). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:53:09]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Marikowski of the procedure. Isn't it? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u296	Dear colleagues, Bill 2765 is now in the order of day 129. But there's a request from the committee to send him back to read again, important, for environmental protection. Let's go to second reading without discussion, if that's a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-01-m0.u297	Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the proposal to return to the second reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection and environment of water resources (registration No. 2765). Please support and vote. [[14:54:12]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have less than five minutes left. Just so New York doesn't get bored, let's do a couple more names. What's "no"? I'll set it up now, and then you'll be on your own. "No." 2715 bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? Do you all need to talk about it? I can't hear you. Take off your mask. [[B in m in s a l in]] Would you like to continue for 15 minutes? Look, Vjetrović Vladimir Mikhajlovich, he is keen to discuss all the decrees on renaming. All of them. Even if it were possible, New York would have returned. Well, then we'll vote for the recast. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they don't want to work, so good. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
