ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for a Act on the Special Conditions for the Effectiveness of Certain Contracts, the Publication of These Contracts and the Register of Contracts (Law on the Register of Contracts) /Print of the House 42/11/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 42/12. I welcome Senator Jaromír Strnad among us. I ask that Mr Jan Farský take the position at the rapporteur's table as well. I ask that the rapporteurs of the Guarantee Committee Jan Chvojka, the Constitutional Committee, the next rapporteur is Jan Birke, Mr Martin Novotný, and Mr Jiří Petrů, on behalf of the Economic Committee, on behalf of the Supervisory Committee, on behalf of Mr Martin Novotný and on behalf of the Public Administration Committee. I now ask the applicant's representative to comment on the resolution of the Senate and on the amendments. Mr Farský has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the Treaty Register Act is on the agenda, and probably today for the last time. However, I will not use the situation for a long speech, but I will try to be as brief as possible. We have a vote in front of us that basically has three options for it to end. One thing is that in the first vote, we approve the Senate proposal, or in the second vote, we overrule the Senate and insist on the House text, or that we do not approve anything at all. In short, I will try to summarize what is, from my point of view, the content of the Senate proposal with amendments. I won't be introducing the House version for long, you know. And at the same time, I'm going to evaluate those of these versions that are the most appropriate, or I'm going to evaluate them. for which I would not recommend voting at all. The first and good news for the Chamber of Deputies, I would say, is that the Senate in the press, which went to the Senate in a text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, did not find legislative errors that would lead to the law being in any way ineffective. There is only one correction, when it releases the words of an invoice and an order which remain in one of the amendments that has been approved here, but that, if they remain in the law, does not cause any problem, does not cause any contradiction. These are words that are simply extra. As far as the proposal which has been discussed and approved by the Senate is concerned, I have one fundamental reservation. In short, it's not a contract register anymore. Because the fundamental and from the beginning the promoted property of the Act on the Register of Contracts, the shem that gives him functionality and self-enforceability, the nullity of the unpublished contracts, was removed from it by the senát. He removed it and replaced it with the supervision of the Office for the Protection of Competition, a measure that may fit into the functional idea of our rule of law, the idea that the authorities and control and supervision will solve everything for us, but it certainly does not fit into the functioning of the register of contracts. In the event that the Office of Competition should supervise hundreds of thousands and even millions of contracts, even those - and especially those that do not appear in the register at all - I dare say that it would never be able to carry out this activity. This means that by exempting the basic terms of the non-published contract does not apply, it is no longer a register of contracts. The second problematic area, which is there, concerns the definition that only contracts in which public funds are dealt with are published. But the definition is so vague that it would cause enough confusion in which contracts are still and contain public funds and which no longer contain them. [[15.00 hours]] For this reason, I would rank three voting options. The worst option is if he passes the Senate proposal. It's better if nothing passes than a Senate proposal. And the only way from my point of view is if the House maintains its opinion, its proposal, and approves the House's version. That's all for starters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Mr Farský. I am now asking whether the will of the rapporteurs, Mr Chvojka's colleague, is yes, for a guarantee committee of constitutional law, to comment on the Senate's amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We have here again a big day for this honored House, we have again on the table in quotation marks voting on the register of contracts. I've been looking forward to this day because I've been in charge of this law for almost a year and three quarters, maybe longer. I have to admit, I'd like to have him, I'm gonna say it a little pejorative, but that's right, out of the way. I, in my quotes, have put forward a lot of laws from the Civil Code to the Enforcement Code, to the Labour Code and the Service Law, and I have the honour, or maybe the bad luck, that I am the rapporteur for this and for somebody fundamental standards, standards that have some eleven or twelve paragraphs, and basically does not touch a person's life even from a tenth in the way that the previous laws affect it. That means the Civil Code, the Law on Enforcements, etc. they touch the life of a normal person a thousand times higher than some register of contracts. However, not one of the previous laws I mentioned was associated with such media massage and expectations as this law. I would like to say that I am not a person for whom a media massage would be applied in a fundamental way. In me, it's always got these different instincts. It means that when someone tells me to do something, and tells me that often, over and over again, I don't usually feel like doing it. I know there are colleagues and friends here from State Reconstruction. I'd like to say hello. Hello, they're my favorites and I'm theirs. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] Thank you. I would like to say that today I will vote on my conscience and conscience, not on my e-mails. I would like to point out briefly that the e-mails that have been sent to me, and not only to me, but the last few days of the House, they don't make much sense. So I would like to ask - you are not fellow Members, but the public and there may not have to go through Mr President - to improve your reputation in some way by making sense of your emails. It's right here in front of me. I got about five e-mails describing it: good day, to the register of contracts, it's great, support etc. And I think the contract register is good, because fill it in -- fill it in. I was like, "Oh, for God's sake, what am I supposed to do?" Why should I add anything? I know what a contract register is. I understand that this is some kind of uniform form that the fans of the contract register should have sent to us legislators, but they just weren't able to fill in why the register is so good. That's one complaint. And the last thing that caught my eye. If there's anybody here from the Františkův Lázně. That's very interesting, too. Some four people sent me an e-mail, which was essentially signed, paraphrasing: Pepa Novák - Jihlava, Honza Novák - Telč, Břeťa Birke - from somewhere else. And it always said, "Support the contract register, it's good." It's the best law. After 26 years, democracy will finally be here. Until then, it wasn't. And then it said, whether it was Pepa z Jihlava or Franta z Náchod: I myself prevented a billion-dollar fraud in Františkovy Lázně years ago. So I was thinking, I don't believe it. Four people, each from the other end of the republic, prevented every other fraud in Františkovy Lázně. [[Cheer from the left.]] That didn't make sense. Is there anyone here from the Francis Spa who can shed some light on this? It was just a joke plug. What was the goal of what I said here. The law should be passed in some form today. I was the rapporteur of the law, I think I've done a lot of work on it, and it's time for it to come into force and then in effect, and for all media play and noise to be resolved somehow. However, I repeat, let him pass. And I've been saying that for a year and a quarter. The law is certainly not the most beautiful, as colleagues think. It's just one of the laws, and it's not gonna make this world any better. Let us not expect that this law will change anything fundamental. I had a bit of a problem with the media massage around it, and I think it caused some dislike for some of my fellow Members, even though they originally had sympathy for the law and perhaps for the reconstruction of the state. Maybe sometimes it's less than that and take care of it in other laws. I repeat, I will vote on my conscience and conscience, not on how an unknown actor or an unknown singer will write to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee of the Constitutional Law Jan Chvojka. Before the next rapporteur comes forward, Mr Jan Farský, with a factual remark. No, it's okay. In that case, the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Jan Birke. He's not interested. Mr Martin Novotný for the inspection committee. He's not interested. Mr Jiří Petrů, rapporteur for the Public Administration Committee. He's interested. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. I shall merely recall the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development adopted by Resolution No. 45 of the 10th June of this year and recommended then to the Chamber of Deputies to reject the House's press 42. I was performing at the time, and I gave very detailed reasons for this rejection. I'm just asking you to remind me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Jiří Petr. I'm opening the debate. First up, Senator Jaromír Strnad. Mr Jan Klán will also be prepared. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear Members, honourable Members, I wish you all a good afternoon. As rapporteur for this law in the Senate, I am authorized to introduce you to the process of discussing the bill in our Chamber. Although a substantial part of the senators felt that it would be best to reject this proposal, the Senate finally approved a resolution to return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the amendments, which would at least partially mention some of the negative effects of this law, although I am aware that this proposal is in a way irreparable. Senate amendments extend the list of entities to which the obligation to publish contracts should not apply. It is the national company Budvar, the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund, and the obligation to publish contracts would not apply to contracts in respect of which public resources were not used, thus equalizing the position of, in particular, those legal persons who manage exclusively their own funds arising from commercial activities. Furthermore, we propose the original penalty, the annulment of a contract which has not been published within three months of its conclusion, to replace financial penalties for legal persons who do not submit a contract for publication within a specified period. Although this is not a custom, I also consider it necessary to draw attention to the discussion of the draft law on the register of contracts in Senate committees and the Senate plenary. The Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport, the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment and the Constitutional Committee, to which the draft law was directed, have taken it very honestly, carefully, and discussions on the proposal have been held in committees for several hours. Here it is particularly appropriate to draw attention to the special study trip abroad, which was attended by members of the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment to the Slovak Republic and to Austria. [[15.10 hours]] The debate at the Senate plenary was also extremely detailed, which indicates its length, which exceeded four hours. The debate was very factual, but also very critical, although the positive views of some fellow senators on the issue of publication of contracts were expressed. Knowledge from the study trip of senators to Slovakia and Austria was very important for the discussion of the bill in the Senate. Among other things, it has shown that in Slovakia, for five years the register of contracts has not been subject to a non-publication penalty, no one is following and assessing whether or not the compulsory entities publish the contracts. However, some organizations process data obtained from the register of contracts on a commercial basis. It is also worth mentioning that a skeptical view of representatives of Slovak municipalities on the contribution of the register of contracts and the opinion of Austrian representatives of public administration, mayors and civil servants on the compulsory publication of contracts in the register was expressed by one of the senators by a single word - meaningless. A separate chapter was the debate on the proposed proposals (?) which form, as one of the fellow senators practically called it, the heart of the Act on the Register of Contracts. That is the special penalty for the invalidity of a non-public contract to ensure the self-enforceability of the law. The discussion has made it clear that most senators do not share this novelty in the rule of law and are more inclined towards traditional and proven sanctions mechanisms. In the plenary debate, a number of reservations, objections and warnings were also raised about the impact of the Act on the Register of Contracts, in particular on trading companies with the participation of the State, the regions, the municipalities. Finally, this debate has resulted not only in the amendments adopted, but also in the accompanying resolution adopted, which I would like to reinterpret: There are still a number of doubts about the register of contracts, and the government should thoroughly assess the potential negative effects of the register of contracts before the law becomes effective. The last topic that fellow senators often mentioned in their speeches was permanent and very sensitive pressure on the legislators by Reconstruction of the State. I do not wish to open this subject unnecessarily, but I think that the consensus in the opinions of my fellow senators on this initiative can simply be summed up in such a way that its pressure in both chambers of Parliament is completely beyond the threshold. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to approve this bill as amended by the amendments adopted by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u9	I thank Senator Jaromír Strnad and now, in the debate, Mr Jan Klán. Mr Stanislav Grospič will be ready. I've got four logged in so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, allow me once again to comment on a certain Evergreen in this Chamber of Deputies, and that is the register of treaties. Everyone here thinks it's the greatest law, does some darkening as I could read. I also got a lot of e-mails from my colleague Chvojka. I don't respond to them. I normally say I've only ever done a delete because I don't read this. If the email still contains the same things as Honza Chvojka said here, that just some Franta from Dolní Polní was witnessing four times somewhere that he saved corruption and other things - it's nonsense. In my speech, I will explain to you that the register of contracts is not an anti-corruption law. You'll wonder which anti-corruption laws I mean and which ones they really are. To begin with, I will mention that the register of contracts - whether it listens especially to galleries where the supporters of the House version are, and the supporters of the Reconstruction of the State anywhere else, I think that even here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies - the register of contracts is introduced only in Slovakia. Nowhere else! That's the first thing. No other country in the European Union has it. Now we get to whether to approve the Senate version or the House version or no version. You'll see if I can convince you or not what's best. The view that the law on the register of contracts approved in the House version is the first anti-corruption law does not correspond, ladies and gentlemen, to reality at all. The Act on the Register of Contracts is merely aimed at the formal, i.e. the procedural aspect of the problems in question, which are the content of other laws of the areas concerned. For example, we can have a law on public procurement in this case. We can have the object of state property, which is the law on state property. The subject of self-governing things is a law on regions and municipalities, and many others. In this sense, the Act on the Register of Contracts is merely an additional one; I note that the Act on Laws regulates the problem in question again. [[with emphasis]] Let's think about that, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, if there is a bad law on the area in question, for example, I am already here many times in plenary mentioned in the Public Procurement Act, the law on the register of contracts will not solve anything in itself. There's nothing that's gonna save the public from being able to look into a bad contract. We need, in particular, the so-called ex ante - i.e. in advance - to be sure that the management of public resources is consistent with the principle of economy, efficiency and efficiency in particular. See Article 6 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The aim of internal management and control is to protect public funds and ensure that they are handled effectively, economically and efficiently. In Article 6 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Article 5 (5) shall be read: The administrator of the public budget, the public body and the recipient of public financial support shall be obliged to prevent acts contrary to the objective of internal management and control referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1. In Article 32 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21 to supplement this Regulation by means of implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. (a) the needs to be met and the data demonstrating it, (b) possible variants of the satisfaction of the identified needs in view of the expected benefits and objectives of internal management and control pursuant to Section 6. Let us note, ladies and gentlemen - I would like a little attention, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Senator - that the preliminary assessment, or ex ante, or preliminary control, or sometimes called an ex ante audit, examines the link to the need. The need in this case is to satisfy the social demand to be met in the public interest. It is therefore examined in the criterion of effectiveness. That's not what the contract register law does. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we need to realize. There is a considerable contradiction. The register of contracts merely gives formal information, but it does not say anything about economic rationality. Furthermore, it does not provide information on the purpose but only formal information on the entities of the contract. And that's it. However, we need an ex ante, forward, to know that the considered allocation of resources is socially necessary, i.e. that it corresponds to the need. It follows that the Act on the Register of Contracts is only a means of promoting the transparency of the use of public resources. It also follows from the above that the real - I note again: the real - anti-corruption law is the law on internal control of public finances, which we are still not finished. He's furt been talked about, discussed. And that's the alpha and the omega. Not a register of contracts, but a law on internal control of public finances. The second anti-corruption law, which plays a very important role, and I have already mentioned it many times, is the Public Procurement Act. If he is also not well and fully operational, then the register of contracts is useless to us. He's really useless to us. If we look at the ex post contract register, that's after the contract, there's nothing anyone can do about it. We really need to be sure at the beginning. The Public Procurement Act is, of course, in the House at first reading, we will discuss it. I don't know when. I was recently told that it was supposed to take effect sometime in the middle of next year, but I can already see how we can approve it and discuss it by the middle of next year! [[15.20 hours]] And the claim that first we need a contract register and then a public procurement law? Think about what I'm saying and whether it's true or not. I say that the truth is that we must first have a solid foundation, which is given by two anti-corruption laws - the Public Procurement Act and the Internal Public Finance Control Act. As the senator has already said, the Senate version is slightly better, in my opinion. Now I'm going to explain why this version is a little bit better for me. First of all, he's removing Budvar's national business. I can't help it, but I'm here in the second and third reading saying that the House's version threatens state enterprises in a competitive environment. Oh, look at that! Anheuser-Busch conducted a merger with InBev, who owns Pilsner Urquell, settled in Pilsen and is in the sight of Budvar. Now I don't know what's gonna happen next. He's really waiting like a dog walking around to bring Budvar together for us. Now look at the merger. Pilsner Urquell or InBev and Anheuser-Busch - over two trillion crowns! That's a huge amount of money, and the state hasn't seen a penny of it! If the transaction takes place in the territory of the national state, even if it's foreign companies, then the capital in some part should remain national capital. But I'm not going to let Budvar be liquidated just because Anheuser-Busch has settled in our home, thanks to the contract register. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] That is why I personally prefer the Senate version, which exempts the national business Budvar. Furthermore, of course, apart from the national company Budvar and other state enterprises, about five or six, I will not tell you exactly now, but for example ČEPRO. And I have to ask the petitioner that if he lets state companies be liquidated by a register of contracts, where the state will take money into the state budget... Mr President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u11	I know that some of you are no longer interested in this, given that we have been discussing this for a long time, but I would still like you to bring the discussions that are not related to the register of contracts into the foyer and leave the various Members and Members to comment on the Senate proposal. Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the peace of mind. So I can finish the idea. So where will it take money if it doesn't own any national, state or parastate companies? I'll show you around now. a little thought experiment that I also conducted with many experts. Let's look at the problem of Czech Railways and Competition - Student Agency, which is also a very well-known case and the example that has been solved, I think Senator Radko Martínek mentioned this case on the Senate floor, so let's take a look at it. The Czech Railways contracts will be published in the register of contracts, the Student Agency will look into this and put such conditions on the railway, which will be below the price that the Czech Railways need to be destroyed. And I say here: I will not let the Czech Railways be destroyed. Of course, it can be a claim that a state monopolist is bad and a private monopolyist is also bad, but I say that a state monopolyist is better at one thing. The state monopoly can be regulated in the public interest, not private. It's all about profit, nothing else. So I say for myself: I will support the Senate version because Budvar and other state firms are exempting the nation's business. Not all of them, but at least I'll save some. And the claim that, in some way, we will then correct the House's version? Remember that publication of contracts in the register according to the House version will be next year in the middle of the year. I can see now that we're going to be discussing some partial amendment to the contract register, which will be exempting the Budvar National Company and others. I got some things from lobbyists that we all agree on. If we could agree on that, ladies and gentlemen, it's no longer there! That's one thing. The fact that CEZ had made an exception in some way, it was said that CEZ had chosen an exemption as a listed company in the government, so why didn't you remove the other state-owned companies there? Didn't anybody think of that? Or did somebody just think it would go away or nobody would notice? Well, I couldn't be here in that case - I noticed. And another claim, for example, that the registry remembers it and that Budvar can black out everything and stuff like that, so I ask, if he can black out everything he wants, why is he in that register? Let's put that down, too! And that there might be something vague in some contracts and this kind of thing in these national and state-owned businesses, but they don't have to be in that register from the start! Let us also ask ourselves this question. But now we're going to get to the Senate version so that I don't just keep burning here, how the media will definitely write about me, that I've been sluggish, warned about supranational capital, but I have to warn against it, because I defend the interests of the Czech Republic and not supranational capital like some others. Come in. I still haven't heard back from anyone who's gonna black out unpublished information from the contracts. Who's it gonna be? At the ministries, will it be a minister or a clerk? The mayor himself or the secretary? Who's gonna black out? On this occasion, I would like to ask how the mayors are prepared, because the law on the register of contracts will apply to municipalities over 5,000. population. And the argument - for example, the statement by the State that the Senate introduced a control of the Office for the Protection of Competition constitutes an expanse of the burden on municipalities and authorities of a new type of control, sanctions of invalidity is a burden only for those who do not publish the contract, in this case I agree with this claim - I do not agree. Watch it, I don't agree! This is an obligation laid down by law which the administrator of the public budget is to implement in the framework of the proposed Act on the Management of Public Finance, where Section 6 (1) of the Act provides that: 5 writes: The administrator of the public budget, the public body and the recipient of public financial support shall be obliged to prevent acts contrary to the objective of internal management and control referred to in paragraph 1. Another criticism of the Reconstruction of the State and other lobbyists of supranational capital, which is taken into account, is that the Senate's proposed register without penalty of invalidity for non-publication of the contract will not work because it lacks effective and yet simply enforceable sanctions. Without it, the law cannot ensure the publication of all public administration contracts. In this case, I would also be a sanction, but sanctions alone are only half-hearted solutions to this problem. It solves the problem formally. Strictly speaking, if the Public Finance Management Act were to work, there might not even be a contract register law, because it itself imposes verification of the effectiveness of the Public Finance Management Act. Another unsolved area is how it will be with contracts that will be concluded in foreign currency. The draft contract register states that the entities must publish contracts, invoices and orders over 50 thousand. But what if it's closed in foreign currency? That's what I'd like to know. Will it be counted to the crowns? In what course will this be converted into crowns? At the rate at the date of conclusion of the contract, or at the date of publication of the contract, or after a period of three months? Another problem. What's the problem called? Breaking contracts? When I have a contract, for example. to 100 thousand, so I can divide it into a few smaller contracts, like 5 times 20 thousand, 2 times 50 thousand, and that can happen with other amounts. I'm just giving you an example. How will this be secured? Isn't this going to happen? And the issue of living contracts, which I have also talked about many times, i.e. those contracts that will be concluded e.g. prior to the entry into force of the Act on the Register of Contracts. Won't there be a type of retroactivity that is forbidden in our country? Of course, the counterargument that the ministries are already somehow publishing their contracts that were once concluded, and nothing happened - yes, I understand the argument. However, if I involve all the actors involved to which the contract register law is to apply, I am concerned that the registry administrator, which will be the Ministry of the Interior, will be subject to legal action. It can happen because there are so many subjects that we can't catch it in any way much. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are back to the problem at hand, whether we really need a register of contracts or not. I am clearly saying that we first need two important laws, namely the Public Procurement Act, which will be properly operational, and the Public Finance Control Act. If we're both fully operational, we don't need a contract register. Let's think about that. [[15.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe I have shed some light on why I will vote in favour of the Senate version of the contract register. I'm not saying I've been perfectly enlightened here, but my arguments are clear. But it would be best, first of all, if we introduced really real anti-corruption laws that I mentioned above and then dealt with the register of contracts. Otherwise, we're building a house from the roof and it can't end well, because even the road to hell is often paved with good intentions. As the Senate has asked the Government to draw up an impact study on the register of contracts, I suggest that we interrupt this point until this study is presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll take note of your proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue the debate. I note Mr Ivan Adamec's factual remark. [[Screams from the left side of the hall: This was a procedural proposal.]] Is that a procedural proposal? You want to vote now? Okay. In that case, I'm sorry. This is a procedural proposal. So I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and ask them to come to the vote. I'm still registering the check-out request. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. [[He's waiting for the MPs coming from the lobby for a while.]] I think we're all here. I shall merely repeat the procedural proposal on which we shall vote. There is a motion to interrupt this point until the government delivers an impact study to this law, as the Senate wanted it in the Senate's proposal, as the Senate delivered it to us. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of proposing this impact study and interrupting this point. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 18; 157 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 43, against 81. This proposal was rejected. In that case, we will continue to discuss the material. I'm registering a few factual remarks. The first is Mr Adamec, after which is Mr Jakubčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to speak to the proposed draft here. I think there's been a lot of suggestions here, a lot of discussion here. My personal insight is familiar to my colleagues. However, I would like to pause here for one of the information I have heard from a fellow senator here, and I don't know if I overheard. I would like it to be repeated to me, at least for me, that the register of contracts has been in Slovakia for five years and, de facto, on the basis of this register, there has never been a case of injustice in relation to corruption. I would like to confirm whether this is true, because I know a similar law that we all use, and we have to apply it personally, and that is the law on the property returns of Members and Senators, and I remember all this time, including those modifications that have taken place, there has never been any corruption of any of us on the basis of this law, except, of course, we have the costs of filling in some papers and putting it in place in due time. I don't think it's that obvious here. Actually, this is where the cost is going to be. Each contract has to be processed and hanged on that register. So I would like this to be said here, because of course it confirms the idea that we've been doing nothing here for two years but talking about something that looks completely different in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a proper application, Mr Grospič. Mr. Černoch will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, perhaps after the vote proposed by my colleague, the interruption of this House press and the proposal until the study requested by the Senate is completed will make it easier. I can't resist the impression, and I've been following this press's annabasis very carefully from the very beginning, and I even remember his annabasis at the end of the last parliamentary term, that it's one of those classic cases where someone third, preferably some citizens' initiative, in this case, maybe reconstruction of the state, addresses someone or creates a topic, it's very medially nourished and creates a feeling in the general public that if they're not given it, then life will stop. They stop driving trains, Grandma's home gets bitter in a mug, she gets sour cheese in a bun, and basically something terrible happens, because it's the topic that's so crucial that it's necessary and it solves everything, including the fight against corruption. The fight against corruption is not about establishing or implementing a register of contracts. I am led by pragmatic reflection and consultation with a large number of mayors who express concern about how much it will actually bring something positive into the life of municipalities and the life of local authorities, whether the lower ones or the higher ones, and how much it will actually contribute to the transparency of the very management of local authorities and, for example, businesses, organisations in which these local authorities have a share, and I will now ignore, for example, state enterprises like Budvar was mentioned here. I think, in this context, that we simply have a register of contracts, given that we have relatively comprehensive obligations directly in the municipal law, in the Regional Law, we have them in a number of other laws, including relatively complex, even if the cumbersome law on public procurement makes this situation difficult and obscure. This leads me to believe that, at the current stage, in which both the House version, which I did not support, and the variant with which the Senate came, although, of course, it is more friendly to some extent, because it does not place the point of absolute nullity of the contract, but therefore introduces the moment of the fine, however, the contract as such could essentially be relevant and still valid, so it does not solve any substance at all, but, on its own, it can create a rather complex environment that can paradoxically help to corrupt and, of course, that large companies, large capital groups will evaluate this register of contracts, no one will follow it factually except for individual interests, and will, of course, be vaguely ascertaining what the demands of municipalities are, and will be pragmatic in relation to the municipalities simply trading. In this context, I think that the register of contracts will be a toothless measure, albeit very attractive, even if it is focused on huge media attention, but it is one of the cases where it is a law that is necessary and in terms of combating corruption, as well as in terms of the needs of the Czech rule of law and the real needs of citizens and municipalities, it is marginal. I'm simply not going to support this bill for myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Černoch is now duly enrolled in the debate and Mr Blažek will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. I would very much like to present the opinion of the Dawn Club - the National Coalition on the Act on the Register of Contracts. All sides, all sides, and I've listened very carefully to what the previous speakers have said, all sides always promise how they will spin corruption. How they will put forward proposals to combat corruption. And at a time when the law, which was being worked on for a very long time, was in the constitutional law committee several times, it was constantly postponed the negotiation of this law, so at the time when the law was passed by the House, so to withdraw from this law. Because what comes from the Senate, don't be mad at me, but it's a piece of paper. At that point, it makes no sense to adopt such a law at all, because when an unpublished contract is in effect, a fine is paid for it, so anyone who wants to make a culinary dress is very easy to calculate whether it pays or doesn't pay. I know it's definitely not the ideal law, but which law is the ideal? You can keep working on it, things can be solved, but they should be dealt with by a novel, not by turning it into a piece of paper. I certainly don't support that. By your help, my colleague Klán. Any multinational group, on the contrary, I think that a state enterprise is always very important. Unfortunately, something should also be said here about the fact that some, for example, Czech Railways, although they are in red numbers, or although they are in minus, there are very high rewards paid there. I think that if the very high fees weren't paid, maybe the business could be a little better off. There is an opportunity to support the anti-corruption law regardless of the pressure of any lobbyist. I can tell you that no one is going to tell me or anyone at Dawn how to vote or what proposal we're going to lean towards. For us, combating corruption is a very important topic, and we will therefore support the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read one note. 24 days. 11th from 16.15 to 18.00 for reasons of work, Mrs Zuzana Šánová apologises. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Klán and Mr Stupčuk have the first. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to respond by your means to a fellow Černoch man. Mr. Colleague, the contract register is not an anti-corruption law, that's the first thing. He's just a partial means of controlling public finances. He's not anti-corruption. Anti-corruption is two, I've already told them here. The law on public procurement is the first, and the second is the law on internal control of public finances. There's no other way. This is just a partial. Second thing, you said something about the Czech Railways. Yes, I understand that sometimes and somewhere there are outrageous rewards, but that is to be dealt with by the Supervisory Board Act and not by the register of contracts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr Stupchuk, Mr Černoch, followed by Mr Stupčuk, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues. I consider your colleague Černoch, whom I respect, to be reasonable, but I simply cannot agree with what he said. That really got me out of my chair. In order to pass stupid laws here and know the moment we approve of them, we're going to have to fix them with a novel, so we're really making ourselves look like we're wrong people! [[He's talking more and more strongly.]] We can't practice with the company like this! Either we know what we approve, then we approve, or we don't know! And I'm telling you, we don't know at the moment what the consequences of this law will be! We have a bad law here, and we have an even worse law here that came from the Senate. At the same time, I use this factual remark to ask which genius set up the senseless competence of the Office for the Protection of Competition. That is what I would really like to know is what is the factual link of this office with carrying out state supervision on the section of whether or not the contracts will be registered, and subsequently led administrative proceedings, including the finding procedure and the proof procedure, in a situation where the office is already overwhelmed, there are contracts for about 3 billion suspended, and we will still be loading it like this!? Well, then explain to me how you figured it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Černoch, now with a factual remark, will be prepared with a factual remark by Mr Fiedler. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. To your previous speakers through you. I appreciate you, gentlemen, too, but why didn't these debates take place at the time the proposal was being discussed? Why was it agreed by the House, and today it returns in a completely different form? So why didn't it work when there was a chance in the committees? And now we're dealing with it? Within Mr Klán, Mr President. Yeah, but you guys are here for the next term, so why are we talking about this proposal now, I think, about the executives' rewards, so why haven't they found it yet? Why didn't you design it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, too. Now, with Mr Fiedler's factual remark, Mr Stupčuk will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u26	Good afternoon, thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleague Stupčuk forced me to get a little more attention, but basically gros took what I wanted to say from my colleague Marek Černoch's mouth. You've been here for some time in this Chamber of Deputies, some parliamentary term. And the result of what you've been doing here is that the situation is what it is that this corruption is blooming for us, gentlemen. That's reality. It has been said here by the senator that this law has been in operation in Slovakia for five years, that it has not revealed any corruption. I'm in charge of laws other than that. It's more like the floor of a colleague of Marek Černoch. But isn't it because the contracts are visible there? And has there been any major problem with any business in Slovakia yet? If so, keep me informed, I'll be happy to hear it and change my mind. But otherwise I agree with what our chairman of club Marek Černoch said, that rather than nothing, he really prefers the House version. The fact that we're gonna let it go the way it is, and it's gonna go on, the way it's been so far, that the money's gonna be running out of business and doing these fancy things, so that's what we're gonna watch? Why didn't you do it sooner, colleagues? Why are the laws that are here, as my colleague Klán said, that it's useless, why aren't they working? What's the mistake? Will we continue to tolerate this? I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr Stupčuk and Mr Petrů will take the next step with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u28	I'm not going to delay the discussion, but just so we all realize that. The law could have been made right or wrong. We're in a situation right now that the law is wrong, and it's gonna show if it goes through today, how fast we're gonna update it when we're trying to catch up on the stories that he brings into this life. And it's going to be state-owned businesses that suddenly have a lot more problems than we could have imagined. I am in favour of this law being passed, and I agree with my previous speaker's argument that it is necessary. But let's do it right. And I say that only rightly how to do this law is the way of a government draft, where a commentary procedure will be able to absorb all the problems, the disproportion that such a law can cause in application practice. And none of us is so knowledgeable as to be able to write this into the law by way of the parliamentary initiative. And we didn't do this! And that law, with its impact, will just be negative for a lot of social relationships. That's what we haven't considered here, and we haven't found the adequacy of the contents of the law. That's what I'm criticizing, and that's why I have a problem voting on the law, even though I agree with that idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Petrů, Mr Klán will prepare. Please, your point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I really do have a brief understanding, and especially upstairs, to understand what's really going on. A while ago, I ran out of e-mails from State Reconstruction. We will also approve the Public Procurement Act or the register of contracts. And in that e-mail, me. is the offer of Frank Bold's paid services for reconstruction of municipalities. Advantageous contracts for the community, functioning municipal companies, quality public contracts, and further says: "Do you know what the best part is? If, thanks to your activity over the next few months, a city orders its companies to publish contracts, we will also have proof that this is possible for Members." So you know what goes on and who gets it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Klán, with a point of fact, will now be prepared by Mr Fiedler. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Let me respond to the previous speakers who were here saying that the laws I was talking about here could have been valid for a long time. Remember, the Public Procurement Act has been messed up by Nečasův' government. That's the problem, 'cause that's how they pay till today, and then what's going on. Ask the petitioner of the register of contracts who was involved in the preparation of the then amendment to the Public Procurement Act. It was them. So that's one thing. I agree with a colleague of the Petr here who was talking about Reconstruction of the State. Remember who supports the reconstruction of the state. If you look at their brochures, let's start with A: the American Embassy in Prague, we'll start with - the American Chamber of Commerce, the British Embassy in Prague, the British Chamber of Commerce, the Student Agency, to jump further alphabetically, and full of others. Don't you fucking realize what's going on here? This is about destroying our state, this isn't about anything else!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Next in line, Mr Fiedler, Mr Vondráček will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'm not at hand right now, and I don't know the full programming statement of this coalition, but I'm sure there's an appeal to how they're gonna spin corruption and how they're gonna deal with corruption. And if the former Nečasův government messed up here -- I'm not gonna stand up for it -- after the experience you have in the House, as you want to do with the corruption, I already assumed that the coalition colleagues had the right version prepared to be on the table, that there would be this government proposal, the precise proposal that we're going to discuss. He's not here. There's a parliamentary initiative here. A government novel. Colleagues of Social Democracy, don't be mad at me, such as the law of the ERÚ - we voted here today when we discussed the agenda of this meeting, the patch of the huge mess that is there, in the government amendment that you pushed through here by the force of your coalition votes, and even though we filed, the Dawn MP, the correction first, you in the spirit that only coalition corrections and proposals can be voted out, so you woke up after a month and filed with the government, or so your amendment, which is copying our, úsvit, to fix the messs that is there. And now I'm wondering if you even want to fix it, if it's not in a state to really have an ERÚ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Vondráček, after which Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to come here, but when I hear it, I come here for two minutes to respond to Mr Stupčuk, through Mr President. It's not true there's no study. I hope you know that it was processed at the Ministry of the Interior by studying possible economic impacts and that it was available. The law has been in the House since autumn 2013, he's already had a two-year anniversary here, and we spent a year within a working coalition group on the matter of alienating the text. We have introduced the protection of business secrets, we have introduced protection there and that there is no need to mention the need for contracting parties if this could lead to the detection of supplier-customer relationships. We've put in place several other protective measures. The main thing is that, by a court decision, it would happen that the party concerned has blacked out in excess of the rate, so that it can subsequently correct the registration within the time limit, based on the decision of the court. That means we put the emergency brake on. The text is the result of a proposal by many Members from various parties represented by Mr Farský here as an opposition Member and worked on it by coalition parties, working on it at the Ministry. So I know this isn't exactly a day-to-day solution, but he's basically part of a government proposal. This is not a purely House initiative, and we have studied and addressed some of the implications. When you talk about negative impacts, I still miss - and I miss that in all - some particular case and let's talk about it. At this point in time, when the Senate law was taken from us, we castrated it. When he wasn't rejected, they castrated him. And I hope - my colleagues will forgive - that we will have the balls here and overrule the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Now, with Mr Kalousek's factual remark, Mr Černoch will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to make a few, perhaps not entirely continuous remarks about the performance of my previous speakers. Twice here it was said that Nečasův' government messed up the current law standard on public procurement. The nonNečasův government has made a significant effort to increase transparency and significantly strengthen its relations with clients. I'm not saying that everything has worked out, and now it's about whether we want to improve it or reverse it. When I look at the bill that comes out of the secretary's workshop for YES, it's a return to the 90th godfather's years. Is that what you really want? Are you really watching this? I am one of a generation who can now say, given my age, that even when I'm not free, I can always say that I remember even worse times, that I remember times when people who had real power said, "They want to destroy our state!" Well, the state didn't go down, there's a thousand years here, but we wanted to destroy some regime, and we wanted to destroy some ties. For God's sake, the state stayed and always stays. Mr Stupčuk is right. Yes, this law, if it's passed, will break some ties. Let's answer if it's a good thing or a bad thing. Given the generational memory, given that I think it's a good thing that he's gonna break those ties, I'm gonna respond to the sentence that, even if the Member agrees with the idea, he doesn't quite agree with the bill, so I remember a number of people at my father's age who were saying, Comrades, yes, I took a very clear civic position, but I assure you that I do not fundamentally agree with him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Mr Černoch will now speak with a factual remark and prepare Mr Klán. You're jamming the point of fact, okay. Now Mr Klán and Mr Stupčuk will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u40	I just, ladies and gentlemen, won't give up. There was talk of impact studies by Mr Vondráček, through you. He said the impact study was done by the Home Office. But I know more about it, and it was written by your friends from the State Reconstruction that they had other analyses that differed by many millions. And when I was here at second reading saying that I prefer the impact study of the Ministry of the Interior, where they clearly said what the financial intensity of the register would be, you all said: no no no, that's not true, the Ministry of the Interior is wrong, the reconstruction of the state and others is right. So where's the truth? What impact study is true? At the same time, we must make it clear that if the annual report of the registry is not - how much it costs, how much money it will contain people and others - an analysis of access is not enough, an analysis of access from Slovakia, she can also produce a normal analysis of mail access (?), about what she'll be like. I don't think it's gonna be too big, because a citizen, a unique citizen, isn't gonna care that much, maybe it's gonna be interested in some people sitting at the gallery, maybe, and another, to put it this way. So what impact study is actually true? If there's no RIA missing, which should be there, if it's a government proposal, not an MP, it doesn't have to be, it's a mistake. But with this law, it's a big deal, the RIA's supposed to be done. And let's ask ourselves here that we need to mention that corruption in our country is not only on an individual level, but is also a systemic corruption, and it requires systemic solutions. And that certainly doesn't make the contract register!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Stupčuk and Mr Grospič after him. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u42	I will try to make some substantive arguments. The bill, for example, I've already said it doesn't, and now I'm going to talk to my colleague Vondráček as a lawyer. When we look to the purity of the legislative process and the correctness of the solution, for example, what about the measures against inactivity that we have discussed so much here? I'm surprised as a lawyer it leaves you cold. That if, within 30 days, the contract is not published in the register, of course, it goes to the detriment of the state administration, i.e. maladministration, and the state as a result of the fact that those parties will not be able to consume the content of the contract and the performance will be delayed, so they can be compensated for the damage and will be paid by the State. When I warned you about this, you weren't at all able to respond on the constitutional committee! And that law-- that's the first gap that's missing. The second is - who will be responsible for the factual and formal accuracy of the document that will be the subject of publication? Does that mean who will apply special laws that will constitute diversions from the publication? That means, like, for example. a trade secret law or a trade secret regulation or a personal data protection law. Who's gonna filter it? Will it be the author of the document, or will it be the authority that will publish it? Do you have it in the contract? And, of course, there are a lot more questions. So please answer them. Because I believe that if we keep having this discussion, of course, we'll find a lot of blind spots, and that's why I said that law can only be properly done in the form of a government draft. You have put forward a kind of torso, through Mr President Mr Farský, where you have not even been able to express there who will be competent to manage the register. [[Attention on time.]] Which I consider the greatest lapsus of all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mr Grospič and Mr Vondráček are now making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, now that I have listened to the debate on this law and the factual comments, I feel a little bit that I have probably been somewhere else and I have not followed the preparation. Or I have to ask where the others were who were involved in the law. First of all, I want to say no to the fact that this is a law that is half-deputy and half-government. The proposal was parliamentary, the proposal did not count on a number of things, it was made purely in such a way that it would be a good idea for contracts to be published in order for a register of contracts to exist. He was probably inspiring in Slovakia. I know there have been a number of seminars, where these reservations fell. They've never been portrayed in any way. Finally, he passed through the Chamber of Deputies, I say again, with a large part of those who had sincere reservations about him. After he returned from the Senate now, he changed the scope of the absolute nullity of the contract, which goes beyond civil or civil law, that is, to a fine. But I want to say that this is a law that, from my point of view, is toothless, redundant, it introduces another institution that will operate here among the out-of-control mechanisms. Therefore, if we wanted to be in addition to public budgetary control, in addition to the existing responsibilities of municipalities and public corporations, then we should take action, for example, by increasing the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. That is what I think would be completely legitimate and entirely appropriate, but not to create another institution or another obligation that is essentially not for anybody. Neither the citizens nor the municipalities, nor the transparency of the fight against crime will help at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. I knew I shouldn't have come here, originally when I started, because we're renewing the debate that was going on here, about the content. But to respond briefly. And I'm going to react a little bit like Vice Mayor Kromeriz, just like a municipal politician. We agreed to publish contracts in the register that exists, and we are already publishing them. And it's no problem for our city. We do it, there's a system. I'm not saying everything's covered in sunshine. But there's a register available on the public administration portal, and we can already publish contracts there. You say responsibility if it doesn't work, 30 days. But we're already speculating really about things unimaginable to me. If the system goes down for 30 days if it doesn't work. We couldn't accept any law. Well, we couldn't be dealing with any standard here if we're dealing with all these hypothetical questions. I believe that the system is already in place at this point, will be reinforced by hardware, will be more secure, yes, probably also by some extent staffed. But it's not a major problem, like when our vehicle registers and stuff were dropping. I don't think so. You need to get to know it, try to publish a contract. I just still believe it's part of the misunderstand of the institution. The person who's posting it will click on it if I say so, and that's how he made it public. And he's got a record of it. If there is a technical error, the system doesn't work in any way, it goes to the State. But it doesn't mean the brutal penalty of invalidity anymore. Then you said something else, and I forgot what. But that's just for the first thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Černochová will now speak with a point of fact and Mr Stupčuk will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening to the debate for almost two hours. There are arguments that we hear repeatedly. I do not want to disrespect the opportunity of Members to come forward. But I don't know if any of you have Internet on, watching what's happening in the immediate vicinity of the Czech Republic. And if I were to use the words of a classic, Mr. Somr, from one show, I'd say, "Left rocket, right rocket, and you forbid me to smoke." Let's start talking about things we've read today that concern military law! And I would recommend to all young men who go ahead with this microphone, trump themselves into active backups, which we will accept, I believe, in the new law, better conditions for them, and to deal with these fights somewhere at the shooting range.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Next, Mr Stupčuk will speak with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u50	I would like to say to Mrs Černochová that I do not have to sign up for them. Unlike many in my class, I took a reserve command course in Vyškov. I graduated even as a sergeant, and with an officer's rank, I left for backup. So I believe that I have satisfied you in this sense and that I can continue. I am so glad that my colleague Vondráček here mentioned the experience of the publication. I mean, I was the one here who said, "Why are we doing a central register here when we can take advantage of the fact that municipalities have digital official records today, as well as regions?" And yet we know that what interests citizens most is where they live. And that means that there is a real assumption that they will be following the agenda of contractual relations in the municipality or in the region. You turned it down, too. But I'm glad you didn't answer that, because that's how it tells me about the whole process of negotiating the bill in individual readings. Because the question about measures before inactivity, it's just not there. You haven't thought about it. Even aware of the experience that there was a central vehicle register that fell out. And now, take this register out for 40 days, maybe even 20 days, and that suddenly hundreds, thousands of contracts will get there. We know how active the Czech man is. And we know that people like to take advantage of it. I would just like to point out that, in the event of a state action for damages, so-called court fees. So there's not even a financial barrier. And everyone likes to use it because they don't have to make any money in advance. That's what I've been pointing out here. I have also asked the question through Mr President to you, Mr Vondráček, who will be responsible for the factual and formal accuracy of the document in the case of... If you're doing this to yourself in that village, I understand. It's the one who's making it public. But in this case, I'm the author of the document, I have to apply the data protection law, and I'm putting it in the central register that someone else is running. So who's gonna be responsible for this? The operator or the generator? That's not in the law either. So there's a lot of questions I'm saying again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the notes that arrived. Today, from 15.45 to the end of the day, Mrs Langšádlová apologizes, today from 16.00 apologies to Mrs Benešová, today from 16.30 to 23.45 for reasons of work Mr Martin Plíšek apologizes and today from 17.30 to 18.30 for reasons of work Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes. No one is now reporting with a factual remark, in which case I will give the floor to Mr Blažek. Please, you have the floor. Minister Mládek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u52	Hello, thank you for your word. In one aspect I will follow up on Mr Chvojka, namely that I am certainly not one of the favourites of various activists, including the Reconstruction of the State, and I could talk here for hours and hours about what Brno activists have been doing to me and what they have been doing especially to me. Anyway, whether someone likes me or doesn't like me shouldn't cloud my sanity. And let me tell you what, in my opinion, that common sense means today. I think we should put an end to the social quasi-conflict, I'm stressing the quasi-conflict, called the register of contracts. Are we going to end it today by not approving anything at all? Of course not. Are we going to end it by approving the Senate version? Of course not. So I'm prepared to vote for the original MP's version today, because I think the law isn't as bad as I hear it after it's been edited. I think it is a good thing that the House approved Mr Stanjura's opposition proposal that the law would not apply to small municipalities, because it would burden them completely unnecessarily administratively. At the same time, I have to say to my colleagues that I am impressed by the bulldog perseverance of my colleague Farský. I was a little sad about how many different representatives of different parties suddenly found out that they could get political points on it, so they almost claimed that they invented it and wanted to "steal" it. I hope that those who listen to us now understand and monitor the process so that when they want to appreciate someone, they really appreciate him for what he did and not for what he was talking about and what he was artificially connected to. But let me say another thing, and that is also essential, which we should be careful of. The register of contracts is one of the so-called Sunshine laws, as they say in England, they invented it in English in America. I'd just like to warn you, everything in the world that a man creates isn't to be overreacted. The idea that there will be a society or a state where everything will be public, everything will be known, that has been here many times in the past, and no such state has a chance of survival just because there are other countries. Nowadays, for example, when we're living in something that's almost a state of war, the idea that all of our enemies, and I don't even have to name them now, they know everything about us, and we don't know anything about them, so I'm calling for the extent to which they should be. I also refer to the most modern American literature that deals with the effects of those sunshine laws. That's kind of the unintended consequence strap. And what are the consequences? Well, they are also sadly afraid to make decisions today where politicians were not afraid to make their own decisions freely. And I would like to say here that if there is a society, where representatives of the state, i.e. People with power are afraid to make decisions freely, so it is a complete illusion that such a society as a whole can be free. This law, which we have here, I think is to a degree reasonable. Only - and so I also turn to the public, who came here to think about it too - there is really nothing to exaggerate, not even what is to be published, because it threatens the very nature of the state and the very nature of politics. A policy without secrets is absolutely impossible, it has never been like this, and it is impossible for everything to be known. It's completely stupid to think that! And once again, it's written by smarter heads than I am, especially in America, where they have the most experience. There's one more thing I have to say. A comment by my colleague from the Communist Party of Klán about who finances the State's reconstruction, whether they are Američan or Brit or not who - do you know what the saddest part is? It doesn't really matter to me that Američan are sponsoring it, but I'm just fascinated that America, which is supposed to fight the Islamic State today, is supposed to care about how far Russia is going to go, so it has time to deal with what laws apply in the Czech Republic. And I'm rather sad about this America thing, not that I'm interested in who's paying for State Reconstruction, because I have nothing politically against America, and I think that if America weakens, we'll be surprised. End of závěr. The debate we're having about whether or not any company is supposed to know everything, it's not the first, it's done many times. It was conducted in principle, and it is available, e.g. in the period of the French Revolution between the Jacobins, the Girondists and the Royalists. Here's just, uh, really find time, and what we're dealing with here, they've been dealing with, too. All you have to do is read what they said in the Convention and the House at the time, that opinion changed differently, what Danton, Robespierre, St Just and Mirabeau said, and maybe Brissot for the girondists. That's where you have everything we're dealing with. And you know what the biggest part is? Of course, that's the law of the consequences. When the Jacobins who were most for the open society won, they kept everything secret and only executed. So let's not believe this is how it works. It doesn't work, and it's been tried many times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Klán, Mr Urban, has the first. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond by your means to my colleague Blažek. Of course, I partly agree with him. Let me make one more comment. The difference between government and government. What we're introducing here is just the administration of our state. We will not really rule, and this register of contracts can also cause us to give up our own options here in our national state. Let's be aware of that. That's the difference that the multinational capital does. He's pushing national states to give up their regulatory capabilities. And the contract register can help a lot. The second question, which will be directed at the senator, through you, will be that I know that he is the mayor of the city of Čáslav, as he has prepared it at the town hall in Čáslav, this register of contracts, virtually. If he's getting ready for it or if he's still doing nothing. I just want to ask what kind of financial cost he's actually gonna create to keep the registry in there. I wonder, because after all, he's the mayor of a rather large... not the big cities, but the cities to which the register will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with Mr Urban's factual remark, Mr Blažek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Two short notes. One. I don't give a damn who controls and pays for State Reconstruction. I rather resent the way in which the State's reconstruction before the elections approached you and me here in the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe you remember that they said, and it happened to me: if you don't sign it, kid, remember, there's gonna be a document in all the families in your constituency that's gonna recommend that they don't vote you out. All right. They tried, they didn't cross me out. But it's not about me. It's about the pressure, some law that hasn't been written here that you're supposed to commit to supporting him under any circumstances. Well, I think this is a big enough lesson to keep things from happening again. That's the first point. Second point. Anyway, I'm kind of wondering when it comes to public money, public funds, why, for example. The petitioner did not support my amendment, which said that anyone who makes use of public funds in the form of subsidies should also publish contracts, and so that it does not bother the small and medium ones, so it was limited by a relatively high amount, I think I remember it well, CZK 20 million. Overall, according to my information, it is about CZK 67 billion that flows through private entities through subsidies to private entities registered under the Commercial Code. That was in there, too. And even the reconstruction of the state told me that I was some criminal who wanted to minist the law so that it wouldn't be approved, and they were fundamentally opposed, at least in those texts that I had, that I was opposed to the publication here and the contract register. There's so much money flowing through here, the public ones, maybe more than the small communities. Why didn't you support it when you're so interested in looking at public funds? Too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Mr Blažek, Mr Kalousek, is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. A brief response to Mr Klán by you. Well, please, if there's a multinational corporation that's watching with tension today about how this law's gonna end, I'm genuinely sorry about that corporation, because I can't imagine that they're really watching it. Two. Transnational corporations. If European states are to be so weak that they are to actually govern multinational corporations, they will not do so through laws. That's a total illusion. The power in these cases works completely differently. I think they really don't care about the register of contracts, and they have absolutely no influence on whether or not they rule. That's a total illusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark from Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. I do not want to delay, but I am extremely interested in Mr Urban's memory. And I really want to ask him. They will represent you - through the President - Did the reconstruction of the state really say "boy"? In that case, they are not only paid by Babiš, but also weak-eyed, which is a combination that is really hard to reconstruct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. And now, properly logged in. The first is Minister Mládek and after him with priority rights Vice-President Filip. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on this subject. Here it was requested that the government do some analysis of the impact of this law if the House version, the Senate version, is approved. I did it from the point of view of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and confess, I did it in two stages. When it came down, I called the three largest businesses in charge of the MIT, i.e. ČEPS, DIAMO, PKO. And at the P.K.U., the Fuel Commune Ústí, and in the DIAMO, they told me - cool, no problem. Basically, so is CEPS. It's a monopoly company, and at worst, it's going to issue bonds on the public market. So it calmed me down at first, and I thought to myself, we have no problems with that. But then it didn't give me a chance to get a comprehensive analysis of what the impact would be. It'll have a bit of an impact on the MIT in an area where you wouldn't expect it for the first time. It's going to hit some of the subjects involved in rehearsal. For example, the Textile Testing Institute will lose about 9 million because it will be in a situation that it will not be able to have any commercial strategy. They start losing customers massively, as domestic and foreign competition is not obliged to publish. It will be a Physically Technical Testing Institute by about 20 million, Engineering Testing Institute by 43 million. and the Technical and Testing Institute of Construction - there is the greatest impact, up to 200 mil. And of course the negative impact can and will have on the Explosion, which produces very sensitive products, because she will also publish. For these reasons, I would like to ask you all to approve the Senate version, because that is a less bad version. We do not know perfectly safely that it will be without problems, but there will be significantly fewer of them than in the parliamentary version, the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. I have here a point of fact which is addressed to President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u64	I will not repeat our position, because we are consistent, and as we voted last time, we will vote today. But, Minister, or the ministers, where were you at first reading, second reading, third reading? Where were the amendments to take care of those state-owned businesses? Aren't you signed under the bill? We certainly didn't! And now for the last minute, you're telling us how bad it is, how we should approve something else. Then why didn't you write it down?! I already read that it was even a coalition proposal. He's trying to steal the whole thing from a colleague of Farský, and I've been debating it with him for three and a half years. Finally, I voted in favour because you supported the logical or, in my opinion, a good amendment in the House across the political spectrum, so it allowed me to vote in favour. So now don't push us against the wall! We'll talk about Budvar. All right, it's logical that Budvar doesn't do it as the only brewery in the Czech Republic. What did the Minister of Agriculture do for two years? Where was he to defend the business from his resort?! I don't know. I didn't do it. Maybe he's a law-maker. Well, if it is, let the heads of state-owned businesses turn to their ministers! Not at the last minute. When did the Senate put the UOHS there completely senselessly? And now somebody's telling us to vote for the Senate version because you're gonna protect some business. Well, you were supposed to do that in the executives' bill. It's press 42, I really remember. Otherwise, we've got 600 prints, haven't we? That means there was enough time. We don't approve of that at the last minute in the '90s without discussion. Well, don't be mad at me, nice ministers. You guys overslept, you didn't do anything, and now at the last minute, you're trying to vote for the Senate because it would help our businesses. Sorry, it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. I'll read the note that arrived. Mr Pavel Kováčik apologizes from today's meeting between 18:00 and the end of the day. Vice-President Filip is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, it is a difficult decision to make when you want the time of TOP 09 to stop. Because the bill is an extension of TOP 09's rule. And my colleague, Miroslav Kalousek, said it quite clearly here when he said how those ties were to be abolished. You know, the law is a law on certain records, which implies that a colleague of Blažek here said it quite nicely that the company, which will control everything itself and see everything, will not allow any corruption. There's no property confession law. Here the law is quite clear, which is about financial control in the public administration. I have a little better memory than some, and I know very well how this bill really deals with the control of those people who work in public administration, whether they can or cannot abuse public finances. So we just wipe our eyes out with a bill that's supposed to talk about what a contract register is. It's an eye wipe, it's nothing else. Let me put this in two examples to show what happens in this bill. The Ceske Budejovice Teplárna is owned by 80 percent of the city of České Budějovice and will be obliged to publish all contracts from the power supply it produces in the so-called "Ceske Budejovice." cogeneration, i.e. using the steam they produce. The Solar Barons will not publish anything because they failed the proposal of a colleague Urban. They'll laugh, laugh at all those who will publish contracts, and say to themselves, "You're such idiots! [[with emphasis]] Publish and we'll live with billions from the state, because we're not going to publish anything, we're a private entity. That is the subject of this law. That's exactly what this law is about! Second example, even more dramatic. I'm begging you, I'm offended by the stupid things I hear! When someone tells me it's a little private interest. I'll tell you the interest. Prague's gasworks - as well as Prague's Transport Company or the Ostrava or Pilsen Transport Company - will publish contracts. But NET4GAS, owned by German Allianz, will publish nothing. Prague's gas company invested honestly, and now it doesn't matter that ODS ruled here in Prague or anyone else, social democracy, it doesn't matter, but this company invested in gas infrastructure in Prague to keep those pipes from blowing up. There was one that blew up, and we almost closed the National Theatre. [[16.30 hours]] But NET4GAS, which owns large pipes through the Czech Republic, did not invest 4 billion in the last financial year. Kroner, that means he didn't give companies who were supposed to work here in Bohemia for 4 billion. CZK, although the money is calculated in the price of the gas supplied. Then his board of directors and the supervisory board met, reduced their assets pretty well and exported from this state without this government saying anything, 12 billion. CZK to Germany in cash! That's what publishing contracts is all about. Since the private company NET4GAS, owned by Allianz, is not publishing anything. And the Prague gas company will publish everything. How long will the city be able to maintain the Prague Gas Station? How long will we suffer from solar barons laughing at us? You really want a paquilas like this? I could say that the Senate approved that Budvar would not be there, I as Budějovičák would be satisfied and I would be sure that Budvar would not destroy the competition. But it's not enough for me! I must agree with my colleague Stupčuk that I do not want to vote in favour of pasquil, under pressure. Allow me to read, and I have been sticking to this for a long time, that Article 26 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic says that Members and Senators carry out their mandate personally in accordance with their promise and are not bound by any orders. I've been sticking to it for a long time. Because I've been dealing with too many years, 37 years, state theories, I know what groups of pressure are. That's the most disgusting thing there is in politics! These are those who have not been elected anywhere because people have rejected their mandates because they have behaved, forgive me, against those people who elected them in the last term. And these guys start a group of pressure, start writing all kinds of gadgets, buy time in the media from private companies that cut their fortunes and export money, and then I've been listening for a week about what kind of criminal I'm gonna be if I don't raise my hand for it. Yes, I'm not afraid of it, because I know why I'm voting in favour or against. And really, when I was first approached by the State Reconstruction, I told them that nine out of ten points were part of the Communist Party's electoral agenda and that I would never sign anything without reading it. And I did well as many of my colleagues, because I will only vote for the law that I will have read, and I will know that I am able to bear the responsibility for raising my hand for it, not for something that someone will tell me in advance as an idea, and then the implementation will actually be not for the benefit of the citizens, but for their total failure. Now let me quote without quote the content of Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms: all ownership forms are equal. How is it possible that private owners, although receiving subsidies for solar energy, do not publish anything and the heat plant in Budějovice will publish everything? [[Applause from Members of the KSČM.]] Where is the equality of citizens before the law? Where is the equality of ownership forms? So are we going to vote against the Constitution or not? And you're telling me that we're going to fix this by making a changeling. I beg you, what do you want to discuss this for? This is a law that is against the interests of the Czech Republic, against the interests of the public sector, in favour of those who want to abolish any public sector, whatever the state, city or community or also civil association owns today under the law of the association. The law is wrong! And I am convinced that it is our duty to reject him. And not just refuse to do anything against corruption. Okay, let us use the Senate resolution, take advantage of the fact that we can impose on the government as the Chamber of Deputies, because I hope that we are still in parliamentary democracy, and we can impose on the government to present a bill that will address how public-money contracts are registered. Not the eye wiper, but the real negotiation of when anyone who uses public money, including those private firms that don't invest, will have to publish contracts from this republic! Then I'll be happy to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u67	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'm registering two applications with priority rights. The first is Minister Mládek and after him is Minister Dienstbier. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not generally wish to question Vice-President Filip's speech, but I still have one technical point to make. NET4 company GAS doesn't exclusively own Allianz. Allianz is only a 50% owner, the second owner is the Borealis Infrastructure, a Canadian fund founded by Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement Systems, a pension fund of American and Canadian municipal employees. So it's not just Allianz, it's also Kanaďan, half and half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark from Mr Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u70	Allow me to respond to Minister Mládek. It doesn't really matter who owns it, does it? The point is, money goes out of our republic, so it doesn't matter who the foreign owner is, but that money doesn't stay here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Now, then, Minister Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u72	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I do not wish to comment on the scope of the bodies to be covered by the law, because this is probably a legitimate question to discuss to what extent competitive relations can affect the obligation to publish contracts. I would rather comment on the House versus Senate mechanism, on the one hand, the condition of effectiveness, on the other hand, the financial penalty. I fear that, in the Senate form of imposing sanctions on the UOHS, the system will not fully comply with what was at least declared expected of it. I do not suspect the vast majority of, perhaps, municipal or regional politicians from not deciding responsibly, but if we have doubts that there may be any strange contracts in individual cases that are then classified from public control, then, in the case of a House version where there is a condition of publication as a condition of effectiveness, the control can, of course, work because, if under such a contract, someone will carry out, of course risks the need to settle the performance without legal reason in the event that the contract never takes effect. If a penalty is followed in combination with the fact that it is to be assessed and imposed by the UOHS, it can be done in, for example, ten years, in the meantime, the contract will be fulfilled, so those who would possibly behave dishonestly will incur dishonest profit and, after ten years, when someone has a final decision, or even in the administrative justice system, some completely different leadership of the community that will be there after several elections. If the law is to do its part, I suppose it can only be fulfilled in the House approved form. I have doubts as to the financial sanctions that they would be effective. As I say, the second question is a circle of subjects. Unfortunately, it is mixed, and the changes proposed by the Senate cannot be assessed individually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, Minister. We will now continue with those who are duly enrolled in the debate. The first is Mr Hovorka and Mr Opálka will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues, it would certainly be interesting if someone calculated how much funds have been thrown out of the state budget since 1990, from the budgets of the contribution organisations and, if necessary, from the city's contribution organisations. I would remind you that a lot of money has flown from the state enterprise České dráhy through disadvantageous contracts. I know the case, for example, of the Hospital Na Homolce, which has established two subsidiaries as a contribution organization in order not to have to publish certain things. It was a classic move to avoid simply making things public. Through those two subsidiaries, the medical insurance funds were leaving the hospital, and they just went out and went into private hands. I filed a criminal report on the case. The police have been investigating for two years, then the D.A. put it off that nothing happened. Then Minister Holcát found the courage, carried out a public administrative check at the hospital, and a police investigation was reopened and, if you know, certain persons were charged. I consider this law important. It is certainly not omnipotent and omnipotent, but it is an important step to correct a number of things that are not set well in the Czech Republic. I intercede for the law to be adopted in the House version, because the version that has been returned to us from the Senate will not solve anything, it will not be enforceable. Like you have to ask for information under Law 106 today, you ask for the information, and the other one, the mandatory subject, is not willing to disclose the information. You can sue. You're gonna sue for, like, three years, you're gonna win the trial, but then the information may not be of any use to you either. Therefore, for these reasons, I really call on you, colleagues, to support the House version, which is clearly better. If there's a problem with Budvar's state enterprise, it can be removed. On the fact that we do not want to accept the pasculi what my colleague said here before me, through the President, in 2013 I pointed out here that the proposal for the Civil Code is not okay for us not to accept it. We were told that it must be accepted in the form it is, as it is, that it is no longer possible to postpone. Today we know that a whole bunch of things are wrong there and have to be amended. No law is such that it is absolutely perfect, and it simply needs to be amended over time. In this way it is possible to eliminate the problem that concerns Budvar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Opálka is now duly registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I will not speak long. I would like to put forward one of the procedural possible proposals. But I would like to start by saying: I am here in the fourth term, I am one of the older ones, although not the oldest. A lot of bad guys have come out of this House. [[Laughs in the hall.]] The public appreciated it. And I wouldn't want to be involved in this asshole - not only being an asshole and constantly being repaired - having an irreversible reach for the public and the state sector. That's the problem I have with this. If you publish a contract, it doesn't mean it's invalid, even if it's stupid. It's just that the contract will be published. The process, as my colleague Klán said, must be based on the beginning. Tell me what it's gonna do if you have bad contracts posted. There's nothing anyone can do about it. The contracts will be valid. That is why I think that this folklore of Members may belong to some individual amendments. But to create an entire law that is so complicated, which involves cross-cuttingly different departments, which needs internal, external, responsible management, which needs RIA, and that, of course, is only for the government. So I'm suggesting this solution here. Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on paragraph 1 at the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, House press 42. It is, of course, a conditional procedural proposal, because we can only vote on it if neither the Senate nor the parliamentary proposal passes. And now on the text of the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to immediately initiate legislative work on a government bill on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the registration of contracts /Law on the register of contracts/. In the case of this proposal, the government should not only rely on the knowledge of previous discussions and, in particular, on the impact analysis of regulations /RIA/, so that the new law complements existing anti-corruption laws, such as the Public Procurement Act and the draft law on internal control of public finances, and that equality between different forms of ownership in the market environment is protected." So much for the whole text that I propose if neither the Senate nor the MP's proposal is adopted. I think that we will make it clear to the public and therefore also to the State's reconstruction that we want to resolve this problem, but we want to resolve it radically, professionally, competently and, of course, during this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I noted your proposal. Anyway, if we vote on it, I'll ask you for a written copy. Thank you. We will now continue the debate. It is duly registered by Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear to all that both draft rules for the contract register are wrong. For our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy of the SPD, I would like to stress that we are fighting corruption in the state administration and in the public sector, and it is undoubted that the political parties so far have had much time in recent years to effectively prevent corruption in the state administration, but they have not done so. The publication of company contracts in a competitive environment is murderous. Try asking any corporation to show you, for example, their advertising and marketing contracts, and they'll look at you as a fool, because only a madman will plan a campaign to outrun competitors, and then introduce this campaign to the competition to prepare for it. Each of us can imagine dozens of companies that operate in competition with companies with state participation or state property and which undoubtedly now finance lobbying for unconditional publication of all contracts. Another controversy of this proposal is the annulment of the contract in the event of non-publication. This means that, for example, a 100-million-dollar project can jeopardize an administrative error or criminal intent. Competition will no longer have to intricately challenge competitions at the Antimonopoly Office, but it is enough to bribe the official and the public contract and the public legal competition only by not posting it on the web, for example. This seems even crazier to me than the previous condition. Moreover, I have no idea how partners from abroad would view such cancellations. Imagine a company that competes with the contract, then invests in its preparation and eventually learns that the contract was cancelled due to non-publication. I believe that this will immediately mean courts and arbitration on damages. Compensation, which will unfortunately not be paid by any lobbyist who lobby for this form of law, but by taxpayers. The fact that the law is non-standard is also apparent from the fact that legal entities established abroad and operating abroad are excluded from the scope. It is clear that in conflict with laws abroad, this law would not stand. [[16.50 hours]] Finally, I'm asking myself what we really want to do with the register. Overpriced contracts? Unnecessary contracts? Corruption? The problem is not in contracts, as competitions are always cleverly written, but the problem is that responsible officials at national level do not have direct personal material and criminal responsibility and efficient management. It is this specific law on the personal material and criminal liability of top politicians that I proposed in the House last year and the government coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement voted against this law and rejected it for me. This is proof, I think, that we in our SPD movement are serious about the fight against corruption and that these are not just words but also actions. The Supreme Audit Office reveals every year the waste behind which the tunneling of public money in the order of hundreds of millions is hiding, and show me how this affects the people responsible? None! The Supreme Audit Office will grant fines, and they will be paid by us taxpayers. So what really happens is that thieves steal something from the state, and when it bursts, the punished one is robbed, i.e. a citizen of the Czech Republic from his taxes. Of course, there is a second view of logic - better a law that allows us to look under the cover of public money management than nothing. I understand that the exceptions raise suspicion, and the objection that fines are not deterred in many cases is entirely justified, the more so when they are paid again by the citizen and not directly by the responsible person. I think the initial mistake is that we are discussing such a law under such strong lobbyist pressure. I don't want to underestimate the importance of public pressure. There is nothing more necessary than to make public management more transparent, and I know that without the pressure of citizens, we would not be discussing such a law here today. Finally, I would like to say that we should definitely support the Treaty Register Act and, at the same time, we should start discussing immediately how to fine-tune the biggest problems I have talked about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u79	I thank you, too, and since I'm not registering... I'm filing an application - President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u80	Hello. Please understand, there are so many arguments that I dare ask for 30 minutes for a club meeting before the final vote - 28 to meet in one piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u81	Twenty-eight or thirty-eight? I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u82	Twenty-eight to meet in one piece.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u83	So if you're asking for a 28-minute break, I'll meet you in that case at 16.20. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] At 5:20 p.m., and we'll continue the negotiations. I'm calling a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 17.20 hours, a pause has passed at the meeting of the TOP 09 and the starosta. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. The plaintiff is interested in the final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u85	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate, especially the part that concerned the register of contracts. I would just answer some - or hopefully all - unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u86	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I know you guys are thanking for the debate, but I don't thank the Members for having the debate right now. Please transfer your debates to the galleys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u87	As far as Slovakia is concerned, it is valid there from 1 January 2011 in various versions, but the Czech version is based on it and I consulted the authors of the Slovak version and prepared it in the first version of 2012, which is the version of 2013. It is not that it does not reveal anything in Slovakia, there are overpriced contracts, expenses which register contracts, when it turned out at which prices are purchased, so it led to competition offering at the same quality at a better price and savings. But that's not the primary task of the law. The primary task is to prevent those contracts from ever being concluded, the disadvantageous contracts. I believe that, at least as Prime Minister Radičová put it, that's how it works. Some proof of what the law is for, and that is for two fundamental things, to complement what is missing most in politics, the means so that promises can be fulfilled and also trust, because without trust and perhaps even today, or especially in today's dangerously difficult times, trust in political leaders is extremely important. And in Slovakia, Slovakia has risen by 11 rungs on the list of perceptions of corruption in the country, and that is a huge success if - because I associate it with whether people trust their representatives or not. Why I did not support Mr Urban's proposal over the $20 million. Well, because it was miswritten. The idea that a company that receives a $20 million grant and has a billion turnover will have to publish all the contracts that are in that billion would not be reasonable. If it were to be determined that the grant would be from 20 million and that it would have to mean 70 percent of the turnover, or 80, or 50 percent of the turnover of the company, and then it would become a mandatory entity, I would have imagined it by now. And so I have expressed myself and I continue to express myself. As far as the possible threat to companies that were mentioned here is concerned, I would like to say that the Act on the Register of Contracts maintains all the exceptions given by the Law on Free Access to Information of 1999, and does not extend the scope of mandatory entities, so where information is of any value to competition, it could either have obtained them over a hundred and sixty or otherwise, but it already has them today. The register of contracts responds to this in § 5 in para. 6, where it says that in the case of contracts that contain business secrets, or chain of contracts that are in themselves a business secret, for example by revealing the customer chains, only a part of the contract may be published from the contract, namely the subject matter and the date of its conclusion. Personally, I don't think that's enough, but it's exactly the insurance policy to make sure that the warning voices that sound here about the business of state-owned companies, national businesses and controlled companies aren't justified. I would just like to add to what is forgotten and what there are a lot of objections. Both parties have the opportunity to publish the contract. They're not in an unequal position. Similarly, a supplier as a customer, a public body like that service supplier, or work, can be made public on both sides of the contract, so there can be no unequal position that could lead to blackmail or some unfair practices. I would like to ask you not to vote and support the Senate proposal in the vote that awaits us, because it is inoperable, it will be polite to obstruct and not restrict the rude. And before we make unnecessary regulations, please, let's not do any. In fact, nothing is better than a Senate law. Of course, I'd like to have the votes for the House version found here. The House version here on September 18 went through the votes of 116 Members, I think from 157 present. In the debate in the Senate and in the debate here, I did not see an argument that would justify why those who supported the House version on 18 September should not do so today. So I ask you and I call on you not to vote for the Senate version, because the Senate version is not a register of treaties, and to vote for the House version, so that you remain on your point of view, which you have already expressed here on September 18th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u88	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. Now I ask the senator's final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for the floor. I would take this opportunity to answer the two questions that were on me, Mr Adamec's question. Indeed, representatives of the Senate, members of the Committee on Territorial Development, have come to this knowledge that no sanctions have been applied in the last five years against the non-publicisation of the contract. Next, Mr Klán asked how we do it in Čáslav. We're doing the same thing as the deputy mayor of Kroměříž told us about this. Of course, we have been publishing contracts for several years on an electronic official record. That's no problem at all. We can publish it on, like, three albums. The problem here is with the state-owned businesses. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-001-001.u90	Thank you, Mr. Senator. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, according to House press 42/11, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 42/12.' [[Act on the Register of Contracts]] There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Please note that President Jan Hamáček has a replacement card number 61. On the resolution, as I have put it, on the version returned to the Senate, I put it to a vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is serial number 19, with 161 Members, for 27, against 92. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not agreed to and accepted the draft law as approved by the Senate. [[17.30 hours]] We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Please set up the necessary kvora. It's already done. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on special conditions for the application of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, as amended by the Senate's referral, according to House Press 42/11.' [[Act on the Register of Contracts]] I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 20, 161 Members are registered, for 110, against 26, the proposal has been adopted. I state that we have given our consent to the bill. [[Let's hear it.]] Sorry, I still have the accompanying resolution proposed by Mr Opálka. It's not like that. So I'm done discussing this bill. I thank the plaintiff and the senator. The next item is:
