ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u1	221. Agriculture subsidy programmes for 2016 provided pursuant to Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended /German press 663/ This submitted material will also be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, the grant programmes for 2016 are based on Section 1 and Section 2 of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, which provide that the State contributes to maintaining the production potential of agriculture and its contribution to the development of rural areas. At the same time, it creates the prerequisites for maintaining a populated and cultural landscape and developing non-production functions of agriculture that contribute to protecting environmental components. The subsidy programmes, which are financed exclusively from national resources, are referred to in Article 2 (2) of the basic Regulation. 2 of the above Act implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and administered on the basis of its principles. The submitted material contains subsidy programmes for 2016, the purpose of which, including the scope of the funds under Section 2d of the said Act, approves for each year Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at the same time as the state budget. The subsidy programmes follow up on the already proven programmes established by previous governments. The programmes were analysed and found to be effective and supplemented where appropriate. The programmes are specifically intended to promote restructuring and increase the competitiveness of the Czech agricultural sector. In the proposal presented, animal production is preferred by the amount of appropriations allocated. The reason for this is an attempt to prevent the adverse development of certain livestock sectors, which is essential for maintaining employment in the countryside and which currently loses its position mainly in pig and poultry farming areas, even though there are conditions for competitive production under the conditions of the Czech Republic. It is already included in the 2015 approved programme 16 Maintaining and restoring the cultural heritage of the countryside, the purpose of which is to maintain and restore cultural elements of the rural landscape that do not serve personal use or are not the subject of business. This program was not launched in 2015 due to a dysfunctional IT system for administration and its unused funds of 200 million. CZK will be used to strengthen the approved funds for 2016. The aim of the programme is to increase the tourist attraction of the rural area and thus contribute to its recovery. [[10.50 hours]] For the first time, the grant programmes shall include: the 2.D programme used for the purchase of breeding animals aimed at improving the genetic value of the herd of bovine, ovine and caprine animals; Programme 17 Support for non-production functions of fishing areas aimed at improving the biological diversity of fish stocks in surface waters intended for users of fishing areas. This programme has been approved as a K2015 programme for 2015 alone recently; Programme 18 Supporting the activities of food banks and other humanitarian stakeholders to contribute to reducing food waste and supporting food distribution to people at the limit of material distress. Furthermore, programme 19 Aid for the participation of producers and processors of agricultural products in quality schemes for improving market opportunities and achieving added value for milk and milk products; Next program 20 Support for above-standard animal welfare to improve the welfare of dairy cows introduced to eliminate the health risks of dairy cows and to ensure the production of quality dairy raw materials. [[Noise in the hall.]] The last two programmes will be implemented only after their approval by the European Commission, where we have more or less discussed these programmes, we are waiting for official notification. In accordance with § 2d para. 1 of Law No. 250/1997 Coll. the purpose and scope of the funds proposed for each programme shall be indicated. There is also a form of subsidy and justification for the aid. These subsidy programmes do not contradict international agreements and agreements by which the Czech Republic is bound. The conditions for submitting applications, deciding and granting subsidies will be governed by the principles of the Ministry of Agriculture and will be published next year. The draft funding for the 2016 subsidy programmes is set at 2.25 billion. Crowns. In view of this fact, the draft budget for the 2016 agricultural subsidy programmes corresponds to the possibilities of the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u3	I will ask you, colleagues, once again to calm down and ask you to do so in the foyer if you have a need to discuss. Thank you. Please, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u4	Programs of agriculture, programs of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2016 - this corresponds to our financial possibilities. Distribution of funds: individual subsidy programmes are directed to the livestock sector of a total of CZK 1.64 billion, to the plant production sector of 240 million, to the food industry of 159 million CZK and to other activities of CZK 203 million. The proposal for subsidy programmes was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 2 November and was also discussed on 10 December on the Committee on Agriculture. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please approve these grant titles for 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u5	I also thank you, Minister, and I will now ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Ladislav Velebný to inform us about the committee's deliberations and also to present a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, honourable Members, the agricultural committee met and discussed on 10 December at its 26th meeting of the House Press 663 and adopted the resolution on the 2016 agricultural subsidy programmes as follows: After the opening words of the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, the report by Mr Ladislav Velebný, and after the debate recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to grant programmes of agriculture for 2016 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, House Press 663, approved, instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u7	Thank you. I am opening up a general debate and first I will read the note that came to me. Today, from 14:00 p.m., Mr Jan Volný apologizes for reasons of work. Today, from 10 to 13 o'clock due to a doctor's visit, Mr Daniel Korte apologizes. ADne 17. 12. and 18. 12. For personal reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes. And now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Herbert Pavera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u8	Good morning and good morning again. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you a few things about the previous point that we had here - the draft budget of SZIF. We didn't support him for reasons I've already said here. Let me just get this straight. Certainly, if the reasons for the next budget are removed, we will certainly be inclined to support SZIF. The things that bothered us and that I mentioned are, on the one hand, an increase in the number of employees. I believe that will not happen next year. Then the show's the support of the Class. I am saying and pointing out that it is there that we want to support regional food and farmers and the sale of farmers, which I must say is that the minister already does. So then direct payments and distribution, if we also know at least a percent in advance what money will go to certain things in direct payments, then I think that we can also agree on support there next year, because subsidies for agriculture, already said here, are necessary because they are in all of Europe. I perform every time a subsidy is pronounced, so I act against subsidies. You know well that as the mayor of the village, I meet it today and daily, that I have to apply for subsidies, and I always say that subsidies are a bad thing, they distort the market and they shouldn't be. So we will see how the European Union will deal with this in time. If the European Union cancels subsidies, of course, we will certainly treat it the same way in our country. But now we are going to talk about the agricultural subsidy programmes, and here I think that we will agree with the Minister and support this programme for several reasons: on the one hand, there is support for beekeeping, gardening and fishing, which I think is very positive. I can say positive that there is also support for the countryside and cultural monuments. The Minister took the support of monuments in the countryside under his gesture, because it is no longer in the Gesture of the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of Culture. And when it comes to the Rural Development Programme, the rural development includes the restoration of cultural monuments, such as sacral buildings and the like, which are mostly in the vicinity of municipalities or perhaps even in the municipalities themselves. We certainly support the fact that there is support for the activities of food banks. In fact, in times of migration and in times of non-migration, it is necessary to have a food bank, because there are a number of socially weak people who need our support, so I don't think that's a bad idea. And when I compare it, the increase in this programme is about 700,000 compared to last year, and most of this money goes to support the disease fund, it is the promotion of pig farming, poultry and, of course, cattle and other things, which we think is good to support animal production, and, of course, pig breeding, because we all know that pig farming in the Czech Republic has gone radically down in our agriculture. In 2015, there were 14 grant titles. This year is 18. The Minister has explained why. I think they're well designed. And we, TOP 09 and the Mayors, will actually support this grant scheme for agriculture for 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Petr Bendl, who has been duly applied for, to make his contribution. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u10	Thank you for the floor. 2.25 billion crowns on subsidies. It is presented this material, where almost all the headlines sound fantastic and great. And man, if he looked at the title of those grant titles, he'd be thinking, "Oh, hooray, there's something positive going on. But the devil is often in the details. [[11.00 hours]] I want to say that there are a number of things that need support because, for example, beekeepers, even if you add up the support of beekeepers, I realize now that if you add up the support of beekeepers coming from SZIF, that's about CZK 61 million, 80 million that go here, that's not enough. And I think we should keep an eye on the efficiency of the resources spent again. Will the money really get to the beekeeper so we can know the whole procedure? I'm not questioning the height. I was always that and the Central Bohemian Region during our time on the border was actually pioneers in the search for a system of support for beekeepers and beekeepers. Because this sector has a lot of problems that it can't solve on its own, and it needs state support. However, it is already CZK 140 million and we should protect any tendency to abuse. I'm not saying they are. But people are often just people. When we were discussing this stuff on the committee, I criticized a few things and praised a few things, including beekeeping. But I criticized the level of support for consulting and consulting firms, and so on, because those roughly CZK 60 million to go into counseling, I think these funds would be more worthy of other areas, and I was rejected by the committee that this is needed and that the 60 million is not enough and that the Ministry of Agriculture saves elsewhere for advice. Yes, it doesn't wear much advice in those EU grant titles, thank God, I think it's good. There was a lot of money being lost and often inefficient. I would rather see the money in the solution to the drought, the muddying of ponds, what we are talking about in the long term, that it should be among the priorities of the Czech Republic in the field of agriculture. And that's where I'd really rather see the funds than put 60 million into counseling. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] We mentioned an area that is close to me, and that is the breeding of horses, where there are resources for the purchase of breeding animals, where the state wants to support the improvement of the genetic value of herds of cattle, sheep and goats. But since we also have organizations dedicated to the genetic fund in the area of horse breeding, I said it bothers me that it doesn't apply to them. Because I know the financial situation of our organizations at this point in time, and I know they can't afford to significantly improve the genetic fund. And when you're talking to people who work in this area, you're basically, rather than really taking advantage of the potential we have here, the best of the genetic material from abroad. And it's a shame. So now that we're moving in this area and creating a grant fund, I think the horses would definitely deserve to be listed as farm animals. The minister said there'd be rules next year. I'd ask because that's a very broad term, that's 12 months, so if he could tell when they're going to be published -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u11	I apologize, Mr Member, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you again, colleagues, especially in the centre of the hall, to discuss the topics you need to discuss, to go to the lobby and not to disturb during the speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u12	- when the conditions and rules of the possibility of drawing shall be issued and published. I think anyone who sees those titles will be interested. So if there's any way to narrow it down so everyone knows when something's gonna happen in this regard. At the same time, it bothers me for a long time - and maybe there's an opportunity to say when new grant titles are created. I have a longstanding problem with the fact that the state does not have a system to deal with the abuse of large livestock. Because the situation today is that veterinarians at the moment when they identify the abused sheep, goats, cows, horses, so because they have nowhere to put the abused animals, there is no system built, so we are witnessing that long-term veterinarians have to face an unsolvable situation. We've been pointing that out to the agricultural committee. My colleague Balaštíková and I have been delegated by the Committee to a working group that was established at the Ministry of Agriculture in the field of horse breeding support and systemic solution for horse breeding support in the Czech Republic, which is related to this topic. From this point of view, I call on the Minister of Agriculture to finally do something in this area after two years because it is necessary to address the situation. It is not possible for veterinarians to be able to remove the animal in the finals, save the abused animal so that they can ensure cultivated good living conditions for animals that are proven to be abused and must remain in those areas and facilities in which they live. Maybe it's one of the areas where some degree would, I don't mean subsidy, it's just supposed to be a systemic measure that would help give veterinarians a chance to remove the abused animal, give the state a chance to order some other farms, farms, etc. the possibility of housing the animal there and then solving its future. We haven't dealt with this situation in the Czech Republic in the long term, and maybe this area or this area could contribute to some sort of solution. I beg you, Minister, to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u14	I will try to be very brief and constructive. There are other points that would be good to discuss. I am merely advising on this because, indeed, this chapter has been significantly slimmed in the European funds of the Rural Development Programme. We have a lot of disgruntled initiatives from practice, so here we decided not to slim it down, because we also financed significantly enhanced possibilities of support for Czech companies at foreign trade fairs from autumn. So that's why I don't want to cut this envelope here because we've expanded here, and it's already been shown to us in the fall - a hugely increased interest of the companies that went to Anugu in Germany, and we're counting on it until next year. So it's only possible, there's only the name of counseling, but also allocated this support. Don't encourage horses. I have to say that the grant title of 2.D is a new title, we're testing it as it starts next year. The portfolio of what we can support is so broad that we will never be able to satisfy it. I'll just say yes to the horses, we can think about it next year. I just want to say here at the House plenary that horses, sheep and goats are three categories of animals that we grow. Their states are growing in the Czech Republic. Everyone else is falling. So that's why we're primarily trying to aim this support for cattle. And one last thing, I take the initiative from Mr Bendl, thank you for him, to see how systemic it is resolved not only by taking the animals away, but then how we can secure the animals. We have some of our capacity here in terms of studs and stallions. But, of course, for other categories of livestock, we as a resort have no capacity, so let's see what we can do here in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u15	Thank you, too, Minister. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I will end the general debate and ask the rapporteur, Mr Minister, if you want final words at this stage. It's not like that. We will proceed to a detailed debate. I see the rapporteur is applying for it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the resolution of the agricultural committee in which it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the grant programmes of agriculture for 2016 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, the House Press 663, approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-003-221.u17	I also thank you and ask if anyone else wants to join the detailed debate. This is not the case, in which case I am ending the detailed debate. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby to come and vote. I have a request for your check-out, so I'll sign you out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. For the record, I say that I conclude a detailed debate and ask the rapporteur and the Minister if you want to take the final words. It's not like that. In that case, the motion for a resolution was tabled. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution as it has been loaded here. If you agree, raise your hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 334, registered 131 Members, for proposal 122, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you both to the Minister and to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. We will proceed to the next item according to the approved programme and that is
