ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 58/1995 Coll., on insurance and financing of exports with state aid and on supplementing Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended / House print 352 - second reading Under the authority of the Government, this bill will be presented by the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Insurance and Financing of Export with State Support. Draft amendment of Act No. 58/1995 Coll. is presented in accordance with Government Order No 744 of 10 October 2012 on the basis of the audit conclusion of the Supreme Audit Office of Audit Action No 744 of 10 October 2012 11/11 Money provided by the Czech Export Bank from the state budget and the management of this company with funds guaranteed by the state, the exercise of state shareholder rights in the Czech Export Bank. The audit conclusions show the need for consistent control of the Czech Export Bank by the Ministry of Finance, both from the position of provider of annual subsidies from the state budget and from the position of significant shareholder in the control of the activities of the Czech Export Bank in the provision of loans. The main changes that are the subject of the draft amendment to the Export Insurance and Financing Act with State aid increase the transparency of the products provided by the supported financing and the Ministry of Finance will allow effective control of the grant from the state budget. To this end, the draft law provides for the issuance by the Export Bank of information concerning loans granted under supported export financing. For the purpose of monitoring the grant from the state budget, it is proposed that bank secrets be broken for the purposes of controlling the supported financing provided by the Czech Export Bank. [[16.20 hours]] On 28 January 2015, the draft amendment was discussed by the Committee on Budgets and approved with some amendments. On 6 May 2015, the proposal was discussed by the Constitutional Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and approved without further amendments. Following the amendment of Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, which implements the Solvency II Directive, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Export Guarantee and Insurance Company and the Czech National Bank, prepared an amendment to Act No. 58/1995 Coll., which will be submitted as a parliamentary proposal. The adoption of this proposal will allow for further smooth operation of EGAP, without entitlement to significant capital increases under the Solvency Capital Requirements, which, given the State's guarantee for EGAP's liabilities, appears to be unjustified. It is proposed to determine the amount of EGAP's primary capital as a percentage of the calculated Solvency Capital Requirement. The proposal further defines the nature of the authorised activities granted by the CNB EGAP, specifying which provisions of the Insurance Act are not applicable to EGAP activities, respectively. apply in the light of the specificity of its activities and provides for the exercise of supervision. The transitional provision simultaneously transferring authorisation for authorisation under the new legislation ensures continuity of EGAP activities. Other changes have only a specific or legislative technical character. The effectiveness of the amendment to the Act on Insurance and Financing of Export with State Aid is proposed in the amendment on 1 September 2015, with the exception of provisions relating to the status of EGAP following the amendment of the Act on Insurance, for which it is proposed to be effective on 1 January 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. On 21 January at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Committee on Budget and Constitutional Law. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that, if it is not clear to the Chamber of Deputies before the amendment is effective, the Guarantee Committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore propose that the Committee on Budgets be designated by the Committee on Guarantees. Anybody else have a suggestion, please? It's not like that. We will therefore vote that the Committee on Budgets be a guarantee committee on this bill. [[Call off the microphone.]] I have called our colleagues from the lobby, and I am opening the vote to make sure that the Committee on Budgets is a guarantee committee on this bill. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Excuse me, I have a request for everyone to check out. I therefore declare this vote confusing. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. After the number of persons present has settled, I am opening the vote on determining the Committee on Budgets as the guarantee committee for this bill. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 32, 132 Members and Members, for 131, against none. We have accepted the motion. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 352/1 to 3. I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. So now I'm gonna do my reporting duty and then I'm just gonna report to a debate where I'm gonna say my personal opinion. The Committee on Budgets discussed the proposal on 28 January. We have discussed two amendments. One submitted by the Volný Member, I presume, consulted by the Ministry of Finance, said so also at the meeting of the Budget Committee. The Committee on Budgets recommended this amendment and approved it. The second one presented by Mr Kalousek, who was concerned that we should not break bank secrets, was not approved by the Committee, but at the same time the Committee adopted a resolution to introduce you to. I have to propose this to the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government consider the transformation of the legal form of the Czech Export Bank into a form of a company which would not be subject to the law on banks, and in the Czech legal system banking secrecy has not been broken." This is the entire resolution of the Committee on Budgets, with the amendment approved. And then I'm just reporting for the debate, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur Zbyněk Stanjur. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, who is not present. [[Call off the microphone.]] According to my information, however, the constitutional committee did not propose any change, so there is no need to justify the change when it was not proposed. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Stanjura has already issued an application. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u6	Thank you for the floor. Not as a rapporteur now, but with my personal opinion and observation. If you open the explanatory memorandum, the petitioner in two places and the government here stresses that if we approve the bill in the submitted form, there will be a breach of banking secrecy. I, and not just me, believe that this is extremely dangerous. Because when it's done for the first time, then other ministers will come and say, "You've already approved it at the Czech Export Bank, we've already broken the banking secret once, which is why I'm proposing for this office, for this office, for this Ministry, for this, for more and more. I would like to invite you to reconsider. The other points are in principle of a technical nature, on which I think there is agreement, including the amendment tabled by Mr Volný. However, for our club, if the paragraph stays there, the proposal is unvoting in the sense that we cannot support it. That's why I'm formally filing a motion to dismiss the law at third reading. If, however, in the context of the discussion of the paragraph, amendment point No. 3 breaking bank secrets has been removed from the bill, then we are ready to support the bill. Indeed, this is no small technical change, but a fundamental change in understanding what is and what is not a banking secret. If we do this once, how are we going to defend ourselves against other proposals that are bound to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Roman Kubíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to present here the explanatory report of the amendment that I adopted and was prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The proposed changes are related to the House press 414, which amends Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance in connection with the implementation of the Solvency II Directive. Article 5 (4) excludes from its scope an export credit insurance operation on behalf of the State or with a guarantee from the State or if the State is an insurer. This is also the content of § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) stating that other legislation may provide otherwise. In the present case, Law No. 58/1995 Coll., which governs the activities of EGAP and where it is stated in Section 4 that, unless otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the Special Insurance Act apply to the Export Insurance Corporation. This adjustment corresponded to the time before the Czech Republic joined the EU and is currently causing a number of problems in adapting EGAP to the conditions of private insurance companies operating on the insurance market, as well as to the content of the CNB's supervision over EGAP's activities. The scope of EGAP activity is defined by Law No. 58/1995 Coll. and such an activity cannot be regarded as equivalent to that of private insurance undertakings, in particular because of the State guarantee as liabilities to EGAP. Authorisation for such an activity cannot have the character of so-called. a single European passport, which would be contrary to Article 107 et seq. in the case of an activity characterised by private insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The TFEU, that is, would be illegal State aid. [[16.30 hours]] For this reason, it is necessary to define more precisely the nature of the authorisation granted by the Czech National Bank EGAP and, at the same time, to specify which provisions of the Insurance Act are not applicable to EGAP's activities, respectively. apply in the light of the specificity of such an activity. It is thus purely a national regulation that will allow for further smooth operation of EGAP, without any claims for significant capital increases under Solvency Capital Requirements in accordance with that Directive Solvency II, which seems unjustified due to the State guarantee for EGAP's liabilities. It is therefore proposed to establish the minimum amount of the primary capital of EGAP as a percentage of the Solvency Capital Requirement calculated on the basis of the standard or partial or fully internal model, with a percentage of 30 per cent, thereby ensuring sufficient amount of the available funds of EGAP for its smooth operation. The provisions relating to the minimum capital requirement are thus modified by this lower limit of primary capital, while its lower limit under Solvency II - § 79 and House printing 414 remains maintained. At the same time, the supervision of the Czech National Bank of this activity, which is in the public interest, is maintained. Therefore, it is explicitly stated that EGAP is considered to be an insurance undertaking under Section 44 of Law No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, where point (c) provides that the Czech National Bank is to supervise insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings, pension funds, pension companies and other persons operating in the field of insurance, supplementary pension savings, pension savings and supplementary supplementary pension insurance under the laws governing insurance - insurance intermediaries, pension insurance, supplementary pension savings and pension savings. This supervision is limited by the conditions that EGAP must comply with in accordance with the authorisation granted by the Czech National Bank pursuant to § 3a. I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u9	I thank Mr Kubíček. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. If there is no interest in the final words nor is there a proposal to return the law to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, then I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Even in a detailed debate, Mr Roman Kubíček is the first to be joined. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment which is deposited in the system as House document 2512. I presented the reasoned report in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u11	I thank Mr Kubíček. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is also reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u12	Just a brief comment on what Mr Kubíček has read. His amendment is much longer and extends far wider than the original government proposal. I don't think that's a very good practice. It's more like it deserves to be the new House press. I'm not suggesting anything, I'm just saying it's expanding the original proposal a lot more. It's like a second, longer bill that sticks to the first one. However, we will have time to debate this in detail in the Committee on Budgets. By being a guarantee committee, there'll be room for that. But I don't think it's a practice that we should support in the long run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-004-002.u13	I thank Mr Stanjur. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. There is no interest in the Minister's final words or the rapporteur's. That also concludes the second reading of this bill. The next item to be addressed is:
