ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-001-060.u1	60. Proposal by Members and Members of Ondřej Benešík, Olga Havlová, Pavel Kováčik, Petr Kudela, Jaroslav Lobkowicz, Marie Pěnčíková, Zdeněk Syblík, Josef Šenfeld, Dana Váhalová, Ladislav Velebný and Jiří Zemánek on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 154/2000 Coll., on breeding, breeding and registration of farm animals and amending certain related laws (the breeding law), as amended /house print 394/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 394/1. I ask for Mr Ondřej Benešík's plaintiff - instead of Mr Benešík's colleague, Mr Kudela will take that role. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I ask the House to calm down and listen to the translator in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-001-060.u2	Hello, Mr President, hello, fellow Members and fellow Members. On behalf of a group of petitioners, I present to you a motion to issue a law amending Act No. 154/2000 Coll., on breeding, breeding and registration of livestock and amending certain related laws, breeding law, as amended. For the media, I remind you that it is not legislation on breeding and breeding of dogs, but on livestock, in this case horse breeding. I believe that you will not judge this proposal by its length because it fits on one line, but as necessary its acceptance. The reason for the change is the termination of the grant title from the national subsidy programme Support to the National stud Kladruby nad Labem, state enterprise, Zemský studčín Písek and Zemský studčín Tlumačov, which has been the main source of funding for these state enterprises. The subsidy title will have to be terminated in the context of the end of the transitional period resulting from the legislation of the European Union. Instead of state-owned enterprises, for which European law would constitute unlawful public aid in the future, funding will be provided through a state contribution organisation to which the rights and obligations of these undertakings will be transferred. The subject matter of the amendment to the Act is the modification of the definition of the term entitled person in the provisions of Section 2 (1) (b). j), so that this concept also applies to state contribution organisations. Should the amendment not take place, there is a risk that the land stallions could not carry out professional activities under the breeding law. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-001-060.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask the rapporteur, to whom Mr Petr Bendl was designated, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-001-060.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister of Agriculture, fellow Members, allow me to say a few words about this material, which Members are submitting, or to the parliamentary bill that responds to the change in the legal status of studs from a state enterprise to a contribution organisation. I understand the proposal in substance, even though I think it's surviving, and I think most of you know very well that the transition to contribution organisations, i.e. the legal form of the organisations that are surviving in Europe cannot be for a long time. First of all. Secondly, the fact that Members present this is rather a demonstration of the Ministry of Agriculture's ability and leadership in the Ministry's orientation. I would expect a minister to present such a thing or at least be involved. I support the proposal to go through the second reading, but I say again, it is more like a demonstration of inconclusiveness and non-thinking about what will need to be done next, because it is obvious that we will have to switch from the contribution organisations to a different legal form, firstly, that, secondly, this is a special step that we are looking for to finance the really necessary needs in the field of breeding and in the field of operation of the state enterprise, or today's state enterprise in Písek and Kladruby, and especially in Tlumačov and Písek. I recommend this material and I am sorry that Members must submit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-001-060.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I will ask the representative of the petitioners and the rapporteur if they want the final words. It's not like that. Thank you. There has been no motion to return or refuse, so we will deal with the motion for a commandment to committees for discussion and first we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee and, in the context of the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, with effect from 1. 3. I propose that we order a bill to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. I'll ask if there's another proposal for a guarantee committee. It's not like that. We will take the vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the agricultural committee should be the guarantee committee and that this press be directed to him, please press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 18, 154, for 147, against no one, this proposal has been adopted and we have therefore ordered this press to discuss the Committee on Agriculture as a Committee on Guarantee. I will ask yet, because the Organizing Committee has not proposed ordering this press to the next committee, whether there is an interest in the commandment to another committee. It's not like that. In that case, we have exhausted this point in the first reading and I am ending the discussion of point 60. So let's continue with point number
