ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u1	18. Proposal by Members of Jan Farský, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act on the Register of Contracts and on the amendment of Act No. 137/2006 Sb., on public procurement, as amended /house print 42/ - second reading We dealt with this House press on 18 June, when we also interrupted the general debate. I ask that Mr Jan Farský and Mr Jan Chvojka, Member of the Guarantee Constitutional Committee, take the position of the rapporteur's chair. I ask about any speeches made by the appellant or the rapporteur, as appropriate. Not interested. At first reading, this proposal was directed to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Economic Committee, the Audit Committee, the rapporteurs are Mr Chvojka, the rapporteur Birke and the rapporteur Novotný, and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the rapporteur Jiří Petrů. The resolution was delivered to you as House prints 42/2 to 8. We will now continue the interrupted general debate in which the chairman of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek signed up first. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the Register of Contracts is a law that the TOP 09 and the Mayors have long advocated, of course, with some adjustments, as it is not clear to me personally why this obligation should apply to a contribution organisation that manages two or three million state resources a year and should not apply to a private person who collects billions a year. These are still the same public funds, and the public has a right to know how to handle the funds. From this point of view also -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u3	I am very sorry, Mr President. I would like to ask my colleagues to remain calm in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u4	But since I know that this amendment has already been submitted at second reading to the committee, I am just saying that it deserves its support, as business entities collect more than 50 billion annually. public budget funds, whether national or European Union, are so absurd that, in the case of a state institution or a regional or municipal institution, we insist that these contracts must be published so that we can tolerate that they will not be published when it comes to billions of subsidies for individual private individuals. That's not even a bullying, and after all, every private person has the right to refuse the grant and not take it if he doesn't want to publish the contracts. But if he takes the public funds, then he should be subject to the same obligations as the institutions that manage public funds, because their founder is the state, the region or the municipality. This is the first point I would like to point out, which I consider important, because otherwise we would have behaved very hypocritically. The amending proposal, which I now want to justify in the general debate, concerns so-called. priority chapters. Budget rules for a few chapters... [[The speaker is waiting.]] Madam Secretary... Madam Secretary, I don't have what it takes to yell you out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u5	I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask everyone to actually transfer their calls outside this meeting room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u6	Thank you very much. Budget rules exclude from the executive powers of the government in determining the budget of some chapter, where independence depends in an exceptional way. It's the Constitutional Court, it's the SAO, it's the chapter of the Chamber of Deputies, it's the chapter of the Senate, it's so-called. priority chapters. When we add it up, these are relatively small amounts, but the key is the degree of independence. I remember 2004, when I was chairman of the budget committee, the government of Vladimír Špidla reduced the budget chapter of the SAO and the Constitutional Court, submitted the draft budget to the government, and I forced the Prime Minister, and he acknowledged my arguments that the government must not do such a thing, that only the budget committee of the House can do so. The government's resolution has been revised and the government has decided otherwise. It's not nyphism, it's very important in terms of the constitutional independence of some institutions. Under the budgetary rules, we call them priority chapters. There the government must not set budget limits; there it is solely the competence of the Chamber of Deputies, which the House delegate to the Committee on Budgets when discussing the budget, and then, of course, within the framework of the approval of the budget, the House approves. I believe that this principle should also apply to the Register of Contracts. That, under certain circumstances, it could be threatened, or some information used to threaten independence, e.g. SAO or e.g. The Constitutional Court is precisely for their obligations to register contracts. These are not dramatic financial volumes, and I think that the independence of these institutions in the democratic system is worth it. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for an amendment which proposes an exemption from the Register of Treaties for these priority chapters of the state budget, i.e. for these institutions. Thank you for listening and for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u7	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President of the MP - well. [[Vice-President signals from the hall]] Another duly registered member is Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u8	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive amendment to the House press 42 tabled by colleagues Vondráček, Chvojka and Bartošek, among others. It also concerns the publication of contracts between health insurance companies and health institutions, which we have recently discussed here in connection with the discussion of so-called 'health insurance'. transparent amendments to Act No. 48/1997 Coll. We have already approved this amendment here at third reading, including the amendment that I tabled with my colleague Krákora in the Committee on Health, which deals with the publication of contracts between health establishments and health insurance companies, as well as with regard to their effectiveness, which is for this type of contract, especially for the so-called. payment amendments, a matter absolutely fundamental. In this context, I want to make it clear that there is no doubt that I and KDU-ČSL support the publication of contracts between health insurance companies and healthcare institutions. This is what I want to make clear here. However, what I see as absolutely essential is the way in which we will choose to meet the objective of transparency for contracts between healthcare institutions and health insurance companies. It should be noted that the contracts between these two entities are very specific because they directly follow up on the amount of the payments provided for by the annual payment decree. In this context, it should be noted that the payment decree does not apply on a regular basis until the last days of the calendar year. Perhaps it is shining on better times in this regard, because Colleague Hovorka has filed an amendment to Act No. 48/1997 Coll. an amendment proposing a new obligation to issue a payment order not later than the end of October of the relevant calendar year. Unfortunately, it is not guaranteed either, and the practice clearly shows that all contracts, especially annually concluded additions to contracts, would be discussed and concluded by the end of the calendar year. This is more of a wishful thinking nowadays, because negotiations around payment supplements are often dragged for months. From this point of view, I believe that the issue of the publication of contracts between health insurance companies and health institutions is more appropriate to leave in the diction of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., including the establishment of efficiency, as well as the so-called. The transparent amendment is a complex solution. On the other hand, the inclusion of contracts in the Register of Contracts Act would, in particular, be subject to significant legal uncertainty in terms of the effectiveness of contracts if they were concluded during the first calendar months or during the first months of the calendar year, which is common in practice today. I consider this a highly dangerous phenomenon. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I would like to draw up an amendment proposing the publication of contracts for health care payments between health insurance companies and health institutions to exclude from the diction of the Act on the Register of Contracts and to address it in the diction of the Public Health Insurance Act. Otherwise, we would have reached a legal conflict between the two legal standards, i.e. the draft law on the Register of Contracts and the amended Act No. 48/1997 Coll. The comprehensive amendment to the Register of Contracts only addresses the conflict in one direction when it sets out what will happen if the contract, and in this case also information on deviations from the payment decree for the calendar year in question, published first in the register, see the provisions of Section 8 para. 6 - if, in accordance with this law, a contract to be published under another law is published or information to be published under another law, the obligation to publish it or information from it under that other law is fulfilled. [[11.20 hours]] However, this paragraph does not address what will happen if the health insurance company publishes the contract under the Public Health Insurance Act in the diction of the already mentioned transparent amendments. From the point of view of the Public Health Insurance Act, this contract would become effective on the date of publication in accordance with this Act, i.e. on the health insurance website. However, from the point of view of the Act on the Register of Contracts, the contract would not take effect until the date of publication in the register concerned, see the proposed provisions of Section 6 para. 1. It should therefore be said that it is not clear from this situation when this Treaty would actually take effect. This may be considered as inadmissible interference with legal certainty. The adoption of the Act on the Register of Contracts in the context of a comprehensive amendment and in parallel the adoption of the so-called transparent amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act would result in a situation where two laws would impose a similar obligation on the same entities, i.e. health insurance companies, to publish contracts, but any legislation would require this obligation to be fulfilled differently, while the relationship between these two arrangements would not be settled. In order to remove this uncertainty, it is necessary to bring both proposals dealing with the publication of contracts into line. In view of the issue of the health environment, I consider it to be more complex and, on the other hand, easier, and thus cheaper solutions to the publication of contracts between health insurance companies and health establishments in a diction already approved by the House of Transparency amendments to the Public Health Insurance Act than to deal with them through the Act on the Register of Contracts. The amended Act on Public Health Insurance reflects significantly better the specifics of payment mechanisms in the health sector, especially in the area of the effectiveness of payment additions. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my amendment in which I will propose to exempt contracts on reimbursement and provision of health services from the application of the Act on the Register of Contracts and leave the obligation to publish these data in the diction of the amended Act on Public Health Insurance. I am deeply convinced that this will not interfere with our joint efforts to maximise transparency in the flows of public finances in all areas, including health, which is certainly our common objective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u9	I thank Mr Kaňkovský. Another duly registered member is Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already presented in the introduction, I have never questioned the legitimacy or legitimacy of this idea. However, for this legal standard, I consider it essential that this legal standard in its complexity, complexity and extent of impact, in my view, should have been put forward as a government proposal. The draft law, as it was presented in the form of a parliamentary initiative, is clearly with it - that is, I lack the results of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. A lot of colleagues have already talked about it here, about the different effects. I would also like to draw attention to the situation that may arise, and that is: the law does not even include a comprehensive amendment to measures against inactivity. In other words, if I bind the effect of the contract on publication in the register, then what happens if the contract is not published within that time limit? Of course, the party, i.e. the party to the contract, legitimately expects the registry administrator to be effective on the 30th day at the latest. And if it doesn't happen, then the state, the registry administrator, is getting late, so there won't be any effects associated with the effectiveness of the contract, which means that there will be no consumption of the contract, there will be no fulfilment. In such a case, damage may also occur due to delay, delayed efficacy. In other words, there will be a legitimate claim for damages for maladministration in the future. This is a situation that we should avoid, and a situation where we should save public funds, State funds, so that we do not impose and create such legal standards that could potentially be the source of the very actions that will be directed towards the State. I consider this to be one of the greatest shortcomings of this law. At the same time, I would like to point out a variety and a large number of amendments. Again, even a comprehensive amendment does not address all the elements that may arise, see the efficiency set out. It is also necessary to say to the various amendments that they either extend or narrow the impact of this law, which means that we lack some system approach, which is based on some rational simply analysis of the rat, where the law is to go, so that its adjustment in the application practice is appropriate. I personally take the view, and I have already mentioned it here in a factual note that I do not see any reason at all for us to establish a central register. For example, municipalities, municipalities can do these things on their official records, and they are directly responsible. This means that they, too, as participants in the legal relationship, will be able to directly influence whether they will publish within 30 days or not, and we will not be creating any bureaucratic interlinkings here again. Someone here has already said that it is happening and can occur - and none of us can rule it out completely - to situations where the registry can be blocked, the server may fall, etc. So I'm going back to that issue, that is, efficiency. These are all situations which, of course, can occur in application practice. Personally, I still have a problem with the list of the individual subjects. I have also noted the amendment to exempt individual beneficiaries of subsidies, natural persons. I don't understand much either. So once again, I ask what is the ratio of the legislator, whether it is intended to affect all recipients of public funds or all those who manage public funds, and I suspect that it was a TOP 09 amendment, or whether it is not meant to be, and whether we are going to find somewhere simply the proportionality criterion for who it is intended to reach, why, to what extent, etc. I'm pointing this out on purpose because at this point, I can't even figure out what the law is gonna look like when we approve it. If it's a coincidence vote. I don't understand, and I'm not aware of any elementary firm agreement on the final form of the law. And once again, I consider it the greatest deficiency that the bill was presented in the form in which it was. I also find it absurd that it did not even contain the definition of competence for the competent authority of the state administration, which will operate the register, including the quantification of the RIA and the impact of the financial, economic and so on. I want to say a little bit here that it's been over a year since we approved the amendment to the Constitutional Act, which now extends the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. I feel that if we were able to complete this legislative process and approve the follow-up implementing law, the extension of the SAO's scope could be the appropriate way to increase transparency and that we would not have to go after some central register adjustment. So I'd like to ask the petitioner if he could answer my questions. Personally, I find it unfortunate that such an important law has repeatedly interrupted the point, its discussion, because there is no consistency between the debate and the debate. Thank you for your attention, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u11	Thank you, Mr Stupčuk. Last so far entered into the general debate - sorry, with Mrs Černochová's point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u12	Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask whether it would be possible to interrupt the discussion of this point before the benches fill in the ministers behind me. I see the brave Minister of Education. It seems to me that if we are discussing such a fundamental law, which also played a very important role in the election competition, we have guests here at the gallery, it is completely undignified for this law to be discussed and there are empty benches behind us. I suggest a break until at least part of the bench is filled behind me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u13	I am very sorry, Madame. First, the legal condition of the presence of at least one of the ministers is met. If you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u14	I suggest we abort until the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister are here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u15	That's more like it. We will vote on Mrs Černochová's procedural proposal to the presence of the Minister of the Interior and of the Prime Minister. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in favour of interrupting this point into the present. Excuse me, I declare this vote misguided. There's a check-out request. [[The MPs are coming to the ballroom.]] I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. One condition is already met. The Minister of the Interior is present. We will therefore vote, if the Member agrees, only in the presence of the Prime Minister. That's right. I am opening the vote on the interruption of this point to the Prime Minister's presence. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 227 voting. 125 Members and Members are registered, for 23, against 82. The motion was not accepted. We will continue with the general debate to which Mr Václav Snopek is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u16	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, a brief statement on the draft law would be summarised in one sentence. This is the purpose of commendable, positive, but at the same time unthought-out, untethered, increasing administrative demands and, above all, of considerable risk. The proposal did not go through the ordinary legislative process and was not mentioned by the local authorities and some questionnaire action towards the regions could not, and it did not replace the proper preparation process. It is not possible to deny an effort by a comprehensive amendment to eliminate the most delicate shortcomings of the bill, but not only in my opinion, but also a number of lawyers do not remove numerous risks. It cannot be removed by an implementing regulation either. It used to be good practice that an implementing regulation or regulation was introduced with the draft law, and in the case of this law it would be very desirable. From the diction of the amendment, where there are many shortcomings, we know that we cannot change both the substance and the content of the law by implementing the decree. It was only through a comprehensive amendment that we learned about the significantly undervalued costs of the original cost of implementing the law. The impact study prepared by the Ministry of the Interior shows that in the case of the publication of contracts over 50 thousand. without value added tax, the costs range from 300 million. up to 1 billion. per year. We often argue about money here, and here you can see one billion. Consumption of the increase of workers employed for the publication of contracts is estimated at 8 thousand. allocated staff. Some might say that this is a fight against unemployment, but unfortunately the purpose of employment will not bring further higher values. In addition to data from the impact study of the Ministry of the Interior, there is also known shadow conversion of RIA from the workshop of the Center for Applied Economics, where publication costs range up to 1.5 billion. That's not the data from the Home Office itself. I consulted with a number of lawyers at the level of Pardubice Region. For the sake of clarity only: Within the Pardubice Region, the estimated number of published works is approximately 30 thousand. If I forget the regional authority where, according to the original conversion, this would mean an increase of three workers, but I have to give another example and it is a Pardubice Regional Hospital with approximately 11 thousand. orders and 3,000. contracts. What will result? Draining funds from medical care to administration. And the main thing that should be clear in the law is the confusion in the assessment. It is not possible to allow an individually complex assessment of the contracts to be made available and, where appropriate, what data to be depreciated. In this respect, the law must be clear. The game is fatal, and it is the validity of the treaty. Invalidity of a legal act is the worst sanctions of the law in relation to a specific legal act. It may be a tempting course but only for those who will not deal with its consequences. I'm sure the lawyers will have a lot of extra work to do, and I'd be surprised if they protested in this case of unclear law. I've even read somewhere that he can handle it. For a closer understanding, I also draw attention to the fact, and it was said here that, in addition to the proposed law, we also have to take account of paragraphs 2991 to 3005 of the new Civil Code, with which local authorities have to work, and to get the amendment of this law into the letter of the Civil Code will be quite difficult. A far better solution than the nullification of the contract would certainly be the determination of sanctions, for example, derived from the price of goods or works than the invalidity of the contract. I want to draw attention to some other facts. Publication of any personal data is highly risky. One of the decisions of the European Court of Justice C92/09 and 9309, paragraphs 58 and 59. I would like to quote: "The publication of nominal data on those beneficiaries and the exact amounts received on the website thus constitutes an intervention in their private life within the meaning of Article 7 of the Charter, given that these data become available to third parties.' In this respect, the fact that the published data relate to professional activities is irrelevant. In this respect, the European Court of Human Rights has held, in the context of the interpretation of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, that the expression of private life must not be interpreted restrictively and no fundamental reason for excluding professional activities from the concept of private life. The proposal restricting the publication of business contracts with businessmen by natural persons seems discriminatory. If they are published, they should be anonymous. Then what's the use of such disclosure? Public entrepreneurs will then be discriminated against, I mean state enterprises, and you under Section 1 of Law No. 77/1997 Coll. carry out business activities in their own name and under their own responsibility. The state's property is to be managed efficiently, economically and to develop it. This is therefore contrary to the interest of businesses, i.e. their founders or founders. This is therefore contrary to the public interest. [[11.40 hours]] The same applies, as has already been mentioned, to the General Health Insurance Company, where equality of insurance companies is violated. The comprehensive amendment in Section 3 provides for exceptions where contracts are not to be published. I ask myself why under item (i) this non-publication relates to works of copyright and art. I think it's normal contracts, on the contrary, where we should know what's going on. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Article 6 (2) of the EC Treaty is being treated ambiguously. 2 of the comprehensive amendment and it is effective regardless of publication. It is averted and mitigated injury in conjunction with an emergency. The proposal does not count on hard rescue work being included in the removal of the emergency, which is listed there, but also no less important liquidation work, i.e. the removal of the consequences. This follows from Article 3 of Law No. 293/2000 Coll., on the Integrated Rescue System, as well as from Section 2 of Act No. 240/2000 Coll. It will be very difficult to decide how to get this standard into shape to be completely digestible. It has already been said that the number of amendments is so large that they will be put to the vote, but I do not know the predictability of how this law will end. We still have a third reading, and if the amendments do not go against each other or deal with fundamental matters, it will also be necessary to submit a proposal for a second reading at the third reading or to follow the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u17	Thank you, Mr Snopek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mr President of the ODS Membership, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Gabal, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will justify the amendment which is conducted as House document No. 2369 and to which I will then formally sign up in a detailed debate. The amendment has a total of 13 points, and I would now give you a quite detailed presentation. I must say that I am based on the views of the Union of Cities and Communities, which you have received many, perhaps all, and I have tried to formulate their opinions and comments into concrete amendments. First point in the amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 the word "private" before the word "contract" shall be deleted. In addition, the words "as well as a grant contract or a refundable financial assistance" shall be deleted. The new text would then be: Through the Register of Contracts, a contract is required to be published, to which the party is... Justification: A comprehensive amendment, an amendment is given to this complex and not to the original press, provides for an obligation to publish only a private contract or a grant contract or return aid. In practice, however, problems can arise in determining when it is a private contract, respectively. whether the contract is not rather of a public nature. The fact that this is not a purely theoretical problem is evidenced by the number of case-laws on the issue of public contracts. It is therefore proposed that the obligation to publish should apply to all contracts the parties of which are referred to in Article 2 (2) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) to (n), i.e. doubts were removed, which contracts did and which they did not. If this is accepted, this will apply to all contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties referred to in Section 2 (2) of the Agreement. 1. Second paragraph of the amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the words "urban or urban districts of a territorially divided statutory town" shall be deleted; or This means a new version of this § para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) it would sound as follows: a territorially self-governing whole, including the city's part of the capital city of Prague. Simple justification: An adjustment is proposed which adapts the text of the comprehensive amendment to the legal situation in force. The urban areas and the urban districts of the territorially divided statutory city have no legal personality and therefore cannot be a contracting party. Leaving the law would conflict with the relevant provisions of the Municipalities Act, which could result in legal uncertainty about the position of urban areas and urban districts of territorially divided statutory cities, outside Prague, I note. In accordance with Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) it could be re-imported that those urban areas have legal personality and can act independently in Third paragraph of the amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (n) the word "mostly" shall be replaced by the word "full," the words "even through another legal person" shall be deleted and the comma after the word "participation" shall be replaced by the dot. So the new wording of this paragraph would be as follows: § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (n) a legal person in which the State or a territorial self-governing entity itself or with other local authorities has full ownership. Reason for this point: The criterion of majority participation chosen by the petitioner as a distinct character for the designation of a group of legal entities for which the obligation to publish contracts is to apply is problematic. It undermines constitutionally guaranteed equality for business entities, moreover, on the basis of the current ownership structure. It is therefore proposed, even on the basis of experience from Slovakia, where similar legislation applies from 2011 onwards, to establish a criterion of 100%, i.e. full ownership of the legal entity by the State or local authorities. It is also problematic that participation by another legal person is considered to be the participation of the State and the local authorities. Failure to meet this criterion will be very difficult to detect in practice, e.g. in the case of a corporation where shares or shares are owned by more than one entity, in addition, by legal entities where they are not evident at first sight by whom they are owned. Moreover, the ownership structure may change over time. It is also a risk provision for persons who enter into contractual relations with these obliged entities without being aware that they are dealing with a mandatory entity. Fourth paragraph of the amendment. In Article 3, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the words "passwords, access codes, licenses and other similar keys, serial and other similar numbers" shall be inserted after the word "calculation." This paragraph would then be new: § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) technical draft, instructions, drawings, project documentation, model, method of calculation of unit prices, model and calculation, passwords, access codes, licenses and other similar keys, serial and other similar numbers. Explanation of this point in the amendment: The required published documents may include data which are, in principle, only addressed to the Contracting Parties, and their publication could result in a threat to the assets of the debtor. An example can be given as a contract with a security agency, where there is a password included in the contract, which can be called off. False alarm. The following codes and serial numbers may be used to verify the authenticity of the software when installed or when used. The application of that exemption cannot be classified as a reduction in the transparency of the management of public funds. I think it's perfectly logical. Anyone who ever uses a license key, a password, will understand that it is not practical and appropriate to publish these data. Fifth paragraph of the amendment. In Article 3, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (e) be followed by the words "department. Article 2 is replaced by the following: the word " (b)'is inserted and the words " (f) and (h)'are inserted after the word " (e) '. Reason: It is necessary to extend the exemption to persons referred to in § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b), (f) and (h), since also the municipality, the voluntary association of municipalities or the contribution organisation of a local authority may engage in activities in which a large number of adhesion contracts are concluded with entrepreneurs which do not differ from contracts concluded with non-businesses and therefore not published. It goes for example. on the operation of municipal taps, heat plants, waste collection, etc. Sixth point of the amendment. In Article 3, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 the following point (j) is inserted: a contract of which at least one Contracting Party is a municipality which does not exercise the extended scope, a contribution organisation established by that municipality or a legal person in which such a municipality itself or with other such municipalities has majority participation. [[11.50 hours]] Reason: According to the submissions of the authors of the House press 42, the original House press, the entities referred to in § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) they deal with only 10 percent of public funds, and there are currently laws enabling them to access contracts concluded by those entities, the potential risks arising from delaying the effectiveness of the law for those entities are lower than those arising from application problems and the lack of technical and personnel readiness of those entities. These problems mostly concern small municipalities without their own or only with very limited official apparatus. It is very important, this point proposes a permanent exception for small municipalities, not a two-year delay. I remind you, I translate the legal text into an understandable language of Czech. It is a proposal for a permanent exemption for all municipalities which are not municipalities with extended scope, and logically also for contribution organisations established by these small municipalities, or legal entities where they have either themselves or with other majority or 100% ownership participation. Seventh point of the amendment. In Article 5 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 the words "electronic image" and "open and machine-readable format" shall be deleted. Article 5 (1) (a) 1 new reads: the publication of a contract through the Register of Contracts means the insertion of the textual content of the contract as well as the metadata referred to in paragraph 3 into the Register of Contracts'. The wording contained in the original proposal in this provision contradicts the requirements for the creation of legislation, as it contains undefined terms, such as: electronic image - there is no definition of what is meant by electronic image or machine-readable format, which makes it impossible, if we leave the formulation there, to provide a clear interpretation of this provision. The format of the entered data should therefore be defined by implementing legislation, not by law itself. It may also happen that for various practical reasons a request for a different data format will be made. The moment we leave it right in the law, we'll need an amendment. I know the promoter is shaking his head a little bit, but as a programmer, I'm saying that we can have a long-term debate about what an electronic image is or a machine-readable format is. We could still say which machines - for example, machine tools or traffic etc. I recommend that we really translate this into implementing legislation for practical reasons, where it can be more detailed and it can change more flexibly with regard to changing databases or the environment in which it is programmed. While most written contracts are likely to be made electronically, it is not always available to specific persons concluding the contract. This is also demonstrated by the survey carried out between members of the Union of Towns and Municipalities from last year. Although we find a similar obligation in Slovak regulation, the view to the register there suggests that it is not respected in practice. Moreover, this requirement is unique from the point of view of other legislation governing the disclosure of information in a remote way and may, in practice, create considerable difficulties for obliged entities. Thus, in the details of the reasoning, it is also in the amendment, there are references to specific legal standards that prove this claim. The arguments put forward by House Press 42 that the state of the public administration's electronicisation has reached a level where the vast majority of contracts, invoices and orders are made in electronic form are misleading because it does not lead to the conclusion that the compulsory entity would have such a document available. These are, in particular, cases of form contracts where the data are supplemented manually, contracts drawn up by the other party and supplied to the obliged entity only in paper form, etc. If a mandatory entity should comply with such a requirement in the absence of a contract in that format, it shall have no choice but to rewrite or scan the contract, take photos and convert it to the required format using the specialised software. This would, however, deny so much claimed simplicity and not increase administrative burdens, and would also require additional financial and personnel costs, and, in particular, for municipalities, this is not an entirely simple thing. In addition, in the light of the provisions of Paragraph 8 (2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 4 will be problematic to publish old contracts, for which the machine-readable form will in most cases be unsearchable, and therefore it will not be possible to meet the requirements of the law other than the above, time and labour-intensive way. There are amendments that want to publish all the treaties in the past. Then we can really have a debate on the format in which the contracts were being prepared at the time, whether it will be in T602, who remembers this text editor, or it will be in some older version of Word, or it will not be available electronically at all, and it is only in the files at those city offices simply stored for subsequent inspection, for registration and for archiving. The eighth point of my amendment. In Article 5 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (4) 'Article 2 (4) shall be replaced by 'Article 2 (4) '. Article 2 is replaced by the following: the word " (b)'and the words " (e)'are inserted after the word " (h), (f) ', and (f) and (h) respectively. It is necessary to extend the exemption to persons referred to in Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation. Article 4 (1) (a) (b), (h) and (f) since municipalities, local authorities and voluntary associations of municipalities can carry out activities on a highly competitive market, for example for those municipalities that own technical services, and without a doubt know that the waste market is very competitive and could cause difficulties for the owners of technical services or what they are called. The ninth point of my amendment is: in Section 5 paragraph 7 the words "other requirements for the publication of documents, their format, structure and method of entry into the Register of Contracts" shall be inserted after the word "Declaration"; This paragraph would then be new: "The Ministry of Regional Development sets out further requirements for the publication of documents, their format, structure and way of entering into the Register of Contracts, the way of sending the contract to the registry administrator of contracts for publication through the Register of Contracts and the method of confirming the publication of the contract through the Register of Contracts'. Because even whoever puts it there needs feedback, that the insertion turned out okay, to make sure that there was no technical or other problem. He would have had good faith without the confirmation that he had fulfilled legal obligations, and then it might prove that the operation did not go well for various reasons. The tenth point of my amendment is: in Section 6 paragraph 2 at the end of the sentence, the dot is replaced by a comma and the following shall be inserted: "or a contract which has not been published by the registry administrator as a result of the non-functionality of the Register of Contracts by the registry administrator as soon as it has been delivered." This paragraph would then be new - § 6 para. 2: "Independently on the publication through the Register of Contracts, a contract which has been concluded for the purpose of averting or mitigating the damage imminent to life, health, property or the environment is effective' - and now the new words - "or a contract which has not been published by the registry administrator as a result of the malfunction of the Register of Contracts without delay after its delivery'. It is again a response to some possible technical problem in the Register of Contracts, so that responsibility for the fact that it doesn't work does not fall on those who have contracts to publish so that the contract becomes effective. It is necessary to extend this exemption to situations where the Register of Contracts will not be operational, as it is unacceptable that the effectiveness of the contract depends on whether the publication takes place, to which the Contracting Parties do not have a 100% effect. Experience in recent years has shown that the state is unable to guarantee the 100% functionality of its systems. And now believe me, I speak from my own experience - the central vehicle register. I think that many mayors and all the communities in charge of this have enjoyed their own. Finally, we have adopted a solution that we have accepted responsibility for the Ministry of Transport and, if necessary, offset the losses incurred by the municipalities as a result of the malfunction of the system which operates and ensures the state. The eleventh point of my amendment is: in Section 7 paragraph Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the words "from the registry administrator" shall be inserted after the words "from the date on which" are inserted. The new paragraph therefore reads: § 7 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) if the person referred to in paragraph 2 (a) carries out: 1 or another Contracting Party to the correction pursuant to § 5 para. 5 which will be made public in accordance with this law within 30 days of the date on which it became aware from the registry administrator that publication is incompatible with this law, if it has been in good faith that publication is consistent with that law. It is actually a clarification that will increase legal certainty to make it clear when the "to know" deadline starts to run, so that it will be from the moment the registry administrator announces it. I rather consider it a technical change which does not change the content of the comprehensive amendment in any way. [[12.00 hours]] The 12th point of my amendment is: § 8 para. Article 3 is deleted. The subsequent paragraphs shall be numbered. The introduction of a delay in the application of the Act to municipalities which do not exercise an extended scope or to legal persons in which such a municipality itself or with other such municipalities has a majority participation is redundant due to the proposed suspension of the permanent derogation. I think it's logical. If we want to anchor a permanent exception, we don't have to put in place a delay in effectiveness, because the delay is forever. As long as there's a permanent exception. And the last point of the amendment, paragraph 13: § 8 para. the following paragraphs are deleted and the following paragraphs are amended: Justification: It is desirable not to introduce an obligation to publish old contracts even in cases where the new agreement is merely abolished. The introduction of an obligation in the case of such contracts does not make much sense, especially in relation to similar contracts, the validity of which does not end in a cancellation agreement, but, for example, the termination of time or on the basis of another legal event. The provision will be problematic in particular in a situation where it is cancelled by a typical contractual arrangement, all previous contracts will cease to be valid. Thank you for your patience. I consider the position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities very important. That is why, as citizens' democrats, we have tried to turn their comments into amendments. And I believe that you will then support them in the final vote at the third reading, and in the detailed debate, I will then formally sign up for the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u19	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue the general debate, now our colleague... No, no, no, we are still in the general debate, Mr Farskýý and then Mr Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the contributions that have been made in the general debate. I'm glad to see that from my point of view, and I hope that, from your point of view, you are committed to an important law. I will not comment on the justification of the amendments, that is, of course, on the petitioners and will decide in the third reading. But I would hate to leave some questions that have been raised to the law unanswered. I wouldn't consider it polite. Questions from Mr Klán have already been raised at the last discussion of the second reading, so I would have answered them briefly. What are the costs of operating the Register of Contracts foreseen? The estimate of how it was defined with the calculation of the individual administrative costs of all the entities to be published was estimated at 200 million. Crowns. Of course, there was also another estimate, where it was up to 4 billion, but it was based on the fact that some state institutions defined that one contract would be published for eight hours, and everyone who ever tried it and who actually used the system knew that it wasn't, and that the number was completely unrealistic. Of course, it speaks against - the question was only at cost, there was no question of benefits, because it is also necessary to ask. So I would add that every entity, every public body that concludes contracts, should, of course, keep a record of the contracts. And if he wants to do more work, he can, of course, run it next to the register of contracts. But if it works efficiently and logically and logically, his record of contracts can be transferred to the Register of Contracts and at that point, this load is basically zero, because it is already covered by work that needs to be done anyway. The second thing that could be said, of course, but it would seem only misleading to me, of course, is that the publication of the contract can also be passed on to the other body of the contract, and theoretically it does not have to cost, i.e. public institutions, nothing at all, can save on it, because for them will be published by someone else and their list, register of contracts, will be led by someone else. But that would seem unfair to me, because such an argument may not be fulfilled. That's why I'm just introducing him to illustrate how this could happen. How many countries of the European Union have established a Register of Treaties? So it is at this time Slovakia and Slovenia. Slovakia since 2011, Slovenia itself since this year. Again, I would just mention the benefits. Slovakia, since this year the public's confidence towards a public institution has been substantially increased, in such a way that Slovakia jumped up 12 seats in the Transparency International ranking, which is also evaluated by the Czech Republic. And, of course, it's not hard data that can be significantly contradicted or evaluated in any way. It's about trust. But trust in politics and public institutions today and in today's society is very important. And if this Register of Contracts can bring, in addition to saving public funds and spending effectively and increasing confidence in governance, I think that is a really meaningful thing. How is the amount of a contract written in a foreign currency identified? It identifies the value. The bill states that it is a value, which implies that it will be translated in the current course. If the contract is published in the Register of Contracts, it must subsequently be published on the basis of the Public Procurement Act, such as an accurate interpretation, need not. It is defined in the section of the comprehensive amendment, the primary is the Register of Contracts. If I transfer it, once the contract is published, then its sharing into tens, hundreds of other registers or applications, searching for information, comparison is without further work. Once entered into the system, it means it can be used anywhere in that system. How to resolve a situation where a contract or the data to be correctly determined pursuant to paragraph 1 is accidentally published. 4 excluded from publication? That, of course, is a question that can be heard and spoken. It's that you have to publish the contract today within 30 days, but before it's used. And then you have three months for possible repairs. If you publish additional information, you can, of course, black out additionally, but that's who moves in public administration, so they know that they have to operate under the law. And it's like a question of what happens if I take the freeway fast. Well, either you get caught and you get a ticket or you don't. Mistakes may occur, but the way the bill is introduced, they are solvable in this regard. That was a question to correct metadata, which answered the last question to correct metadata. Mr Kalousek and Mr Kaňkovský justified their amendments, which I respect, as did colleague Stanjura. The questions raised by Mr Stupčuk and Mr Snopek. The first reservation, which is more or less consistent, that it is not a government proposal, that it should be a government proposal. According to the Constitution, Members, a group of Members, the Senate, the Regional Council and the Government have the opportunity to present the law. Even though the law is passed by Members, in this case even 78 Members, it is a completely proper legislative process defined by the Constitution. So it is possible to attack him, but it is not based on the Constitution or the laws. Moreover, in this case, this has partly happened to the government's proposal, because the government has modified the original proposal, the original print 42, slightly in its coalition group and, at the same time, in its strategy - now I do not know exactly the name - the anti-corruption strategy put forward by Vice-President Dienstbier, so in this case it is defined as the basis on which the government will be based when adjusting the Register of Contracts. [[12.10 hours]] If the question of effectiveness has been raised that one side might actually unsure the other side, then I will just repeat what has already been said again. The contract itself may be published by both parties. That means, it's never like one side of the unpublished could keep the other one in check and somehow push her into some sort of act that she doesn't want. The possibility, or rather the replacement of the central register of contracts by its own official record was mentioned here last time. I think that would be a step that wouldn't lead to simplification and certainly wouldn't be cheaper. If I only talk about municipalities, 6250 official records, which would publish data that would have to be somehow ensured so that it could not be affected, it would not have made it easier. The Internet access system, when you place it from your office, doesn't matter if you're putting it in the contract register or if you're putting it on the official record. Moreover, you have an accurate record of how it is published in the Register of Contracts via a data box, and of course it brings a fundamental plus that is given, that when the data is in one place, it goes to work with them much more efficiently and the publication gets much more sense. The reminder was to the SAO that we should try and get there. I agree, but I dare say there is a fundamental difference. We're not gonna build a new office, we're not gonna strengthen any office, we're just gonna deal with public funds. Mr Snopek to overwhelm the regions and municipalities. We have at least one region, which is published by the Liberec Region. I asked them how much it weighs on them. Their answer was that they did it in the order of their existing workers. I have the same experience from the municipalities, including Semil, where I was in charge until last autumn. Non-performance of the contract. I think that would be extremely unfortunate. If it were to be replaced by sanctions, we would have to set up an apparatus that tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of contracts would have to control, possibly make decisions, impose sanctions, enforce. The result would be that, after the long work of many officials, many lawyers, the damage would be paid from one chapter to another, and it would be another body that we would set up and whose functionality we would probably have to doubt. Here in this case, and in the Register of Contracts it is set from the beginning so that by the fact that contracts are published, so the contracts are under public control, both from the point of view of competition, which will ensure that someone in her field does not serve services of the same quality but at a much higher price; the opposition, which, of course, will ensure that those who are in power at the time, so that in some way they do not bind and bind their surroundings financially from public funds, and also that citizens will certainly approach this, as the Slovak example shows, where approaches are in the order of hundreds of thousands. This is, therefore, on the questions raised in the general debate, for which I thank you once again for having devoted yourself to this law, and for defining the questions. Now, I would like to briefly justify two amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. The first is in the system under number 2265 and says that in § 2 para. 1 the wording that defines it as a private contract should be deleted, because I believe that it would only lead to confusion and that it would basically only be more complicated. Here I am more or less in line with Mr Stanjura's amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (n) then I will propose to delete the definition that there must be a majority of assets, because it can also be the majority of voting rights, and even there is at that moment a fundamental, decisive public body, and I think that, even in these cases, these contracts should be supervised. Under point 3, I propose that the mandatory body that publishes information in the Register of Treaties should be political parties or political movements. I do not feel that we will receive what has been promised from the current government's activities and that of transparent funding for political parties. Moreover, if this is to happen, it is to be accompanied by an official apparatus, and if we put this into this law, we can just count as one of the savings an office that will not have to be new or created to control transparency or to control the financing of political parties. In point 4, I suggest that no exception should be given for constructions outside the Czech Republic. I think that public funds are being spent there, too, and there is no reason to say that if contracts are being concluded by representative offices, they should not be visible. In paragraph 5, I propose that no exception should be given to contracts concluded in an adhesive manner, for reasons of legal certainty. The definition isn't so precise that it can't cause any problems in the future. I would like to avoid problems by abolishing this point (d) to the present point (e). Then there is an exception that concerns all companies that are traded on the stock exchange, which in the Czech case, if I correctly identified it, means one company, CEZ. I think that this paragraph could contribute to the development of the Czech exchange, because a lot of companies would probably want to enter the stock exchange, because that would avoid the Act on the Register of Contracts, but I do not think that the primary aim of this law should be to support the development of the Prague exchange, but it should be transparency. Therefore, I believe that the exception for ČEZ should not be written in this law. As far as the penultimate point is concerned, it is a proposal for effectiveness. I propose that this law be effective in its entirety within six months of its approval. I think that, as it is proposed today, the law will be effective from 1 July next year and in its sanctions, that is, sanctions for invalidity, the inefficiency of the treaty will not be effective until 1 July 2017 and can be significantly abused against this law. The result will be that the first year will be published all contracts and mandatory information that no one will mind will interfere with. They're gonna be the ones who have the stomach to say how it's actually all right, how it's all being published, the law works, and all it proves is that everyone's doing everything they're supposed to do. The moment there will be no sanctions, the essential treaties for which this law is to be adopted are simply not there, or they will be in a state in which we will not read anything out of it. [[12.20 hours]] This separate effectiveness is, I would say, the most dangerous part of the complex amendment, because it puts in a year, after which all opponents of the Register of Contracts Act and you know that there are not enough of them, they will produce an argument behind the argument that this law is useless, why it doesn't actually bring anything and why it really needs to be abolished before its sanctions come into effect. So from this point of view, I think that anyone who is serious about transparency should not proceed to the deferred effectiveness of sanctions, but should proceed to the fact that the entire effectiveness of the law will be six months after the adoption of the law. It's enough time. It is certainly sufficient time because the register of contracts itself has been on the public administration portal since 2013. It works and exists and is therefore tested for two years by putting in many dozens of entities and hundreds of thousands of contracts that enter the system. And if I look away from Czech experience and practice, I can also add Slovakia, where it took three weeks to program this register, it cost EUR 20,000 and the operation of the first years went to EUR 4,500. The second amendment that I have prepared for this law is in the system under number 2371. When I sum it up in a nutshell, it puts again in a comprehensive amendment what was removed from it, in order for orders and invoices to be published. Why these orders and invoices? Because framework agreements are being concluded, under which we will not see what flows through them. They are concluded, often they can be bypassed by the fact that, of course, the order is also concluded on very high amounts. And in both of these cases, whether orders or invoices, there's no problem just publishing what's already happening on the computers of individual public institutions. So for this reason, I also propose an extension of orders and invoices so that transparency is really complete. Thank you for your attention. I will still sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u21	Thank you. That was Mr. Farský. Mr Stupčuk now, Mr Klán will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not that I am fully satisfied with the answers of my fellow speaker, but once again I remind you that you have not dealt with this argument of the absence of measures against inactivity, which may result in the treaty not coming into effect. I consider it a fundamental mistake that the law simply does not, in this form, address this situation, which can - I say again - potentially be the source of a lot of claims for damages. In other words, I'm asking the question again. If the competent state authority does not publish it either because of a subjective error or for objective reasons within a period of 30 days, participants in a contractual relationship shall be involved in delays in performance which they have not committed. That means they can't actually consume the contract because the effects of the contract don't come into effect. And the efficiency is dependent on publication, i.e. Not since they've been doing it. I would like to know your answer to that, because in future I see, in this detail, a problem that can also be abused in many cases and where the state is potentially at risk by paying compensation for maladministration. So, once again, I call on you to respond to the situation where there is no publication within 30 days, the participants are in legitimate expectation that this is to happen, their legal certainty and legitimate expectations are violated, and in a number of cases, the contract may be of such a nature, the fulfilment that it cannot be allowed to delay for two, three or more days. And we've had a situation here in the past, and it's already been mentioned by colleagues and colleagues here, with registers blacked out, etc. etc. In other words, if I were the petitioner of this bill, I would have brought the law to an end so that there would simply be action against inactivity so that it could eliminate precisely those situations in the future when the state would be subject to possible litigation on the defendant's side. In my first speech, I forgot to ask, and I again address you, Mr proposer, through Mr President, who will judge the factual and formal accuracy of the publication. Is anybody gonna judge that? Or will the participants in the contractual relationship themselves judge this? Who's going to measure this qualitatively and quantitatively, the extent of the publication, so that the contract is effective or not? And who will judge the application of individual exceptions again? The law has some exceptions to the publication, but someone has to decide to apply that exception. And he doesn't always have to apply it in a way that fits exactly the law. So I'm asking who's going to judge these things, too. And will it be the registry administrator? And if the registry administrator becomes aware that the contract doesn't publish everything he has to publish. So they're not gonna publish it, or...? Understand me. My point is whether there's gonna be any territorial quality assessment, quantity of publication. Or whether it will automatically be tilted and then it will be called back into question when some come and warn that the contract is not published in the full extent to which it should have been, or was an improperly applied exception. Does this mean that the contract will be null and void, with all the legal consequences that it will cause, that the participants will have to return, or will they not? So I would like to know how these situations will be dealt with in terms of normal operation so that we can imagine. And then, of course, there's the question if they're going to be in a conflict situation that the competent authority will deal with any disputes. Will it be courts, will it be administrative courts, or will it be civil courts? These are questions that come to mind about what the petitioner put on the official records. Oh, my God, those official records are working today! They are fully operational, they have municipalities, municipalities equipped with an apparatus that knows exactly how to do it, what to do about it, in what application environment. They have digital official records in the vast majority today - hopefully at least - of self-government. So I can't accept your argument from some point of view of inhospitability. I think that if the law can be reasonable and clever somewhere, it is precisely that contracts would be published on official records, at least in the case of self-government. Then we don't have to build a new central register here with all the costs it'll have. I am convinced that it will employ at least one emerging department in the relevant ministry, if it is metadata that will flow from all over the Republic. And the last one just a general remark. Of course, I do not question the legitimacy of the proposal from the point of view of the fact that it is presented in the form of a parliamentary initiative. I even take the view that it is mainly the Member who has the original legislative initiative. In that sense, I say the proposal is legitimate. But in terms of the complexity of the material and in the absence of each of us Members having a comprehensive administrative apparatus capable of assessing all the application impacts, I believe that for this reason it was more appropriate for such a bill to be submitted by the government, so that all these impacts can actually be accurately assessed and measured. In this sense, I note that I consider this unfortunate already in the light of the number of amendments. The amendments are simply how and when they are different. That means everyone's, say, different, in a lot of cases going against each other. And I really don't know at the moment, I can't imagine what the final form of the law will be, on which we find consensus in the House, so that we don't actually approve something that doesn't even fill the postulate of transparency, but rather it will only complicate the normal civil relations in which participants find themselves basically every day in the operation of companies, not just municipalities, and after all the state. These are friends, colleagues, colleagues, these are my concerns. Otherwise, I say again, I do not question the legitimacy of the idea, but I think that the law, as I had the opportunity to get to know it, is not consistent in that form, and is no longer consistent at all, nor is the large sum of individual amendments. Coincidentally, it's starting to remind me as if we're preparing to pass another energy bill here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u23	Thank you, Mr Stupčuk. Now still in the general debate, Mr Klán, then Mr Vilímec, and again a colleague of Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, nice noon, colleague, colleague. Let me begin by thanking the speaker for answering my questions, although he did not answer my questions very well. That is why I have had some analysis of the countries in the European Union that have a central register of contracts. The translator here said it had Slovakia and Slovenia, but it really only has Slovakia. Indeed, according to the Parliamentary Institute, where I had the analysis drawn up, the central register of contracts is introduced, including civil sanctions, basically only in Slovakia. Now, on the grounds of a limited number of countries with a central register of contracts, it would be good to say something here too. In fact, the regulation of the publication of contracts of the organisational units of the State and other administrative offices, or of entities owned or controlled by them with their suppliers of services and goods, is only one of a number of potential tools for transparency in the use of public budgets. Western European States do not treat this instrument as a comprehensive solution, in particular because of the administrative burden on private and public persons and the long-term legal uncertainty of the Contracting Parties, which always arises when a non-public contract is sanctioned and which is unacceptable in terms of contractual freedom and the principles of civil law. It should be noted, however, that overall transparency is based much deeper in Western European countries through the overall monitoring of financial flows in the economy. Cash payments are also substantially limited. Some western European countries have interconnected tax authorities databases and databases for monitoring payments for goods and services, which serve both for tax purposes, but also allow private contracts with the public sector and entities controlled by them for the purpose of economic operation of the state. Many states also have registers of reliable suppliers or systems of central suppliers. However, the basic instrument for the efficiency of public supply, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed an effective law on public procurement, which enables the monitoring of public competitions and their results. So if we don't have a clearly functioning law on public procurement, then I find the register of contracts really toothless. Now to several possibilities of publishing a contract without a comprehensive register of contracts. The lack of legal regulation of the register of contracts generally does not prevent the organizational bodies of any State or the self-governing public bodies of contracts with private suppliers from publishing those concluded contracts. It is often based on the constitutional right of citizens to information from the authorities and the law governing this right. Gradually, in interpreting this right, the data protection authorities, the Ombudsmen for the right to information and, in turn, courts in Western Europe have the right to know where tax revenues go and that this right is at the same level or higher than the right to trade secrets. There are different projects, commitments, ethical codes and similar instruments in different states which aim to publish all contracts or contracts of certain types, both at national and regional or municipal level, even outside the qualifying public procurement regime. A number of countries, countries, regions, municipalities have different Internet databases, which is also in our terms where these contracts can be found, without this being specifically regulated by the general law and in some other way other than a violation of the right to information. In general, any government of the State may oblige its subordinates or controlled entities to include a clause in contracts that will enable the contract to be published, either in full or in certain parts or data of the contract, in particular prices. If the clause is not accepted, the contract is not concluded. The Government may then also oblige subordinates or entities controlled by it to publish contracts without being regulated in the legislation. So much for these different conditions in general. Let us now say something more about other European Union countries. As I said here, only the Slovak Republic has a central register of contracts. Bulgaria, for example, does not modify the register of contracts. The Polish Order also does not regulate the register of contracts. Portugal also does not, there it is in the Public Procurement Act, as in other states. For example, Germany and Austria, if we look at the neighbours, regulate and practice the registration and publication of contracts between administrations and other bodies at the terrestrial level, in different Länder. Neither Germany nor Austria has a national registration system for contracts. That would be from me to these various complaints that I had here during my last speech, and now to the amendments that Mr Farský presented here. I can say here that I will not raise my hand for them, because perhaps something worse would happen from that register of contracts, or there would be even more confusion than Mr Stupčuk said. He was talking about Čez, which, according to some, has been making an exception, and Mr Farský, through Mr President, wants to remove it from the bill again in some way. So I'm saying we're not gonna be against the removal. We have clearly said and declared that state enterprises must have an exception in order not to jeopardise their competitiveness on the market, whether it be CEZ, Budvar, Forests of the Czech Republic. It doesn't matter. Anyway, in our opinion, they must have an exception. There have been various analyses of what it will cost, and now we can say costs and benefits, but I rather think that it would have gone long before the law appeared here, to do so-called cost and efficiency analysis. This could have been done without a problem, the efficiency of what benefits it would have to society. But as I'm saying, if we don't have a clearly functioning law on public procurement, the register of contracts is, in my opinion, toothless. It really seems to me that we are going to be talking about this register for a very long time, because if some of the amendments that are being read in a detailed debate pass through or fail, then it really becomes something completely different, which we also have concerns about. But we won't see that until just before the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u25	I thank Mr Jan Klán. Now, Mr Vilímec - with priority rights, Mr President? I have the last two entered into the general debate. With a factual remark, I am registering Mr Gabal and then I am registering the priority right of my colleague Kalousek and Vondráček. Member Ivan Gabal with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little surprised to hear the last two performances. This House almost discussed and may still be discussing a request for the extradition of one of Prague's MPs, who is being investigated and may be tried for trying to get to the contract according to which the Prague Transport Company purchased 250 trams for 19 billion, and the Prague Mayor did not get to the contract. That's what you're defending. Do you think reading the cocaine stories about Homolka Hospital would be possible if there was an obligation to publish these contracts? Well, it wasn't. So you're defending the cocaine and the bribes. None of you performed in these corruption cases. None of you dealt with how the Transport Company refused to give the auditor contracts. However, we have a lot of comments against mechanisms that would not have occurred if they had been available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual comment by colleague Stupčuk, then he will get to his colleague Vilímca. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u28	Where there is no factual knowledge of problems, there is a demagogy. Through you, I would like to ask my colleague Gabal not to point at me. You don't do that in decent company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u29	Thank you. Mr Vilímec is now continuing, and the last one entered in the general debate is a colleague of Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u30	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also use the general debate to justify my amendment, which I will then formally sign up for in detail in the debate. But allow me to make a few more comments on the ongoing debate and even the draft of this law. The draft law on the Register of Treaties was passed by Mr Farský during the previous parliamentary term and is now the main supporter of this proposal. I don't know who else in the House. It was probably put forward with the assumption that such a proposal would allow even greater transparency, greater control over the management of public funds. Of course, not only in relation to the state, but also to the local authorities, we can demand the setting of further controls, other control institutions, in some way, that this will solve all the problems in our country. I'd just like to remind you of one fact. Recently, during January, we actually approved an amendment to the budgetary rules of territorial budgets in relation to the envisaged effectiveness of the law. The bill, or the law itself, was certainly not in such media attention as the Act on the Register of Contracts, and at that time at least those who voted in favour of this law, so they certainly voted in some notion that the amendment to the Act on territorial budgets or budgetary rules on territorial budgets would limit the corruption environment, would create greater transparency. What's the result? You can ask not only mayors, especially mayors of the smallest municipalities, but especially applicants for subsidies from territorial budgets. Although I have pushed through with Mr Zemánek the limitations of the originally proposed requirements, the administrative burden has increased enormously from the point of view of the municipalities, but above all from the point of view of the applicants. In the end, smaller communities, as I have convinced themselves, must fill out these complex applications for individual applicants, because they are simply voluntary associations, whether they are firefighters, fishermen, etc., not prepared for such administrative requirements at all. Yes, the mayors of these small municipalities need not give such support and help to these associations at all. Don't be. They may refer to the amendment to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets. But then these associations will probably disappear and with that all the positive things they create from the bottom for the citizens of one or another community. koneckonců all, the amendment to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets lays down, from 1 July this year, an obligation to publish on the official record all subsidies granted, contracts for subsidies granted above CZK 50,000. At least according to the comprehensive proposal submitted so far, it is assumed that if municipalities are obliged to publish these subsidy agreements on their official record from 1 July, they no longer have to publish contracts in the Register of Contracts, as suggested by Mr Farský. The idea that all the data will be in one place doesn't apply anyway. I fear that this law will not lead to any desired positive results. Yes, they can be satisfied, and probably if the law is passed, initiatives such as Reconstruction of the State will be met, they will check out the fulfilment of one of their requirements, no matter what the cost. And it's gonna cost a lot, that's for sure. In my opinion, in particular, in the case of small contribution organisations or voluntary associations of municipalities, such requirements are completely out of their administrative capacity. Therefore, I support the removal from this law, if it is finally voted out, of the obligations for those entities, self-governing entities that are already under considerable public control with relatively small budgets, i.e. for small municipalities or voluntary associations of municipalities. That, in my opinion, is the right way. And now to my amendment, which actually complements Mr Stanjura's amendment and is also made with the knowledge and agreement of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. It concerns the permanent removal of the obligation to publish contracts for voluntary associations of municipalities. I will provide a relatively brief explanation for this. These voluntary associations of municipalities are formed under the Municipalities Act either for the purpose of carrying out specific common services within the territory of the Member States or as an expression of the cooperation between individual municipalities within their separate scope. In many cases, it happens -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u31	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. Please, all parties to move any discussion of a subject other than the contract register to the foyer. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In many cases, one community is a member of several volumes in a particular territory. And I'm sure the mayors also know that the voluntary volumes are different sizes. We have larger voluntary unions, very small voluntary unions, which consist of only a few small municipalities. Sometimes really voluntary volumes have completely minimal, almost no administrative apparatus. Although they are financed from the member contributions of individual municipalities - sometimes it takes a crown per capita, there are a lot of such cases - but they cannot cover the personnel costs of employees. So, in many cases, it seems that one municipality, in addition to its employment obligations, provides basic administrative obligations for such a voluntary union of municipalities. Lately, the Union of Towns and Municipalities is fulfilling the project called. inter-general cooperation, which for the first time analysed more fully the results of the cooperation of municipalities. There is agreement that cooperation between municipalities should continue, that the State should facilitate such cooperation. Therefore, the proposal that contracts to which the voluntary association of municipalities is party should also be among the compulsory published documents of the Register of Contracts makes such cooperation very difficult. The management of voluntary associations of municipalities, unlike the various associations of municipalities established under the Civil Code under the Associations, is in principle already under review by statutory audit, voluntary associations of municipalities must fulfil the obligations laid down by the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, etc. They are also subject to obligations under the Free Access to Information Act. These voluntary associations of municipalities are viewed in the same way as any municipality, whereas associations of municipalities which are not in the draft law are viewed more or less only by a union which is also managed by public funds, but neither by territorial budgetary rules nor by the draft law on the Register of Contracts. Therefore, requiring these associations to carry out other obligations under the Register of Contracts Act is completely ineffective from the point of view of the extent of the public funds with which they manage these volumes, and would mean another administrative burden that many voluntary associations of municipalities could not have fulfilled at all. For these reasons, I therefore propose in my amendment that these voluntary associations of municipalities be removed from those bodies which must publish contracts in the Register of Contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u33	I thank my colleague Vilímc and I have a colleague Farský signed up, but since I no longer have another application, I ask if he wants to have the final word of the appellant - can I conclude a general debate? I can. That is how I conclude the general debate and give the final floor to the representatives of the appellants, Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u34	Thank you. Once again, thanks to all the performers who are engaged in this law. I will only allow myself to shorten my final word in the direction of unanswered questions. Regarding Mr Stupčuk's questions, inaction - if it cannot lead one party to abuse the situation on the other side and somehow try to force it into a situation in which it does not want to be. This is not possible because both parties to the contract are entitled to publish the contract without distinction, which means that no one can blackmail anyone. And I assume that both parties have an interest in concluding the contract and that is why this potential inaction and abuse are resolved. As far as mistakes are concerned, he's thinking about it now if I say it exactly in his head, § 6 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) which says that if errors are found, even years after the contract is published, so if the contract is corrected after the decision of the competent authority within 30 days in the system, it shall not be cancelled from the outset. We don't set up, as I mentioned several times, we don't set up a new supervisory authority to manage here, that register of contracts is just a registration point, there's no check-up. Control, as I said, is given to citizens. And that's it. Thank you for your attention, and if I may just enter into a detailed debate...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u35	I'm sure I'll sign you up for a detailed debate, Mr Member, but I have one priority right here in a detailed debate. But, of course, I have to give the final vote to the rapporteurs first. rapporteur Chvojka is not interested, rapporteur Birke is not interested, rapporteur Martin Novotný is not interested, rapporteur Jiří Petrů is not interested in the final word. I'll open up a detailed debate, see how much we can do. In a detailed debate, Mr Vondráček is the first with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u36	Thank you for the floor. I hope I can deal with this here. In the introduction, I would like, on behalf of my colleague Chvojka, who has also experienced the comprehensive amendment whole with me, and on behalf of my colleague Bartošek, who was in the final round, to sign up for a comprehensive amendment which is being conducted in the system under number 2240. And given that this comprehensive amendment should be the basis for further amendments, so if my knowledge is correct, then we should vote on whether this comprehensive amendment should become the basis for further amendments. Then I would like to apply to Amendment 2257, which introduces the obligation to publish all so-called live treaties in transitional provisions. And I'd just like to add a little bit to my original proposal here, because, let's just say there was an irregularity. It is not stressed that these are all contracts in written form. Therefore, I would like to say that I am loading this section in this form: "If the contract covered by the obligation to publish through the register of contracts was concluded in writing before the date of application of this law, it will publish the Czech Republic through the register of contracts within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law..." and so on. I then fully refer to the text of the amendment as it is loaded in the system. In addition, Amendment 2273, which was subsequently modified in agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, was added to the system, and I am not reporting to it now, but I am applying to Amendment 2363, which introduces that the registry administrator is the Ministry of the Interior compared to the originally mentioned Ministry of Local Development, which was mentioned in the comprehensive amendment. I do not have the Home Secretary here, but I do so in agreement with his department, which claims to do so. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u37	I thank Mr Vondráček. We will now continue the detailed debate. Mr Klán first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I have already announced in the general debate, I am signing up for my amendments in the system as House Documents 2358, 2603, 2604, 2605 and 2351. In one case, Mr Vondráček's proposed amendment is a match here, but we have agreed with him, so it is also in the system. At the same time, I will read one more amendment here, namely that in Section 3 para. point I is deleted. And it is based on Mr Snopek's speeches and comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u39	Thank you. Let me get one more thing straight. What Mr Vondráček says is a matter of complex amendment to which amendments are tabled? Then we'll have to let that vote. Because in that case, it has to be related to it so that we can have it properly clean. My colleague Farský, well, I'm sorry, I drove my colleagues into the lobby, so I'm gonna bring them back in, and I'm gonna sign you all out just in case. [[♪ It's a gong ♪]] I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In this procedural vote, we will vote on the fact that the basis for discussion is the comprehensive amendment tabled by Mr Vondráček in those figures - please repeat the House document so that we know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u40	The comprehensive amendment is under number 2240. The others I've been loading up here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u41	These are other amendments, but 2240 will be a comprehensive amendment to which other proposals will apply. We will vote in the 228 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of this being the basis for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 228 of 133 for 124, against no one. House document 2240 has become the basis for discussion and amendments to be tabled. Next is the detailed debate by Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for my amendment under House document 2372. I justified the amendment in general reading and concerns the exclusion from the obligation of the Register of Contracts, the obligation to exempt voluntary associations of municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, with his amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u44	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am allowing myself to sign up for my amendment under House number 2368. It is an amendment to the comprehensive amendment to the House of Press by 42 Radek Vondráček, Jan Chvojka and Jan Bartošek. I have made my reasons in the general debate. This amendment concerns the removal of contracts between health insurance undertakings and health establishments. There is a further justification in this House document and, on the one hand, I have mentioned it in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Now, Mr Jandák, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, very briefly. I am signing up for my amendment 2515, it is an amendment to the comprehensive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u47	I thank Mr Jandák. Mr. Ivan Adamec now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for my amendment to press 42. It is a House document 2526 and it is an amendment to a comprehensive amendment. One. In Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 4 (1) (a) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. 5, which reads: "The registry administrator shall submit to the Chamber of Deputies an annual report on the functioning of the Register of Contracts by 31 March of the following calendar year." I said the reasons here in the general debate. Let me just remind you. When we implement anti-corruption measures, we should keep an eye on how it works, whether it even meets the original assumptions of the petitioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u49	I thank Mr Adamc. I will give the floor in a detailed debate to Mr Ludvík Hovorka, and then I will interrupt the meeting for the meeting of the Organising Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for my two amendments, one under number 2352, which is listed in the system, this is on the comprehensive amendment to the Treaty Register Act, House press 42, which we have taken as the basis of the debate. I have explained this in detail in the general debate already during the last discussion of this law. Furthermore, the amendment under number 2617, which I have inserted into the system today, which is tabled as an amendment to the House of Press 42. However, I ask that, given that it has been adopted as the basis for negotiations on the draft law, the comprehensive amendment by Mr Vondráček, Chvojka and Bartošek, that this amendment of mine should also apply to this amendment. Just a brief explanation of this amendment. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following shall be inserted after Article 4 (4): 5, which reads: "If, in accordance with this law, a contract is published to be published under the Public Health Insurance Act, the obligation to publish it under the Public Health Insurance Act is fulfilled. This applies mutatis mutandis to data published as metadata under this Act. The following paragraphs shall be numbered.' Reason. In the absence of a so-called transparent amendment to the Health Insurance Act and to health insurance companies, and thus the publication of contracts between health insurance companies and health institutions by the Health Insurance Act will be governed solely by the Act on the Register of Contracts. It's because we can't anticipate whether the law will be definitively passed and will come out in the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u51	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka and interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the meeting of the Organising Committee and lunch break. We will continue at 14.30 with a detailed debate on this law. This is due to the fact that some who are enrolled in the debate are already firmly tied to other negotiations and I do not want to prevent them from filing an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u52	Dear colleagues, even though we are in a low position here, it is 14.30 hours and we should continue our negotiations. A detailed debate was interrupted before the midday break and we will now be in a detailed debate on House Press No. 42 to proceed. Just to be safe, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby so that they can eventually make it. I have Mr Kalousek, Mr Adamec and Mr Foldyna signed up for a detailed debate. Mr Kalousek is here and I ask him for a microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u53	Thank you, Madam President, I will be very brief. I will refer to the justification for my amendment from the general debate and apply to the amendment, or rather to a set of amendments, which are all in the system under the number of House document 2537. I merely recall that this is an exception to priority chapters such as the Constitutional Court or the SAO, and I think that we should leave them their dignity and trust in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u54	Thank you, too. Before I invite another one to the microphone, let me load up the apology from today's meeting. Between 14.30 and 23.59, for personal reasons, Mrs Kovářová apologises, and for today's and tomorrow's negotiations, Mrs Zelienková apologizes for health reasons. The next in line is Mr Adamec. So I do not see him here, he is entered into a detailed debate and Mr Foldyna is also signed up, which I also do not see. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. Yes, with priority rights, Mr Stanjura, then the appellant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u55	Thank you for the floor. As I said in the general debate, I will apply to my amendment, which is being conducted in the system under the number of House document No. 2369. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u56	Thank you. And now I beg the plaintiff, Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u57	I just want to sign up for the two amendments that I have tabled to the comprehensive amendments that have been taken as a basis, which are in the system under number 2265 and 2371. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u58	Thank you. And I can already see Mr. Foldyna here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u59	Thank you, Madam President, I am sorry, I stood at the door. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which has a number in the 2527 system. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u60	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Zemánek's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u61	Hello, Madam President, allow me to apply to Amendment 2354 to the above-mentioned press No. 42 - on this comprehensive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-008-018.u62	Thank you. And I ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I still have the last call for Mr Adamec, who has been entered into a detailed debate here and is not here. It was on the board. So it's done. Okay. So I am ending the detailed debate and ending the second reading of this law. We will now proceed to discuss the next point, namely:
