ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u1	73. Government bill amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, as amended, and other related laws /house print 564/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Minister Jiří Dienstbier shall state the proposal. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the aim of the proposed bill is to eliminate the current fragmentation and thus the inefficiency of the legislation on conflict of interest. That objective is to be achieved by amending and supplementing legislation in several areas. The first is the electronicisation of property returns and the introduction of a single register of notifications under the Conflict of Interest Act, which will be led by the Ministry of Justice. This should eliminate the undesirable fragmentation of current legislation and its inefficiency. It is mainly a high number of registration bodies, disunity and lack of access to information thus kept, missing input data when taking up duties, respectively. reduced possibility of effective control after taking up duties, practically zero methodological and supervisory activities, non-unified decision-making practice on offences in the field concerned and overall low enforcement of obligations under applicable legislation. An anchoring of the competence of the Ministry of Justice as the central administrative office for conflict of interest will result in a long lack of quality supervision and methodological activity. The establishment of a central register in order to address deficiencies in information, notifications made pursuant to the law and to improve the possibility of checking them as well as clarifying and uniting access to such information through their processing in an identical manner in a uniform format will give greater public control. Another substantial change is the introduction of a return obligation already at the date of the establishment of the function. This novelty is explicitly stated in the Government's programming statement and brings the possibility of monitoring the performance of the public official's duties from the moment the public official took office. [[18.30 hours]] Furthermore, it is an efficiency of the control mechanism. Improvement of the quality and validity of the output information kept by the notification registry is a prerequisite for improving this mechanism and for the retroactive increase in enforcement of the relevant obligations. The aim is to achieve a situation that allows the system to produce simple basic statistical sets, such as information on whether the public official has actually made a notification under the law or made it in time and whether such notifications are conducted in electronic form at all. A new division of persons obliged to submit a conflict of interest notification into two groups to which a different degree of accessibility is assigned to the data resulting from the notifications submitted by them. The notification of public officials pursuant to Section 2 (1) where they are so-called political functions would be published without the need to request access codes to the register. In the case of public officials pursuant to § 2 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v)) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) However, in a more comfortable way here. Another area is the tightening of sanctions for breach of the obligations laid down by law. This amendment will entail an increase in the enforcement of the obligations arising from the law through a change in the scope of sanctions and their type and an extension of sanctions following the new obligations. Another series of changes is the extension of the circuit of former officials limited in the transition from public to private sphere. It is the principle of so-called revolving doors and the adjustment of the conditions of this restriction. The requirement to extend restrictions during the transition from the public sphere to the private sector stems mainly from the international commitments of the Czech Republic within the Council of Europe and, in particular, from the recommendations of the Group of States against corruption GRECO. I would like to ask you to support the law and release it for further discussion in committees and for further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u3	I thank the Minister for his opening words. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Vlastimil Vozka to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to waste your precious time, and I note that the Minister has presented to the House the essential aspects of the proposed law in detail, the House press 564, to the House. I realise that this press is not the same in the House, and I therefore believe that it is most appropriate to transfer the debate to the level of committees. That is why I recommend both the Organizing Committee's law to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, and that is to release them until further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his introductory words. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Antonín Seďa first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although I am a long-term supporter of the conflict of interest law, I have always pointed out that, even today, the competent authorities are still able to control the consistency of the revenues and assets of the public official. After all, everyone submits tax returns, there are publicly accessible registers of both real estate, cars, aircraft, ships, but it is always about whether the law in practice is feasible. The bill brings about the positive changes that the Minister has been talking about. It includes the definition of conflicts of interest, introduces the surrender of property notifications on taking up a public function, establishes an electronic central register to simplify access to data and improve public control. This register will be in charge of the Ministry of Justice. The extension of the law's scope is also a positive factor. On the other hand, I do not think that the increase in sanctions, as proposed, will have any preventive or even deterrent effect, because I personally see any conflict of interest above all as a moral failure of a public official. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to combat corruption behaviour effectively, then we need to set up an automatic mechanism that will in time point out the possible non-compliance of taxable income with the acquired property. The problem is, for example, hidden owners, shares in owners or transfers of property to family members or so-called white horses. The financing of a number of associations, foundations or generally beneficial companies is also not transparent. In our Code of Criminal Procedure, there is no effective remorse for those who immediately report corruption and will not be prosecuted. The effective solution often used abroad is the security clearance of public officials or the ongoing obligation to inform about the acquisition of property. In the draft law, I see one problem in the fact that one body, the Ministry of Justice, will lead the register and will have the whole issue of conflict of interest in the matter, but administrative offences will continue to be discussed by the municipal authorities of the municipalities with extended scope according to the permanent residence of the public official. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u7	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Another duly applied for is the Member - sorry, with the factual remark of Mr Michal Kučera. [[Chvojka]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would briefly respond to the words of the rapporteur, Mr Vozka, who called for this amendment and, of course, not only this amendment to be discussed properly and thoroughly in the committees, because there is no time for this at the House meeting. I would quite agree with that if the practice that took place in the House's last negotiations was not exactly the opposite. I would like to say to you, Mr rapporteur, through Mr President, that these are, in particular, members of your movement who do not allow amendments to the committees and who vote against the code of amendment to the committees, that is to say, the maximum is the guarantee committee and no other, and thus prevent proper discussion in the committees proposed by other Members. And that is why you are bringing this debate here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. If this practice continues, it will only mean one thing, that it will be here to speak more and more in this place, because no one will believe you to agree to the committees we propose. You will vote against it, as it has been up to now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u9	I thank Mr Kučer for his point of view. Mr Jan Chvojka is now coming to the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u10	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I have to admit, I love these facts. Sometimes you turn yourself in properly, and then you wait an hour, which, luckily, isn't in this case. I'd like to say something that maybe my previous speakers have already said. I'm gonna say something new. I am glad that this amendment to the conflict of interest law has finally come to our agenda for the meeting, that it has been firmly included today. I am glad that this is one of the long-term expected anti-corruption measures. It is a thing that the ČSSD has had in the long term in the program, it has managed to get this thing into a coalition contract, not only in the programme statement. Of course, the fundamental changes that the amendment brings are basically three. Clearness will be increased, transparency and controlability will be increased for people who perform public functions. As Minister Dienstbier said, sanctions for infringements will be greatly increased and tightened, in my opinion, by a very important law. And of course, and that is also very important to me, and I do not know if it has been said, many administrative duties will be abolished, which today have municipalities, cities or regions. So it saves a lot of money. How is it possible that a lot of funds will be saved? Today we have 6.5 thousand. Registration bodies, registration points, which means we've got about 6,000. and something about municipalities and cities. We have regions, which means that each one region, city or municipality, this registering body operates in itself and has, of course, some spectrum of politicians or other public officials who have to make an honest statement every year. Public officials are some 34,000, and if we count it, 34,000. public officials give an honest statement, which has at least five or six pages, so it is a savings of several hundred thousand A4 paper. [[18.40 hours]] Yesterday we counted it, and those several hundred thousand A4 papers are basically a large panel house to some seventh or eighth floor. This means, therefore, that there will no longer be a need to register a declaration of honour on one of the 6.5 thousand record-keeping bodies, but in particular only one central electronic register of notifications. I think that's a very good and useful thing. It is also good that every citizen will be able to look from his computer at home or somewhere else into that one new interface where he can look at how a fellow translator said whether the person who had something to do fulfilled the matter whether he made a statement or not. A very important measure, which has been discussed for a long time, and I am glad that it is finally in the amendment, is that it must be given a solemn declaration of property on the date of commencement of the duties. It's a so-called zero point. Now, of course, you've got it circumstantial that you don't give an honest statement until you have that position, and no one knows what the property was like when you came into office. This means that you could very, very cleverly argue that the property that you may have and which is in some way contrary to what you're earning, that you acquired it before you got into that public office. And the last thing I welcome, too, is extending the ban on competition. It will also concern subsidiaries of those bodies and legal entities that we talked about. I therefore very strongly and strongly support this press and ask for it to be forwarded to committees, especially to the Committee of Constitutional Law, where we can still debate it in some way and perhaps focus on its weaker places or places that may be risky in some way. The point is that some things are not exploitable, so as not to reveal, for example, the addresses of those officials who have to make honest statements. But, of course, it's a matter of debate. It is a matter which belongs to the constitutionally-legal committee, and I am asking that this press be transferred to its very land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u11	I thank Mr Chvojka. Now with priority rights, President Laudat. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a slightly different opinion than my previous speaker. If this is the result of long-term work, how to combat corruption, conflict of interest, but it no longer surprises me when I saw the completely toothless and resigned debate now on Czech television on Sunday by Minister Dienstbier and anti-corruption fighter Transparency International. It turns out, Minister, that your opponent, to say the least, no longer has the moral right to perform the function he performs, otherwise he totally discredits the institution. Because something has happened here that is unprecedented in Europe, and you yourself rightly said that whatever Babiš does has a conflict of interest everywhere, and I totally agree with that. As far as the amendment is concerned, I don't know, but I have the impression that this is the fulfilment of the anti-corruption campaign in terms of conflict of interest. I don't think this novel is worth anything. So what it brings is that it's centered in one place, which gives some sort of insight, makes it easier to search, that's true. I don't know why justice is supposed to be administered, but isn't it the one who's in charge of the election, the validation of the mandate, etc.? I'd rather see that the administrator of the database should be the Homeland. But I don't know, I think the minister here will explain. I think the presentation was very brief. As far as the rapporteur is concerned, I consider his speech to be disastrous, because I do not agree that the petitioner, Minister Dienstbier, has said all this in an exhaustive manner, in no way. I really think the positives are there... I'm just gonna open up another problem here. When it's given, and it's supposed to be from the very beginning that everyone gives a confession to property, there's always talk of real estate. I think everyone at the beginning should admit the amount of money they have on their accounts before entering politics, and how much they have on their accounts when they're getting out of politics. Because I don't know if it's just a real estate hunt. After all, a madman buys expensive properties during the mandate. But what's important is where he got the money. And if we're here completely proven by one of the club presidents, when he told Parliament's microphone sheets that he had $20 million in his vault, it's his money now, but if he buys something for them, he's gonna get himself into huge suspicions. If he'd banished them before entering politics, it's clear he had it out of honest earnings before entering politics. So I don't know, and it never solves any conflict of interest, but money is the same as real estate. I think these properties are easier to track than just financial flows, even though there's a huge ingerence today. For another fact that you're creating a secret group of confessions there, I think you're going to narrow it down quite significantly - and if you correct me, I haven't studied what it's going to have for specific impacts - the group of people they're admitting today. As far as I understand it, the political deputy has given a confession, the non-political vice-president of the state administration will no longer give a confession. That is not the case, but I suppose, then, in the final speech, the Minister will explain exactly how it will be, if it is against the current state, who will fall out, who will not fall out of those confessions. Pretty interesting then will probably also be the lawsuits around the rotating door principle, which means no competition. There I believe that some, especially Mr Babiš, are already spinning in those revolving doors today, just smashing it, because the wording that doesn't get into those companies that he's decided on, like again, I guess I'm not quite sure if it's going to be the subject of any dispute where he can or can't join. That means those politicians who are here today, there's no way they're going back to actually often owned, owned companies, I want to see that. I welcome it, but I'm also quite interested in how this will work in practice. Of course, I take it that you have presented this, from my point of view, significantly formal law. I say, he has his positives there, but as a whole, I take it as a very formal law because this coalition has fallen into a completely unsolvable trap in Andrej Babiš's person. And if you wanted to come up with a really good conflict of interest law, it would have to be dealt with in two ways that you, Minister, also talked about. That means either Babiš would continue to successfully run business with his own self I don't know how many hundred companies and he wasn't in politics, or he would be in politics and he would give up these companies, including giving up their ownership. 'Cause I don't think formal sessions in statutory bodies are the right thing to do. So I believe that this law - I will not even propose that it be redesigned. I think that many things can be corrected in some way within the framework of the debate by means of amendments. Another matter is whether, therefore, the deadline should not be extended by 30 days. I don't know if the Minister has a problem with that or not. Thirty days to discuss the committees. So, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u13	I thank President Laudát. Mr Jan Farský is now duly registered. Sorry, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'll take the liberty of making a procedural proposal. I believe there is a general will to discuss this point. And since there are 11 minutes left until 19 o'clock, maybe it will be a minute longer, so I suggest that we discuss today and, both meritorically and formally, vote on all proposals after 19 o'clock, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES 2011, just until the present point is discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u15	This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I'll sign you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the procedural motion for us to negotiate and vote today after 19 o'clock. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 328 vote. 108 Members registered, for 72, against 10, the proposal was adopted. Mr Jan Farský is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, overall, I would like to say that it is a good thing that this law is presented that the distribution of returns in six and a half thousand registers does not really make much sense. Plus, at least in person, the paperwork is very annoying, and I'd like to welcome it if I could do it electronically. The increase in sanctions also makes sense, the extension of subjects filing assets, the return of property when entering office also. What makes little sense to me, however, is that whenever there is talk of conflict of interest in the Czech Republic, it is almost equivalent to the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Babiš. And there are moments where there is a conflict of interest, and it doesn't solve that law. If I'm specific, it's Section 3. He says that he must abstain from voting, that he must not put personal interests before the interests of the whole and the society he represents in the vote, but there is no sanctions altogether. It is nice that they must not vote on this when there is a conflict of interest, but there is no penalty that would invalidate the vote, which would allow the vote to proceed to the fact that if something is being voted on with a person who is clearly in conflict of interest, that vote is invalid. There's no such thing in the law, and paragraph 3 is the one you can't find any penalty on. Penalties shall be credited only from paragraph 4. This is the first thing that, in response to the greatest conflict of interest encountered repeatedly by the government, and according to some at each hearing, according to others at 17 of the government's negotiations, this is what happens. Yet the greatest conflict of interest is not addressed by this law. Another thing he doesn't deal with from my point of view is the business of members of the government. Although Prime Minister Babiš in the book of 13th chamber of Andrej Babiš, which was published in 2014 and is authorized and approved by him, says directly that our strength and independence is that we do not do public procurement. Once again, because for many, it must be a surprise: "Our strength and independence is that we do not do public procurement. " Well, then don't make them! Otherwise, we have evidence that by the last July of this year, companies from the Agrofert empire won 40 billion contracts. So if the Deputy Prime Minister was telling the truth in 2014, he should ban all his companies from participating in any next public contract. Otherwise, he lied in his book, or he misled all the readers. It could be one of the solutions. And I am here to report that Mr Plíšek has prepared an amendment which will regulate the business of members of the government with the state. Property when entering the function - it also looks great. We'll write down what property we have when we enter the office. But I will mention another example from the repertoire of Mr. Babiš's greatest clasher - the stork's nest. So we heard he had nothing to do with it. Then whoever saw Matrix AB saw how Mr. Babiš boasted that it was all his and that it was also his, how he invented a way to obtain subsidies that were not intended for his companies. So how will the return to property work if we see from the Deputy Prime Minister on live air that he has withheld part of his property himself? That is why I think that the debate in the committees must be long, substantial and deep. Because we have to complete this law so that where there is the greatest conflict of interest in the Czech Republic, so that in the interests of all the decent politicians of this country, this conflict of interest cannot occur and if it occurs, so that it is clearly sanctioned. Currently, this law does not foresee it and does not allow it. If we approve it in this version, which is presented, we will only produce fog. We're just gonna pretend that we've solved a conflict of interest, but the biggest conflicts of interest that the government is meeting today and every day, they wouldn't cover it at all. That is why I would like to propose that committee discussions be extended, as in previous press, to those announced 100 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u17	Thank you, Mr Farský. I'm registering his proposal for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions for a hundred days. Another duly signed up is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u18	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister. It concerns the adjustment of the place where the chancellor should make his declaration of honour. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I have a question for you, and I'd really like to, I'm sorry if you would answer it. Once again, we are adjusting a place where the chancellor of the President of the Republic would give his solemn statement, how and whether it will be 100 percent passable so that we can actually see one day that the honorable statement of the Chancellor will not lie only in the drawer. I'm sorry about one thing. There's a novel in the House that I served. We know he determines where the chancellor would make that statement of honor. It was designed for approval in the '90s, which means that if we had put it on the agenda, we could have waited for the next year's famous moment when Chancellor Mynář would have had to make his solemn statement. So I hope that you will be successful, and I ask when you estimate the effectiveness of this law, so that we can look forward to the honorable declaration of the Chancellor. Perhaps in this context, I will ask the chancellor whether it would be advisable to amend the law on the Office of the President of the Republic and the office of Chancellor, so that we do not see such matters as it is today. With that honest statement, I repeat that we all present it, no one has a problem with it, we publish that solemn statement, and the only one in this Republic who has and does not publish this obligation and does not want to publish it in essence is Chancellor Mynář. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. This is Mr. Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u20	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have been waiting for everything to go away in the debate, because this is not the first time I have been here to discuss the conflict of interest law, when great tomorrows with sad endings are promised. The results are still the same. It is still surprising that public officials appear, whether they are politicians, officials, judges, prosecutors who steal, and they will not be prevented from doing so. And it's going to happen surprisingly in the future. [[19.00 hours]] We're just putting more and more demands on the polite ones. Personally, it doesn't really matter to me, because I've been filing property returns for, like, 20 years every year, so each of them can always find what I've ever had. But I really don't know if it's the smartest thing to ask every public official to fill in his estate. If by that again... Okay. I might still get it from here. There are two hundred of us, although I wonder how long Mr. Babiš would write up such a list of assets. Or any of us. Now I don't want to put it around one person. But if that's what we really want with every deputy, every loose mayor? Unfortunately, it is merely invading a variety of so-called anti-corruption or transparent parties, which are only alive because they map, so-called mapping the activities of criminal politicians, criminal representatives, criminal representatives, and others. And all the proposals that the Minister brings here are only aimed at simplifying their practice. We'll have one central register. I have no idea why we should have one central register. Why should I be on the same register as the representative from the Upper Lower. I can no doubt be interested in potentially every citizen in this country. I really don't know why the representative of the Upper Lower. I really don't know why it's not enough for him there to be at his municipal office, and why there's gonna be a group back here that will search everyone with special electronic mechanisms to see if he's done anything wrong. If we think something's gonna get better in misdemeanor practice, then I'm saying it's not gonna get better. And if we think that a property return on the date of taking up office is gonna stop someone from stealing, then I really assure you that I'm not gonna stop either of those who stole and stole from stealing by saying that I'm giving up property returns. I'm just harassing all the good guys, chasing thieves at them, and chasing envious people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u21	I thank Mr Benda. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Government. I don't want to give your colleague Benda an introduction to the legal theory of sunshine laws. And it might be good to get to know it from Anglo-Saxon law, because it's not sanctioning. This simply increases public awareness of the circumstances of the exercise of certain public functions and thus reduces the likelihood or scope for abuse and the criminal proceedings. This also means public control is often quite more effective and preventive than the threat of prison or police investigation or investigation. That's one thing. Second thing. I might also point out to the Minister, Mr President, that he did not interpret the law in the context of all the anti-corruption plan and landscape. As was the law on the register of contracts and a number of others, because it is a gradual vector process, which, of course, causes some overall pressure against a certain type of conduct and places it outside the legitimacy of public space and public interest. Anyone who just wants to go to public space has to be prepared to share information about their assets with others. That there are people who don't follow or follow. The question of whether they are increasing or declining is entirely legitimate. Of course, this can be discussed. But the fact is, since the 1990s, it's like she's been pointing out that there's not enough public control. And that she needed more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u23	I thank Mr Gabal. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the Minister's final words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond briefly, if possible, to the course of the debate. What Mr Gabal referred to here at the end - to change the context of overall anti-corruption efforts - is, of course, that this is only one piece, and that, of course, if we want to reduce corruption, we need to take a whole series of measures. Let them be legislative and not legislative. And none of them is self-savable, of course, even this conflict of interest will solve everything. He will not remove the conflict of interest, but he should bring transparency, transparency into this area. Members of the Seďa and Chvojka have been talking about increasing sanctions. Each with a different tone. I would mention that it is not just an increase in sanctions, that in some cases it is not even an increase in principle, but there is a greater differentiation according to the type of infringement. This means that it is also possible to better assess how serious negotiations have taken place and to impose sanctions accordingly. Mr Laudát here asked why the Ministry of Justice, not for example. Homeland, with reference to internal competence in the area of electoral rules. I would point out here that only some public officials covered by the law are going through some kind of electoral process. This applies, of course, to civil servants, not only public administrations, to scientific institutions, but also to contribution organisations where competence is no longer so obvious. More resorts were taken into account. Finally, after the evaluation back, we came to the conclusion that justice is logical under the law of competence, but we have prepared it in the proposal and in the light of the change in the law of competence. Mr Laudát also mentioned some secret confessions. There are no secret confessions. There are two groups of confessions. In the case of politicians, the information is available directly, without the request of any access authority, and then for a group of non-politicians, officials, the information is also accessible, but only on the basis of obtaining access authorisation under certain conditions. And that's an adjustment where we settled a reminder from the Office for Personal Data Protection that politicians can be defended by publication, but for others it would be too strict against them. With regard to the Deputy Prime Minister, respectively. Deputy Head of the Section, Deputy Prime Minister is among those political positions, Deputy Head of the Section, he is covered, he falls into the second category. But it's both of them's duty to make announcements. I'm not going to be here to assess Mr. Babiš's conflict of interest. I'd just like to point out here that, as I said at the beginning, this doesn't solve the conflict. The conflict is supposed to be transparent. It is to be announced, and as I have also publicly said, Mr Babiš regularly conflicts of interest e.g. announces at the meeting of the Government. That doesn't mean the conflict is disappearing. Only everyone involved in the process should be clear at that moment. With regard to Mr Farský's objection that there is no penalty for § 3, I would mention here that Section 3 actually defines the personal interest with which other provisions, e.g. It is precisely at the hearing where it decides to announce a conflict of interest, where the penalty is already there following the breach of this obligation. Thus, the definition in Section 3 is further worked in determining the obligations of public officials, including sanctions. As regards Mrs Kovářová's questions to the Chancellor. The chancellor belongs there specifically. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is expressly mentioned by the Head of the Office of the President of the Republic. And among the institutions that have an obligation to report information to a newly established register, there is also the Office of the President of the Republic, which must provide information concerning persons who have an obligation to publish a notice under this Act. Why, as an amendment is being discussed in the House, this is the sovereign thing of this House. I'm not gonna comment on that. I mean, the parliamentary amendment. [[19.10 hours]] The effectiveness of this Act is proposed on 1 January 2017. So much for my idea of when the law should take effect, and even considering that, because the time was delayed before the law got to the first reading, I would have asked, as far as possible, not to extend the deadline. I do not ask for shortening, but I do not think that the law is so complex that it cannot be discussed within a normal period, because if it is to be effective on 1 January 2017, it is also necessary to remember that there must be more substantial legisvakance, given that the Ministry of Justice must award a public contract for the establishment of an electronic register, which is at least eight months from the point of view of security, so that the process can be manageable without risk and the law can actually work from 1 January 2017. On Mr Benda's objection that this is the burden of those honest officials, I would refer here to the previous speakers who spoke before him, who, on the contrary, explained why it is basically simplification for those who are already making property announcements. Because in an electronic way, when it will be unified, it will actually be more comfortable for those who have an obligation to report. The procedure will simply be simpler and, of course, it also allows public control in the single register, which is the second side of the matter. I actually took it very briefly. Given the frequency of the questions, I could talk about it here longer, but for I was asked not to drag too much into the 17th hour, so at least this way. [[That's 19 right.]] And, of course, even discussing a more consistent adjustment, as has also been said here in some comments, there will undoubtedly be room in the committees and subsequently in other readings, or in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u25	I thank the Minister for his final word. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u26	Vice-President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. With regard to the debate, or the Members' comments on the bill, I note that the House press 564, most of which have been presented constructively, or proposals, which I believe can therefore be successfully discussed in the following legislative process. That is why I have expressed the hypothesis that it is therefore possible to discuss them and release the law into further reading. This has been confirmed and the return of the law has not been proposed to anyone. An extension of the deadline to 100 days has been proposed, and that is all for my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u27	Thank you to the rapporteur. I also do not register a motion for a rebuttal or rejection of a translated proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the commandment of the motion to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. I have begun the vote on this commandment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 329 vote. Registered 116 Members and Members, for 113, against none. The motion was accepted. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or other committees to discuss? President Laudat. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u28	Given the fact that it will cover thousands of municipal politicians, it will certainly concern the regional committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u29	So Mr Laudát proposes a committee on public administration and regional development. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u30	Thank you. I think that this press, this law, should still belong to the mandate and immune committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u31	There. If no one else has a proposal, then first of all, Mr Laudát's proposal to order this bill to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I have begun the vote on this commandment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 330, registered to 116 Members of Parliament, for 72, against 30. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will address the commandments of the mandate and immunity committee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 331, registered is 116 Members, for 112, against none. The motion was accepted. The last proposal we are going to address is a proposal to extend the deadline to 100 days. Initiating vote to extend the time limit for discussion. Who's in? Sorry. [[Call off the microphone.]] I see. Sorry, sorry, I didn't notice. The Minister disagrees with the extension of the deadline? No, the Minister disagrees. I'm sorry, so we're not going to extend the deadline, it's going to be standard 60 days. I declare the vote confusing. This dealt with the first reading of this bill. We have ordered it to the constitutionally-legal committee, the Public Administration Committee and the mandate and immunity committee. I'm ending reading this bill first. With priority rights, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I was just wondering, the proposal here fell on the extension of the deadline, and somehow I didn't understand whether it was confusing or why it wasn't voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-016-073.u33	No. In the event of an extension of more than 20 days, the appellant must give his consent, which has not happened in this case. It's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Well, thank you, and I wish you a good evening, and I am interrupting this House meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue with our written interpelations. Have a good night.
