ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u1	84. Mr Jan Volný's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, as amended /German press 437/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 437/1. I now ask that the motion put forward by the appellant, Mr Jan Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my dear government, the amendment to Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, as amended. I present this amendment at three basic points of change. The main principle of the proposed regulation is to increase the rate of payments from lottery and other similar games. The rate of lotteries and other similar games will be increased by five percentage points in all sub-bases of lotteries and other similar games, namely lotteries, odds betting, casino betting, card tournament games and value betting games, other lotteries and similar games. I also propose to increase the fee for one technical equipment and the day to CZK 110, in which each of the permitted instruments and equipment is allowed, i.e. from CZK 55 per day to CZK 110. Furthermore, I propose a change in the ratio of budgetary determination of lottery levies and similar games. Thus, there will be a new partial contribution from winning lotteries, instruments and other technical equipment between municipal budgets and the state budget in proportion to 60 to 40 for the benefit of municipalities. The proposed legislation is fully compatible with the law of the European Union and respects all obligations arising from membership of the European Union for the Czech Republic in this area. For this proposal, I will propose a reduction in the time for committee discussions for 50 days. This amendment to the law is only a partial step in all that this government has committed itself to doing. You all know that next week, a big amendment to modern law is going into the legislative process, which the European Union is asking us to do on the one hand, but on the other hand, we are bound by certification rules that are complex and can be very long. Therefore, I took the liberty of proposing an amendment to this law in order to buy time, to discuss calmly by the end of the year without the need to notify the basic parameters of the lottery industry. I suppose 25 percent is a bearable increase. It is true that all categories of lotteries and gambling are not at the same economic level. I believe that odds and numbers lottery have an economy other than slot machines and other gambling. They also have other social issues and have other impacts on the whole society. I am aware of that, which is why this increase is really very mild and I think it is bearable at this time. Compared to 25 percent of the total tax increase, the fee for - we call it iron and a day. This means for one slot machine and a day in operation from 55 to 110 crowns. That is what I think is already the first step not only to collect more taxes, as we are being pushed forward, but it is also a step towards some reduction, virtually. concentration of these slot machines in already acceptable forms. This means a meaningful playroom, which will have clear rules of the game, and we won't have machines standing one at a time, two at a time, three at each restaurant, in every discotheque where our children go. [[18.20 hours]] The economy will already force the operator to choose lucrative places, concentrate these devices in one space, and make such facilities to fulfil the purpose, that is, to meet the need for people to play gambling. I believe that the need is, but in order not to harm our children, it doesn't harm the people of the lower social class who go to the restaurant for beer after work and then leave all their paychecks. I know that this amendment does not contain and cannot contain the very painful online gaming that clearly and clearly processes the great modern law that follows this novel of mine. I'm gonna go back to the tax ratio. Yes, the ratio varies from 80 to 20, to 60 to 40, but the municipalities will receive almost 300 million more after the validity of this law compared to 2013 and 2014. That means we're changing the ratio a little bit, but they're going to get more in the total volume. If we were to assume that the number of slot machines will not change after this law has been passed, and we are counting on a slight decline, it is assumed that the state budget should be raised by 2.4 billion. CZK extra, which will remain the state budget 1.1 billion. and approximately 278 miles. it will also come to the municipalities what they are getting to date, virtually. annual volume. Therefore, I beg you to support this small amendment. I think that if it is adopted, it will be a mirror for us as well as a mirror, how should the big law, which will be discussed through notification maybe six months, maybe three quarters of a year, and we will already have some feedback on how this amendment has reacted, and we will be able to create a big law in the legislative process, where appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u3	I thank Mr Volný as a draftsman, and now the rapporteur was to take the floor for first reading, Mr Ladislav Šincl, who is excused, is not present. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading, which should become Mr Jiří Zemánek. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to Mr Jiří Zemánek. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 171, 170 Members are registered, for 72, against 1. The motion was not accepted. There's a challenge to the vote. Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Parliamentary Club is reporting for the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u4	Thank you for the floor. I would like to question the vote. Obviously, I voted in favour of the rapporteur's amendment, and I object to the results, so please repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u5	There's a request for everyone to check out. I'm signing you off, then. Please sign up with your voting cards and we will first vote on Mr Roman Sklenák's objection. I am opening the vote on Mr Sklenák's objection. Who's in? [[This is the messenger. Black.]] I consider this vote to be confusing because she has yet to report, and I have overlooked the lady. Please, madam, your objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u6	I am very sorry, but given how we trained here last time and bothered my colleague, President of the KDU-ČSL Mihola club, with exactly the wording to be used, I think that the President of the ČSSD member could also repeat the wording and say it as it is right to say it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u7	There is a polite request from the Member to clarify the objection. Mr Sklenák will specify his objection. Please. [[From the men's room. Jerman received a written background.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u8	Thank you for the floor. I think my objection to the vote was clear and everyone in the room knew what was being voted on, but I see Vice-President Černochová's objection. So I repeat that I voted in favour, and I object to high school, which is why I question this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u9	Thank you, Mr Sklenák, and I am pleased to see how understanding I am, because I have understood the objection. Now that the honourable Member has presented it again and better, I am opening the vote on this objection. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 173, 110 Members are registered, for 109, against none. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote once again on the amendment of the rapporteur from Mr Ladislav Šincl to Mr Jiří Zemánek. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 174; 111 Members and Members are registered, for 109, against none. The motion was accepted. We have changed the rapporteur and the rapporteur has become Mr Jiří Zemánek, whom I am now asking to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u10	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, allow me to speak with the material in which I will represent Mr Šincl, who is on a business trip, on a business trip in Finland. Let me just add a few of the information provided by the rapporteur, Mr Volný. I would like to repeat that on 27. 3. a proposal for an amendment to Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, which under the legislative process at the level of the Chamber of Deputies is led by the number of the House press 437. The purpose of this proposal is to increase the rate of levies on lotteries and other similar games from 20 per cent to 25 per cent and to adjust the budgetary determination of this levy, which reduces the yield of municipalities and shifts a significant proportion of the revenue from technical installations operating in the territory of cities and municipalities from municipal budgets to the state budget. It is proposed to increase the rate for the fixed part of the sub-base of the levy on slot machines and other technical equipment to CZK 110 per day in which each of the permitted instruments and equipment was authorised, i.e. the rate will be doubled. This amendment to the Lottery Act under the House Press 437 therefore appears quite simple and smooth at first glance, but let me also inform you that the government discussed and assessed this bill at its meeting on 27 April 2015 and took a neutral position on it. This is mainly due to the fact that this amendment deals only partially with the fulfilment of the Government's programming declaration and unfortunately leaves other significant shortcomings of the current regulation of the gaming industry unnoticed at the same time. [[18.30 hours]] These are, in particular, the operation of illegal betting games through the Internet network, where revenue from it will no longer be taxed, and the non-compliance of the legislation in force with European Union law, as has already been mentioned here by the petitioner. As a result of this incoherence, it is necessary to see a not entirely justified disadvantage for legal operators of lotteries and other similar games. In his opinion, he also considers it not entirely convincing to analyse the impact of the proposed law on both the business environment and public budgets. In particular, this view of the government is based on the fact that these impacts are only estimated and therefore do not come from an analysis of the current market for winning instruments and other technical gaming devices, which are most sensitive to the proposed increase in the levy obligation. The Government also has doubts about the declared effects of the proposed change in the budgetary determination of the revenue from the contributions in question in favour of the State budget for the budgets of municipalities occurring in a relatively short period of time after the introduction of the distribution of these revenues between the State budget of 20 % and the budgets of the municipalities of 80 % since January 2012. The justification of the draft law does not provide a sufficient analysis of the impact of this amendment, including an assessment of the current distribution of these revenues and the reasons for its amendment. Furthermore, the Government considers that the submitted material does not indicate whether and how the use of the increased revenues of the State budget will be ensured as a result of the proposed changes to cover the social costs, where the need to spend them is linked to the so-called "state budget'. Pathological gambling, which is also justified by the proposed increase in levies from lotteries and other similar games. However, it should be noted that, despite the doubts raised above in my previous sentences, I recommend that this press be released for second reading and order it to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. Good afternoon, early evening, Madame, gentlemen, we will continue. Before I open up the general debate, I will say that there has been an apology from Mr Jiří Štětina since 18.30 for working reasons. I am opening the debate and I have five entries so far. The first is Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Jan Farský will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Volný through Mr President that his bill, which he passed at the very end of this March, will be discussed in plenary at the Chamber of Deputies at first reading after a few months. I do not understand that there are a number of proposals waiting for the first reading, which were submitted a year earlier than the proposal of my fellow Volný. It's really an extraordinary achievement, congratulations. My irony ends here, perhaps you could say positive envy, because some of my proposals have not yet been made in plenary. Of course, the explanation is simple. A bearded bill of law does not simply reach discussion simply because it is opposition proposals. In conjunction with what the government parties are up to against the opposition, i.e. abolishing the right to a recess at a club meeting, this is really an incredible cocktail. I think coalition politicians should think about accessing the opposition so that one day they don't have to drink this cocktail alone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. And now, Mr Jan Farský, Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have another amendment to the Lottery Act. This term is already the third and it was a big topic of election because it was one of the topics that was very catchy and the voters obviously heard about it. Unfortunately, not even this third attempt, namely the second coalition attempt, or let's say the second attempt from the Ministry of Finance, because we probably don't have to kid ourselves or we don't have to think here that perhaps this proposal would not be written by the Ministry of Finance, just as Mr Matěj Fichtner's proposal was written under 169 in the system, so unfortunately it doesn't do anything that sounded before the election. He doesn't keep election promises, he doesn't even fulfill the government's programming declaration. The government has made a special commitment to this, and it repeats this in its opinion on this bill that it will try to eliminate sociopathological phenomena related to gambling addiction, that it will try to protect pathological players. What is the result? Increased tax collection. This is another example of what the Ministry of Finance's lack of help and incompetence looks like in reality. The law, the big one that was referred to at the end of last year as a law that will actually be a revolution and which will bring protection to players who will reduce the staked amount, which will also enforce breaks between games, and that will give the player a chance to think about his next step is on ice. Instead, in the Lottery Act, which was presented today in the Legislative Council of the Government and will be discussed next week in other bodies, when one day it may reach the House, it is basically just about increasing the collection of taxes and budgeting where it is needed. I certainly do not want to support this bill at the moment, this amendment to the Lottery Act. And there's one crucial reason. Because if it is really the government's priority to face up to gambling, to the gambling lobby, to stand up to other players not to fall dependent on vending machines, then the government will certainly be able to pass a really good law. If it is just another fog that is supposed to cover the fact that the Ministry of Finance has not yet been able to submit this proposal, and the one that we have been able to read about in recent months does not comply at all with what is in the government's programming declaration and what was in the pre-election programmes, then this law is not supposed to be this fog and should not conceal this incompetence. That is why I propose rejecting this law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u15	Thank you, Mr Jan Farský. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Pavel Ploc will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, nice evening. I'll admit, after the last time we've had an amendment to that two-two, this seems like a pretty bad joke to me, what we got in front of us. I'd even say it's gambling. I don't think gambling with a two-two is worth anything, and I have to say a few words about it. In fact, this bill punishes those who do it in accordance with the law, and it doesn't really solve anything. And he punishes not only the operators of slot machines and games, but he punishes municipalities at the same time. Because the idea that if I raised the fees, that I would also raise more money, I don't have that in this case, and I can tell you that when the licensing conditions changed, when they could have had licenses in advance for practically free of charge and paid for the license, when the machine actually went into service, then it changed that each license had to be paid for as sharp as any license, so the number of automatas, of course, dropped rapidly. I have to go back to the way it looks in the municipalities that have been punished by this, because nothing will be extra, but there will be less. So, of course, communities have a dilemma. We've got some activists everywhere, some naive, I'd say people with naive ideas who think when they do full prohibition, they get rid of it. It's not true. I think that the municipalities today, the ones where the rational councilmen are, the sensible representatives, see it as that, in fact, the gambling rooms - there are two reasons why we treat them, I would say, quite reasonably. The first is when taxes rise, virtually. If we ban them, they'll escape into the grey zone, and this bill helps us by raising taxes more or less. And, of course, the second reason is the money that the municipalities have from the vending machines, because, more or less, the financing of sport, culture, I would say, is partly dependent on these transactions. I could say specific numbers here, but I won't. [[18.40 hours]] I was surprised by a fellow Volný talking about a meaningful game room. It's the first time I've heard that term. I don't know a playroom that's meaningful. At least not for me. I have to say, for me, playing is an incomprehensible thing, I don't get it. But there is one crucial thing I must say that has escaped the proponents of this law. It's been granted a little bit here, it's the Internet games. Stone crap, the old iron, they'll pay more. They do it legally, they do it honestly, in quotation marks, we can think of it as we want, but they just show an activity that is easy to check. Check it out, count the vending machines, figure out what's in there. Well, we'll punish them for that. We're gonna raise money for them to have meaningful gambling rooms, which I don't know what is, and what's going to go down on the arcade is going to spill into virtual reality, which means the Internet. I see that as a huge problem. Until I see one idea in practice that concerns not only the registration of games, but the players... Because we're taking this the wrong way. We regulate the arcade. And I think that when we have pathological phenomena that everyone's talking about, but the reality of statistics is a little different, so when we have this problem here, we need to regulate those players. And if they're not players, that means those who owe the state social security or have debts to the city or are recognized pathological players, they just can't play the Internet games, and they can't even enter the casino. If this doesn't work out, I don't think we'll ever find out the full reality. There's a rule here that if there's no players, there's no gambling rooms, there's no customer, there's no demand, and the game room is over. But I don't think so. And any tax increases at this point in time, I think, will mean that the gaming rooms will be poured into the gray zone and into the Internet. And in this case, no one's gonna check them out. I'm surprised to hear we're gonna try it on this one. Well, I already know the result. It's simple. They're just gonna pay for the ones who have it legally registered, tear down some of the vending machines, so what do we find out? That part of the money went somewhere else. And for the fact that municipalities have it in their territories, they have to ensure order and security that they have problems explaining to citizens that they are not supposed to go to play, so they get less money for it. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I think this bill is completely inadequate. It's a useless experiment we should avoid. It is necessary to prepare this, including European regulations, to prepare a bill on lotteries and on slot machines in such a way that starting is good enough to meet what we expect from this, that is, to avoid players who lose social benefits or their possessions, while allowing our citizens, in part, to try out their players' feelings. So I'm proposing rejection at first reading, and please don't gamble with this novel. I think it's gambling, it's not gonna bring anything, it's just gonna make things worse. We need to work on a new draft lottery law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u17	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. I'll ask a colleague. I've got two actual notes here. First, Mr Michal Kučera and then Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u18	Hello, thank you. I will only briefly respond to my previous speaker, Mr Adamec. He paused on the fact that this was a mere tax increase. Yes, this government only increases taxes, so far we have seen nothing else. However, I would like to argue with one thing, and this is the point where my colleague Adamec spoke of sunshine in quotation marks rejecting gambling in their village and they have so-called. zero tolerance. I wouldn't really question that. There is no way I am a fan of zero tolerance, but I am clearly a fan of whether the municipalities want to have automatic machines on their territory or not to have automatic machines. There are certainly municipalities in whose territories the vending machines cannot be, municipalities that are facing great crime have a number of places that are really critical or critical. On the other hand, there are municipalities that have managed to get the gaming rooms into the boundaries. In Louny we have income from lotteries over 12 million crowns a year. We consistently distribute the money beyond the budget, 50 per cent in sport, 25 per cent in culture and 25 per cent in social services, beyond the normal budget. It's only because we managed to cut down on the arcade. We only play in the evening, which means since 8:00 p.m. evening, there are no ads, there are no jackpots, the interpretations are stuck. I think we found a pretty reasonable consensus. But I understand that not all communities can do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point by Mr Herbert Pavera and then by Mr Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u20	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I will briefly respond to what has been said here. I think that the amendment is mainly here to stick to the budget of the finance minister, where money is missing, and when money is not collected as much as the Minister of Finance would like. That is why the ANO movement representative came up with a proposal for this amendment. I would like to say that the money from the lotteries that are may be received by the municipalities less than the explanatory report of Mr Volný. When the levy increases, many slot machines will be placed elsewhere. And this novel does not address the issues of clubs at all. Where do all those illegal players or even illegal gambling rooms end up? These are private clubs where neither the municipality nor the finance minister can reach. I assumed this would be dealt with in a novel. Unfortunately, that's not what's happening. As for the money that comes from lotteries to promote sport and leisure, I can give an example from villages that have less income from these lotteries. For example, in Bolatice it is about 300,000 crowns, we spend 3 million crowns on sports and clubs. Many times as much as we get from lotteries. So the idea that the community would seal up some kind of activity is not entirely based on the truth. I suppose the amendment will be rejected because it does not really address the nature of pathological phenomena in the villages. In order for the municipalities to have less than the state, the municipalities that deal with the problem most and have to deal with the pathological phenomena in the villages as quickly as possible, I believe there will be a solution that will bring relief to the families where they have such players. I will not abuse the situation because the President has turned on my measurements late, and I am done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u21	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to my colleague Ploc for getting ahead of him. I wanted to tell my colleague Kučer that banning gambling rooms on his own is the supreme law of the village. I understand that this is the supreme right of municipalities, but I'm not saying that it's a happy right if they choose 100% prohibition. Because playing always gets us into the gray zone. I want to warn you that it's much worse in that gray zone. I'm talking about the Internet gray zone. That's not where the fives are played. There's a whole other game there. I remember when I was a kid when I went to a part-time job, like Fruta, and I'm not gonna say which Fruta it was so I wouldn't reveal anything, there was a second room in the local pub where the canvas was played. There was a whole other game of money, and of course no one gave the gamble, no one checked it, no one regulated it. So I want to point out that it's for every community to consider. Because today, even the quizs weren't convicted, as it turns out, the other party has significantly more money for lawyers. I'd be very careful, then. And I think the idea of bringing more money into the state budget is very wrong. There's no proper analysis, and I think it's in the field of fantasy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u23	Thank you. Now, Mr Pavel Ploc, Mr Tomio Okamura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when preparing the Gaming Act and the Gaming Tax Act, Minister Babiš promised that 3 billion will be directed to sport as part of a higher collection of gambling taxes. extra crowns. The athletes were looking forward to the validity of the new laws because it could finally improve the conditions in Czech sport, which is long-term underfunded. However, following the postponement of the new law until 2017, the increase in support of sport is also postponed. It is therefore desirable that the increase in the collection of gambling taxes be directed to the MŠMT chapter and to promote sport. For these reasons, I propose that the press be directed to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. This committee should discuss this issue and hear the opinion and opinion of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u25	I thank Mr Pavel Ploc. Now, Mrs Černochová's factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think any of you need to suspect that as mayor of the city district of Prague 2, I would be tolerant of gambling and other games. I've been putting zero in our territory since 2007. In 2011, my colleague Farský and I were instigators of the amendment of the law so that the municipalities had that power. I think it was a breakthrough at the time. She gave the municipalities the authority to decide whether or not they wanted to. I am sorry that she does not participate in this debate, which was quite strong in the public space even in the election competition, and she is not arrogantly involved in this debate by the Minister of Finance Babiš. I therefore propose that we interrupt this point until the Minister of Finance is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u27	This is a procedural proposal, not a factual point. I'm gonna let him vote on this without a debate. I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of people in attendance has settled, I will let it be decided in the vote number 175, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point to the presence of the Minister of Finance. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 175, from 89 in favour of 25, against 54. The motion was not accepted. We continue with the debate. Mr Tomio Okamura, Vice-President Bartošek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand this yes motion because I don't know where these numbers come from. It seems to me that this proposal is normally lobbying gambling companies and lobbying gambling lobbies. The 2014 National Institute of Mental Health study clearly calculates the cost of gambling up to 16 billion. Kč. Then there is another study, it is a study of gambling in the Czech Republic, and it calculates the cost of gambling up to 30 billion. Kč. The difference is due, in particular, to what is included in the costs. Then there are other hard data, namely that revenues for public budgets and for the budgets of the regions and municipalities from these gambling are in the order of 6 to 7 billion. Kč. That means, even in the lower study, there are some 7 to 8 billion. CZK, for which citizens of the Czech Republic pay to gamble. And now here we hear the motion of the YES movement that, thanks to the 5% tax rate, some change, another 2 billion will come into the register. That's all I need is a basic multiplier to figure out that the state is still paying for it. So what kind of nonsense are you doing here, I don't get it. The numbers are very clear here, and the state continues to pay for it. So I'm just saying, frankly, this proposal seems to me like it's just a cover-up for someone who's just being misbehaved by the gambling lobby, and he's just not able to ban gambling. Furthermore, according to available studies in the Czech Republic, there are approximately 100 thousand. Pathological players. However, the number of people who are adversely affected by gambling is much higher. They are mainly family members, employers or creditors of pathological players. As a result, the studies show that a total of between 1 and 1.5 million gamblers are affected directly and indirectly. inhabitants of the Czech Republic. And this government is so horrible that it wants to make money on other people's misfortunes? That means, instead of the pathological addiction, the disease, it's basically trying to heal, so on the pathological dependence, on other people's diseases, and on human misfortunes, and it's trying to make money from it. That's a really terrible case. I must say, of course, that any standard that limits gambling in any way deserves support and is good. On the other hand, let's stop lying here that these restrictions will solve the gambling problem. Unfortunately, as with alcoholism, there is no moderated drug use in the case of addicts. The only solution is absolute abstinence. And once again, to help myself with someone else, some experts or some professional studies, you just have to ask, for example, the chief of the Bohnic Psychiatric Hospital of Karel Nešpor. He'll tell you if your bill deals with gambling, or if it's dealt with by absolute abstinence. So I'm saying again, stop doing some nonsense here. It's a lie, your bill. There's no gambling at all, you're still parasitic in human misfortune. In addition, I would like to remind you that our bill, which I co-authored, has been lying here in the House for almost a year now, introducing a total ban on slot machines and their internet equivalents. It's not about poker, of course, it's not about sports betting. And your government coalition is acting so incredibly undemocratic that it refuses to give this bill to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies almost a year later. You just refuse to put it here so that people don't hear it, so that you can't actually express yourself democratically here in the vote whether you're really against gambling or not. You're just dealing with it so, this government coalition of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, you'd rather just stick your head in the sand. Well, that would be an even better option. You just don't put it on the agenda. Instead, they say some complete nonsense, even though experts and professional studies say it's different. Even the numbers don't work. The state just keeps paying for it. Of course, whether people lose after smaller amounts or otherwise doesn't mean they won't lose at all and it won't be possible to lose the whole payout or social benefits within a few hours. I also heard an argument here when I was here trying to lobby in a good way for our bill to get on the agenda almost a year later on to a total ban on slot machines and their Internet equivalents that there would be a grey zone, some black arcade. Well, that's a ridiculous argument, isn't it? Then why is child pornography forbidden? So why is it on the Internet and is it forbidden? So the only way we're gonna let it go is by dealing with the market, or by creating some black pages, or I don't know where to go. It's not like that. We could leave a loan shark. After all, we've already put forward a proposal about usury. Your government, although it has it in its programming statement, hasn't submitted anything in a year and a half, not a single proposal about usury, not one government proposal about executors. So promises of mistakes, there's nothing going on here at all, you're not able to present anything. Of course, I see, I admit, that I see a certain effort by some plaintiffs that they want to deal with gambling, but I'm not really sure when I see these professional studies here and I see that it just doesn't play financially, nor does it play based on what real experts here say, so I'm not sure if this is really about that effort, virtually. I am beginning to be sure that this is an attempt to accommodate the gambling lobby in the sense of meeting social demand, but at the same time we continue to legitimize gambling because we actually support it. Respectfully, you're supporting him. I'm against it. The government coalition supports him. [[19.00 hours]] I'm sure it's not about trying to solve the problem. I've documented that in these studies as well as in the experts. This means not Okamura, but expert studies and experts say that the solution is only absolute abstinence. That's like saying yes, sell heroin, but only a kilo per person, or around the corner. Or somewhere in a pre-defined place where somebody shows their ID, so we know who's gonna inject themselves legally or not. That's absolute nonsense. But there's a difference between heroin or alcohol in slot machines. They don't give any pleasure. People only carry the vision of money. Unfortunately, the vision is futile because, of course, in the long run, you can never win in a fight with a vending machine. And once again, the only solution that we have proposed here, and we, for the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, as the only ones here in the House, have been proposing, and the law has been here for a year, a total ban on slot machines and their internet equivalents. This law, as I said, has been here for almost a year and the government coalition refuses to discuss it and refuses to vote on it. I think that the overwhelming majority of citizens, at least our constituents, want a total ban. And you're still discussing whether to ban less or more, or here I hear some pseudo-torn opinions about how municipalities can't cope. I mean, we could do this right now. We can ban it, and it's settled. So summarized and underlined, I will support this amendment for myself, because for any indication at least that something is tightening up at gambling, I'm just glad. It's a minimal and completely unsystemic shift, but I'm just not going to politicize, like the government coalition here is showing that it's rejecting good proposals, and they've been executors, weird over the years, paying VAT after paying the invoice I suggested here last year, how it would relieve businessmen, not some introduction of even more restrictive measures... You turned everything down. You didn't design anything yourself. But that means, once again, that the aim of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, is a total ban on slot machines, as well as on videolotery terminals, that is what our bill of law is about, and their Internet equivalents. And I hope that this government coalition will finally stop blocking my bill and finally release it for normal discussion in the House and start acting really democratically so that we can vote on it, and not some of these pseudo-proposals, which in fact do not solve anything at all and only parasite it on human misfortunes, on which, on the basis of your proposal and your practice, only in billions of crowns, citizens of the Czech Republic are paying out of their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u29	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur. And now, Mrs. Černochová. With priority rights or a factual remark? With priority rights. [[Member Černochová: But I can also fit in factual terms.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Since the members of the government coalition have not supported my well-intentioned proposal to interrupt this point, so that we may hear from the Minister of Finance Babiš's mouth the answers to the questions and to the things that are going on here, I really would like to ask a whole series of questions right now, and I do not have the opportunity to... It's not about our evil will that we wouldn't want to, at least I'm speaking for myself, putting up a fight against gambling... [[Minister Babiš is entering the hall.]] Thank you for coming to the conclusion of this meeting, but he was supposed to be sitting here all the time, because I'm hardly going to repeat to him the questions that have been going on here for the whole three-quarter-hour debate. For this reason, I propose a procedural proposal to return the bill to the applicant for completion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u31	Yes. I'm registering a motion to return. Now Vice-President Bartošek. Sorry, Mr Vice-President, just a point of order from Mr. Volný. And okay. In that case, Mr Bartošek. The President of the TOP 09 Club, with priority rights, is then Mr Volný and his colleague the President of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I would also like to comment on this issue, because most of my professional life I have actually dealt with the area of addiction and their treatment. And here, through you, Mr President, I would recommend to President Okamur that he complete his education and not throw simple phrases here, because the area of addiction is not really about summing it up in two sentences and saying that the aim of gambling is merely to make money. That's an addiction like any other with a full experience of addiction. I would ask not only you, but everyone else to stick to this matter here, because it is a thing that affects many families, it is painful for them, for many people it means the destruction of personal life. I don't recommend simplifying the addiction area too much to solve this one-two-three, and we're done. Anyway, I'd like to return to this proposal. I would like to say two things, Mr Volný, once again through the President. I find it very strange and personally fear that we will have a precedent here for changing the laws of this country by a parliamentary initiative. It is a matter where taxes should be changed on the basis of government, government resolution and government will. Because at the moment, if we take this step, that every Member can propose who, how much and how much they tax, I fear that it will not benefit the tax system, and I think that the issue of taxes and, above all, the administration and the determination of the amount of taxes is primarily a matter of government. Now let me say with a certain exaggeration and a certain humor that the law may come from this or is based on the fact that you are part of the gambling lobby. If you are following developments in the area of what is going on around us, if you have followed the yield that the European Court of Justice has made in connection with Hungary, where Hungary has enormously increased taxes, it has been rejected by the decision of this European Court of Justice that this cannot be done. What is here as a great risk, what I say for myself, and it is my opinion that we expose the Czech Republic that the great representatives of gambling companies will drive us into arbitration before the European Court of Justice because there has been a severe increase in the tax burden. That's the risk I see for myself here. And ultimately, because he said so in Hungary, this point really threatens to lose the Czech Republic as well. And then it won't be you who will pay the money, but it will be the Czech Republic. And that's my concern. And another thing I'm sorry about professionally. You weren't even supposed to protect the Czech Republic for ambition, because the European Commission, the European Union, is leading infringement towards us. If there was at least an effort to straighten out these conditions, make from 1. 1. 2016 The Czech Republic has been linked to these problems. But here, only and only the area of addiction is addressed as a question of taxation and money, to strengthen the budget, which I understand. But really addiction is not a question of gambling taxation, but it is a question of quite specific and clear steps that will eliminate social pathology in the field of pathological gambling. That's the first thing. And the other thing. If only you had the ambition to protect the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u33	Thank you to Vice-President Jan Bartošek. Mr Jan Volný and then duly signed in by Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u34	Thank you. I just really wanted to be with my colleague, Černochová. I am, of course, prepared to answer those questions within the framework of the proper log-in or the final word. So I'm going to use the actual note now. I don't blame my colleague Bartošek. I understand. It's not quite usual. But he knows how my parliamentary proposal came about. We both know it's not an all-time problem, but it's followed by a big law that should solve it. I also do not think that this is some fundamental and decisive and brutal tax increase, as was in Hungary. It's really - I don't want to say symbolic, but it's not that important. That is why I do not think, and also by your means, I will reply to my colleague Adamc that this increase should drive gambling into the grey zone. I think it's also nonsense, he's partly in the gray zone with 20 percent of the taxes. [[19.10 hours]] And in advance, I'll explain the word "meaningful game room." This is, please, meant that there are pubs at the moment, discotheques, and they are meant to be entertained, to go there for a beer, to go there to eat, and to blink their vending machines. My law should help a little - but the big law clearly leads to the fact that gambling rooms will have their gaming business, the gaming rooms, and they will have the refreshments they will have, beer. That means people who want to play gambling and a vending machine, get on the bus, move ten stations, get out there and go to the arcade, have a beer. But they're not gonna go next door to the pub, they're gonna have five beers, and they're gonna drink the rest of the paycheck. That will regulate the number of players you're calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Velebný, with a point of fact, and Mr Kučera, also with a point of fact. Then, as I said, with priority rights Miroslav Kalousek, if there are no further factual remarks, and Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the programme statement, the government has assumed that it will increase gambling taxes and prevent tax evasion from the operation of illegal lotteries and games on the Internet, including the ban on slot machines or the reduction of the number of machines. While higher gambling taxation will be achieved by the proposed proposal, the second, perhaps more important part of the Ministry of Finance is postponed for 2017. Therefore, I do not understand the logic that delaying the adoption of the Gaming Act prolongs tax holidays for illegal operators. It's a message that says, you who pay taxes, pay more, and you who don't pay anything today, so don't pay anything. By adopting this amendment, illegal operators are likely to be strengthened and the competitive position of authorised lottery operators will also deteriorate. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the task that the Ministry of Finance has received should be carried out, and that is to prepare an amendment to the Lottery Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u37	I thank Mr Velebný for his time. Mr Michal Kučera's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would only react briefly to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Volný, who told us here that the novel will then be addressed where the players will play, where the games will be and where they will not be. First of all, I didn't find it there, and second of all, it's possible now. Today, the community can already adjust this by a generally binding decree. He can tell whether or not the game room will be and where it will be. I would really like to leave this to the municipalities to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u39	I thank Mr Kučer. One more point in fact, Mrs Marta Semelová and Mrs Volný. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u40	Thank you. I'd like to respond to the last performance. We have also welcomed the fact that we can decide whether there will be zero tolerance or not. I am a fan of all the mayors who have agreed to zero tolerance, but the truth is that different municipalities or in our town parts respond differently to this matter. There are mayors who have agreed to zero tolerance, as I said before, there are others who, on the contrary, have increased the number of slot machines, the number of gambling rooms, because it has been adopted in the past in Prague such a decree where money is distributed according to which city section has more slots, more gambling rooms, longer operation, so it gets more money. This is totally demotivating for mayors who want to limit gambling or who want zero tolerance. In this context, I wanted to say that, of course, the bill that we are discussing does not deal systematically, conceptually with the whole issue, and I would like to call on the government in this context to present the amendment that it has promised urgently, but not in the downside, when we are also witnessing in various debates, the discussion that all of this suddenly fell out, because if we really want to address the problem, then the government must not be subject to the various lobbyist pressures of the gambling industry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u41	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u42	I really will only respond to my previous speakers. On the one hand, I would like to explain that, of course, the municipalities have their authority and they will. I was one of the first mayors eight years ago when I drove the slot machines out of the village. Then the Treasury cleared the lottery terminals and I was screwed again. I was also at Mrs Jílková's and Mr Nešpor and I discussed this with the Ministry of Finance. And on that note about the other big law. She's not a novel, it's a brand new law, and I briefly said in my opening speech what contours she'll have that she'll be fighting online gambling, that she'll have cards for players where she'll be able to sign up for players who can stop, they'll be able to shut down if they have problematic financial backgrounds. That means this new law contains absolutely everything. Deputy Minister Závodský was on the Committee on Budgets, he was on the subcommittee on lotteries, I believe he was also speaking to his colleagues from the People's Party about this law. It's a very modern and new law. It's not the government's fault, it's not the Treasury's fault that the horizon just can't be fulfilled by 31. 12. 2015. It is a really complex notification process where every operator in the Czech Republic can attack it through a state in Europe and can extend it again by six months. Therefore, it is not possible anywhere to see when this big law will be approved due to the notification. That's why this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u43	Thank you. Now Mr Jan Farský's factual remark, then not yet electronic, but from Mr Adamec's position. Then perhaps it will come with a priority right, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u44	Thank you. I'd just like to remind you of a few numbers. This government has been in power for a year and a half. If she really wanted not only to collect more taxes on gambling, which in itself is debatable, but to help eliminate pathological phenomena, I would have expected that the law had already been passed, and this could have been around his notification. Of course, the fact that it is not presented to this day only postpones its future approval. And that's the funny thing. And just one more comment about the numbers. Since the effectiveness of Act 300/2011, which was the amendment which enabled municipalities to limit video lottery terminals in their municipalities, so by the end of the previous government or the pre-past Nečas government, 10,500 videolotery terminals were abolished. During Sobotkův's reign, and it's about the same length of time, 4,500 videolotery terminals have been cancelled. This is only how there is a massive fight against gambling verbally, but really, as in many other areas, whether it is the Public Procurement Act or the administration of the budget, the situation is completely opposite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u45	Thank you, Mr Farský. Mr Ivan Adamec is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Zero tolerance means zero revenue. It needs to be realized, that's just the way it is. But I was gonna say one thing. We're talking about the pathology players here, but I'd like to see the statistics on pathology players. I'm saying this because I think the bigger problem is the players who lose social security because they're bored and have nothing to do with, as the people say. [[19.20 hours]] So I see the problem a little differently set because I don't have one pathological player from my own experience in 30 thousand city, but definitely a recipient of social benefits who sometimes goes to play when he gets the benefits, which would count about considerably more. And about this bill. I think he's making the situation worse, not improving it. I'd really rather wait. And I'm not lobbying for anyone, because on the contrary, I think I have a little suspicion, I don't want to say that this is lobbying for the Internet. It's the only way I see it. So I personally think it's appropriate to reject this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u47	Thank you. There will still be a factual remark from Mr Brázdil. To calm the situation down, to get rid of factual remarks, I'll read one apology. He apologizes from today's meeting from 18.30 because of illness to 23.45 Kristýna Zelienková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u48	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, how much does human life cost? Human life consists of: a little protein, trace elements, some calcium, etc. Guess that's not how a man's life is rated. Twenty-three years in an air ambulance, I save people's lives. I'm terribly sorry that there's a man among them who's taking his own life because he threw the money in. And they're gonna take on the whole family, the survivors, etc. I wouldn't want to look at this problem from the position of taxes, money, but from the human factor. Whatever leads to fewer gambling addicts, I'm gonna be so happy to raise my hand for it. No, we can't solve addiction, not alcohol, not vending machines. But we can do everything we can to keep those people, the unfortunate, the dead, as little as possible. And personally, I don't give a damn if it brings more or less to the state. I raise my hand for what will help these people to stay among us and enjoy others' joys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u49	I thank Mr Brázdil. Mr Leo Luzar's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have room for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, what bothers me about this bill is one thing. In my opinion, it goes against the spirit of what troubles this society. This company gradually perceived the slot machines and somehow worked. What happened, and historically, is that the gambling halls began to develop. It's not about slot machines anymore. It's the arcade, it's the unimocelles, where somebody puts ten slot machines in, they go 24/7 and they crap on these people, and they pull the money out of them. This isn't about someone having two or three vending machines in a pub making extra cash for their regular sales. On the contrary, this law says: We don't want the pubs, we don't want the slot machines, we want specialized games that will somehow... I consider it the fundamental ideal error of this amendment as such or of this law. That it goes against the idea of regulating slot machines. We just have to turn these slot machines into secondary business, not the initial one, 'cause then there's gonna be a total ban on everything. This is what we have tried in the village, when we tried to regulate the slot machines by the streets, but we are opposed to the huge business behind which are five six large conglomerates, which are owned and sold and operated as the network. And when we wanted to limit this area to just some of the streets, the people who were touched, and they said, "No, you're interested in it, we're going to go against you, we're going to go to court, that you've done business damage to us, and try to prove that you're not involved in anything that you're just allowing and not allowing somewhere. The problem within the council was so great that we eventually resorted to the total ban on slot machines in the entire territory of the village. And there's no other solution here. This law that comes here only solves one small part of this problem, and that of the pubs giving it away and returning somewhere to the arcade. It was even said here that he would take the bus somewhere etc. I think--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u51	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u52	Thank you. Returns the whole situation maybe 20 years back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u53	A real comment from my colleagueVolný Bartošek, and then maybe the application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I can't not respond to a colleague. I certainly appreciate his opinion, but I must underline it, and I consulted Mr. Nešpor just years ago, it is the most harmful thing in the pubs. If somebody wants to gamble, they'll go to the basement when it goes over with different sanctions, and we'll get it to the gray zone, or they'll just go anywhere. The worst thing is when someone goes out for a beer, it's blinking all day, or the young people at the disco, and then they start throwing money in there unwittingly. Anyone who wants to gamble and has to sit on a bus that I may not have put on the right track here, and move five stations to play the gamble, so he's gonna go for it anyway. The worst is where they go for beer, where they go to have fun, where they go to eat gas, and there they lose money. That's Mr. Nešpor's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u55	Thank you, Mr Volný. Now the factual point of Vice-President Bartošek and then the factual point of Mr Farský. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u56	We're still discussing the proposal to get back to it. The gaming industry, as we know it. Classic boxes at gas stations, etc. But this redistribution of money towards municipalities is also wrong, because the gaming industry is developing in a way that is currently 20 per cent online and over a period of five years it moved in about 50 per cent on online bets. This means that we will have money for city budgets based on the permission of winning instruments, it is wrong, because in the future it will be played online on tablets, on phones and there will be a failure of money to municipalities. I guess that's what you need to say. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u57	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u58	Thank you for the floor. I'd just follow up on the words of the translator who put it here. He perfectly justified the need to adopt a government bill on lotteries. But his reasoning did not suit the bill that we are here today to approve, and that is why I propose rejecting it. Because there's a fog coming out that this government, the Chamber of Deputies, will solve the lotteries. And I'm afraid it will end with this bill, because taxes will be collected, and what further interest will there be in suppressing gambling and helping gamblers who already have it as an addiction? For this reason, I propose rejection, because I expect the government to proceed with what it has promised and to submit a real bill which will also respond to what both the petitioner and Vice-President have put forward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u59	Thank you. One more factual point, this time by Mr Matěj Fichtner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to point out to all gambling fighters that we have two amendments to the Lottery Act. One is from Mr Volný, who deals with taxation, I am of course rooting for it, then there is a second amendment, virtually. in the order of the first to address technical issues that address the limitations of videoloteries terminals. Let's approve both of them, and we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u61	Thank you, in particular, for keeping time on the point of fact. We can get to applications in a normal debate. Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. If no one else, it will be MP Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would strongly recommend that the issues and arguments put forward by Vice-President Bartošek in the discussion should not be brought together. I'm always nervous when the parliamentary initiative changes any taxes. That's all there is to the opposition. When government MPs do this, I always see an effort to bypass the RIA, to circumvent responsibility for quantifying the real impact on public budgets and a number of other things that the government bill must have, including proper commentary proceedings. Here is simply the fundamental question, why this very simple amendment, purely parametric, is presented by a Member of the Government's initiative, why it is not put forward by the government, is quite obvious. It is simply because the Ministry of Finance seems to want to avoid the appropriate quantification and responsibility for quantifying the effects of this amendment. It is quite appropriate here to ask what the Ministry of Finance is doing. [[19.30 hours]] We're not in a situation where the government rules for less than a year. The government has been ruling for 16 or 17 months, and gambling was one of its major priorities. And I've often heard the Minister of Finance say, as convincingly as he said, "Twenty years of taxes haven't been collected here, and I'm finally going to collect them," so he said, "twenty years no one's done anything with gambling here, and I'm finally fighting gambling." Well, how does he fight gambling? By presenting a simple, primitive parametric amendment after a year and a half? After all, Mr Brázdil said that he was not interested in money, that he would raise his hand to restrict people's access to machines. Well, then, Mr President, you cannot vote in favour of this proposal, because there is a simple three-member figured out by a higher collection from gambling, which corresponds exactly to the higher taxation. That means the proposal doesn't assume that there's going to be less betting. On the contrary, it assumes that it will be betting exactly the same way and more will be collected from taxes - which I fear cannot be true, because a partial leak into the grey economy can be assumed there. But what Mr Brázdil wishes he cannot vote in favour of this is not the content of this proposal. That's what the Treasury promised, and it's not here. It's the Treasury, which is thrilled that after 20 years, it's finally the first to fight gambling. Let's see how. Mr Farský said the figures according to the individual legislation, I dare say it according to the competence of the various ministers since 2010. So the Minister Kalousek canceled, and now, please, I'm giving the Ministry of Finance numbers again, I'm basically never quoting any other numbers, the Minister doesn't like it, but I believe him. It's just the Treasury numbers. For Minister Kalousek, 14,200 video-lotery terminals were cancelled. From about 62,700 I went to 48,500. Nothing was cancelled for Minister Fischer during the official reign of Jiří Rusnok. The 48,500 remained at 48,500 during that time. And for Minister Babiš, to be fair, 4,500 have been cancelled. Of the 48,500 he inherited from me and after Fischer, he managed to take it down by 4,500. Once again, for Kalousek 14,200, for Fischer nothing, for Babiš 4,500. já was the first finance minister to enforce gambling tax after 20 years. That was more or less a revolution. Until then, gambling was not taxed. The current Treasury Department keeps telling us something about a law that may be passed and says how hard it is. And all it got was that it slipped its Member a primitive parametric amendment that doesn't solve anything, and certainly not what Mr Brázdil wishes. So who here, ladies and gentlemen, supported and supported gambling?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u63	Thank you. Now in the debate, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u64	Mr President, thank you. I've been thinking about giving up. There's a joke about Chucko Norris that he's the only one who could build his home. A similar joke seems to me - first to let gambling boom, and then to build a political career to destroy it. For me, the question we are discussing is linked to what we want to achieve, because it is not clear to me. I have to say very frankly, I don't know what that means. The concept of concentrating and taxing clearly does not correspond to the social distribution of gambling. As it is unevenly spread towards low-income, excluded layers, dependent on benefits, in a sense, gambling can be referred to as secondary taxation of the poor. Assuming it's a moral claim that gambling supports sport, really very moral, because first we put the money into social benefits, we put it in those people's hands, they're super-presented among those who play, so they're pushed through the machines into the pockets of gambling owners, and then they generously support the sport. The same is the moral strength of the government's argument, which they say helps us to finance sport. But, of course, the question is, who holds the costs that are linked to what the effects of playing on those people and families are. That means, I consider the moral argument that when we tax it, we actually help municipalities and sports, it's pretty immoral. And the last one. I think - because if my information is correct, working on basic legislation regulating gambling has already made a lot of progress, I don't know how far it is - but I don't think that thinking about whether to return this concept or let it go through the first reading and park it and push on the arrival of the main law is a better strategy. So I'd just give my colleagues some thought if we could do that. But my main question is, what is this for?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u65	I thank Mr Gabal. I have two factual points, namely Marta Semelová and Michal Kučera, and then two proper applications for the debate - Mr Volný as the plaintiff and Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u66	Thank you. Mr President, I wanted to respond by your means to Mr Kalousek. When he was here accusing us of what he had done to limit gambling, I wanted to remind him that in 2011, when he was Minister of Finance, the then Ombudsman, Pavel Varvařovský, pointed out that the Ministry of Finance did not respect the regulations of towns and municipalities concerning permitted or permitted gambling. Forbidden places. It allowed illegal devices, didn't control that they were near school buildings, hospitals and so on. 27. 10. I intersected him to give the reasons for these permits, which were issued in violation of the law. I was told that the Minister had to get to know it first. A month later, I intersected him again, pointing out that soon there would be a deadline that was needed to initiate administrative negotiations, otherwise the operation of the halls would continue, which should have been banned long ago. Unfortunately, the administrative proceedings continued for so long that the operation of the halls continued.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u67	Thank you, colleague Semelová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Michal Kučera also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u68	Thanks for the word. Just a brief response to my previous speaker, Mr Gabal, to his moral suspension, which the municipalities can invest in sport and which they can't. Not the gamblers. Can they invest money from smoking? From alcohol? From fat food? It's all dirty money. The municipalities work with taxes to which they are entitled, and they try to make reasonable use of them. They therefore need to be invested in sport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u69	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. Now, therefore, Mr Jan Volný, still in the debate. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u70	Colleagues, co-workers, since I believe that you will let this proposal pass through for second reading and we will create room for further discussion, I therefore ask you to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 50 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u71	Thank you, Mr Volný. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, the last member of the debate so far, is now taking the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, what is key in the area of gambling is that gambling has the lowest level of taxation in the Czech Republic in the long term within the European Union. I believe it is one of the very lowest levels of gambling. And the other thing. When we started to accept the winning instruments and the gambling companies started here after 1990, a very bad law was created that enabled, in fact, part of the proceeds of these companies, or ordered them to point out to these companies, that they were publicly beneficial. As a result, it meant that, in essence, gambling companies began buying public opinion for this. Of course, despite various godly purposes, when part of the proceeds, but a very small part of the proceeds, transferred to various subsidies for folklore associations, for sports organizations, or for churches and so on. I think it's part of buying public opinion and it's wrong. That if the level of taxation is to be, it is to be standard taxation as elsewhere in the economy and that money is then to be distributed through the state budget. Otherwise, it's always about the mayor saying, "Look, deputies, here we have 300,000 in the gambling budget that our citizens lost there, maybe less adaptable or more adaptable, but they basically spent all their money there. But we got 300 grand from these companies, which we could put into sports, like youth. But I think the principle is wrong. It really should be through the state budget. So a letter from the President of the Czech Olympic Committee, who sent us this study by the prominent KPMG Group - Assessment of drawdown and use of resources for sports from lotteries in 2014. I have no objection to promoting sport, but it should go through standard and it should go through the state budget. Otherwise, I think that's why we're supposed to have a gamble that's only supposed to have a certain level of taxation. And basically, we will never be able to set conditions that, let's say, would be comparable at the level of other European countries, and the Czech Republic would not be Eldorado within the European Union. And even though the number of slot machines has decreased, for example, because part of the gambling has been transferred to the video terminal operation and the problem has basically not disappeared. I know you can't completely ban all gambling. Maybe there's a point in keeping some playrooms where people have a chance to play. But the fact that there are actually spread-out slot machines in restaurants, I think it's wrong. Basically, it means that people who can't manage money often lose their entire paychecks. So if we are really to talk about some fundamental restriction on gambling, it must be taxation that is common in other European countries. It cannot be the same as it has been, it cannot be that revenue will be directly the proceeds and income of specific municipalities. I think there's a far more stringent assessment of gambling. I dealt with this issue more in 2008, 2009. At that time, the money that was planted in gambling in the Czech Republic was around 200, 220 billion. Crowns. Of this amount only about 4 billion. they entered the state budget and the budgets of municipalities and cities as administrative fees and only about 4 or 4.5 billion. they were pointed out for community service purposes, i.e. for what I said, that public opinion was bought for it. So this is my contribution to this, and I am intercede for a comprehensive solution to gambling issues, as the government has promised in its programming statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u73	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. I have two factual points: Mrs Černochová and Mr Michal Kučera. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. By your means, I would like to respond to what has been said here by Mrs Semelová. I think we agree that we both tried very hard to eliminate gambling in Prague. I, as I was saying, have had zero tolerance since 2007, either to the winning instruments or to the video lottery terminals. But I am sorry that Mrs Semelová did not say here and did not mention one important thing when she attacked Mr Kalousek. That the Constitutional Court has actually brought a lot of confusion into this, which - Prague 2 has paid for the Constitutional Court's finding, because if the Constitutional Court's finding was not there, I haven't had a single -mat in Prague for a year and a half. But thanks to the fact that the Constitutional Court found it, Minister Babiš and his colleagues must now initiate administrative proceedings with those residuals who have not released the premises themselves. Of course, they use all the remedies that the administrative system allows them to do. And, of course, I don't want to settle for this situation, so every month I write with Minister Babiš or his deputy Mr. Závodský. I must say, not every change is always for the better. On my own account and in my experience, it was a huge mistake that Minister Babiš got rid of Mr. Řehola, who was in charge of lotteries and other similar games. 'Cause whenever there was a problem and I turned to this guy, he'd come as close as possible. And the numbers that were mentioned here by a colleague of Farský are true. Indeed, the most gambling businesses were interrupted during the time when the TOP 09 government, ODS and Public Affairs ruled this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u75	Thank you. Member Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u76	Thank you for the floor, and I hope that on this subject for the last time today, but it really forces me to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Hovorka, who once again said the magical idea here that the municipalities are managing the money they put into sport, culture and social support. And that the money should go through the budget. So what I'm saying is, the dirty gambling money, when it shows up in the budget, it's not dirty anymore. They're gonna wash, I guess, and the state's gonna split them up wisely. That's how I understand it. So is that attitude, like I said last time - cigarettes, alcohol, fatty foods, I guess we should mind too. We should get rid of those taxes, too. The reason for this amendment, I'd just like to sum it up, is the only one. It's not a gambling ban, it's not a gambling restriction, it's more money for Minister Babiš in the budget, it's nothing else here, it's all we approve of. I would like to say this in particular to some of the previous speakers who have spoken here about regulation of gambling. We don't regulate gambling here, we just want more of it in the state budget for Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u77	Thank you and I have one more factual comment from Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u78	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond briefly to a colleague of yours, Mr President. I didn't really say dirty money. I just said I didn't agree with the system of buying public opinion through the money that is distributed through local budgets, through the budgets of municipalities and cities. And I insist on that, and I also insist that such letters that we receive as Members, with such reports on the use of gambling money into Czech sport, I simply disagree with that. That the system is supposed to be transparent. And that's all I wanted to say. But I didn't say anything about dirty money. I said that gambling needs to be regulated and that in the Czech Republic the lowest level of taxation is within the EU. It may have shifted a little bit, but that's how it was in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u79	Thank you. I have two further factual points - first Mr Michal Kučera. Even though he said it was the last one, it's not. And then a colleague Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u80	I've only been a short while since my colleague Hovorka encouraged me to do this again. That means, in other words, Mr Hovorka, through Mr President, you are saying that the municipal authorities are inconvenient, that they cannot decide that these thousands of mayors are making bad decisions under the influence of apparently some naughty pressures or possibly being bought. That's how I understand it - the mayors let themselves be bought, the council bought themselves. That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u81	Thank you. Now my colleague Benešík and then Mr Hovorka once more. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u82	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am just a short reply to the comparison of cigarette addiction, alcohol, fat meals and gambling. Every addiction is a big problem. That's right. But I think gambling as one of the few, perhaps the only, has the potential to destroy the entire family with a complete destructive force. You can drink a house, you can drink a car, you can destroy a family for alcohol, but if someone loses hundreds of thousands or millions in a few days or weeks, they just don't drink it or smoke it or eat it on a fat meal. I think gambling is really the worst possible addiction between addictions in this regard. So the comparison is kind of limping. And if you look at how tobacco or alcohol is taxed, it's ten percent in the long run, and I don't have the impression that gambling has been like that, and it's still taxed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u83	Thank you, Mr Benešík. One more factual point by Mr Ludvík Hovorka and then Mr Kalousek with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u84	Thank you for the floor. Again, I stress that I did not say anything about the corruption of mayors, vice-mayors in relation to gambling, but I said that the principle set out here in 1990 when the Act on the Operation of Lotteries and other similar games was that gambling operators essentially started buying public opinion and that it was wrong. It is also wrong that the money is distributed directly into the budget of municipalities and cities, because this, of course, makes it possible to influence representatives and operators to simply take into account the fact that it was possible to build or support it in the municipality. I remember being here in the House of 2006 to 2010. There were several amendments to the Lottery Act and other similar games, and I remember every time she wanted to change the rules, there were always letters from sports organizations, from folklore organizations that wrote us to leave the Lottery Act and other similar games at the level as it is, because it suits. Everybody's okay with that. So that's what I was gonna say. That the principle was wrong and must be changed. And I insist. So, my colleague, through Mr President, listen to what I have said here and, if necessary, respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u85	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u86	Thank you. I agree with the first part of Mr Hovorka's complaint that it has been wrong for many years when operators have been able to buy public opinion by so-called contributions for charitable purposes. I don't think it's wrong for them to collect directly municipalities and cities. I cannot agree with the equation of a corrupt council - an incorruptible state, and it is clear that the great burden is borne by cities in their territory where gambling rooms are operated. Easily in 2009 could have been the lowest tax burden on gambling within the EU, because in 2009 we did not have a gambling tax at all. And maybe it won't be interesting for the unmemory to hear that if Sazka hadn't gone bankrupt, I'm afraid it would never have happened. The billion that sazka paid for the charitable purposes of the ČSTV was such a sum that whenever someone tried to do something like this, and I tried to do it in 2008, I came across a majority in the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum, including the government, including my own Members who did not approve and talked to me. Only with the collapse of Sazka, when sazka had nothing to do with the ČSTV, so paradoxically opened up the space for the first time in 2011. That's just the way it was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u87	Thank you. One more factual comment by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u88	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when I requested from the Ministry of Finance in 2008 documentation on how lottery operators and other similar games are taxed, I got a table where the amounts were bet by individual players, then there were amounts that were paid or paid for public utility purposes and there were amounts that were paid for administrative fees. In one case, the amount was around, I say, 3.8 billion. for administrative fees, in the second case, contributions for public utility purposes of about 4.5 billion. This was officially stated by the Ministry of Finance as taxation at the time. Well, it wasn't a classic tax, because in 1990 it was said that operators would not pay taxes, but they would pay for community service purposes. So I'm explaining it. And I also want to remember that there was one moment that came when online gambling was allowed. Although it was not generally agreed here, but it was simply necessary to allow internet betting, then the Minister signed Internet betting, so it was possible to play to a much greater extent than before. So just because someone here is saying that taxation was introduced for me, or that was when taxes were introduced, because sazka fell - Internet betting was also introduced, even though it was not agreed and there was no will to allow this in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u89	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. That was the last one entered into the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. The plaintiff? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u90	I'm just very shorthanded. I, of course, agree with Mr Bartošek that he is not quite a happy parliamentary proposal. I appreciate Mr Hovorka very much, and I believe that this problem needs to be resolved comprehensively, and this will be addressed by the new amendment. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you to let this amendment into second reading and create space for us to quantify the effects and to continue discussing this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u91	Thank you. The rapporteur's final word? He's interested. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u92	I would just like to say that there have been a few proposals from my colleagues to reject at first reading and a proposal to shorten the deadline to 50 days, so it should go through the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u93	Yes. Thank you. We have a motion to dismiss, we have a motion to return, a motion to shorten the deadline to 50 days and one motion to the commandment of the committee. These are things that we will be voting on gradually, but, of course, according to the order of the Rules of Procedure Act. First, I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The first decision - to return the proposed bill to the applicant for completion - will be decided by voting number 176, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the return. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 176 of the 151 Member present for 54, against 84. The motion was not accepted. [[20.00 hours]] The second proposal, which will be voted on by order number 177, will be rejected. I've started the vote with order number 177, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 177, from 152 Members present for 30, against 95, the proposal was not adopted. We will therefore vote on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. In voting 178, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee, the committee to the budget. Who's in? Thank you. Voting order number 178, from 154 in favour of 153, against no one, the proposal was adopted. The Committee on Budgets shall be a committee of guarantee. Another proposal that has been made in the debate is the commandment of the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports. That's what we're going to decide in the 179-order vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 179, from 154 Members present for 67, against 74, has not been accepted. The next proposal was a time limit for discussion, which was reduced by 10 days, i.e. 50 days. We're going to decide in the 180 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 180, from 154 Members present for 82, against 61, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee of Budget as a committee of guarantee and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 50 days. Thank you, rapporteur, thank you, and I finish point 84. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-009-084.u94	Good evening, honourable fellow Members. The next item is the item number
