ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u1	15. Government proposal of the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility / House printing 411/ - first reading Once again, I ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Mr. Andrej Babiš to take the floor and give us the press on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the Government's draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility. This is a legislation whose role is to cover the national budgetary framework and define its most important principles and principles. Specific requirements for public finances are implemented drafts of the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility and the Act amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of budgetary liability legislation. Comprehensive information on the nature of the proposed legislation can be obtained only from the assessment of all three mentioned standards. I therefore very much welcome the fact that the government has managed to find agreement on their wording and proposals can be discussed at the same time. The main objective of the draft constitutional law is to achieve healthy and sustainable public finances of the Czech Republic, which will give it sufficient room for decision-making in the implementation of budgetary and fiscal policy and ensure that international commitments are reflected, even in the case of normal fluctuations in the business cycle. The Constitutional Act will help improve the overall management of the Czech Republic, enhance transparency and efficiency of public finances and, as a result, promote the competitiveness of the Czech economy. Territorial self-governing units are designed to ensure sound and sustainable public finances, while also appropriately promoting economic and social development, employment and intergenerational cohesion. Healthy and sustainable public finances thus constitute the primary objective and, at the same time, the necessary condition for promoting economic and social development, which enables employment results to be achieved and ensuring intergenerational cohesion. At the same time, sound and sustainable public finances are among the main principles of the coordination of economic policies of the Member States of the European Union, which are implemented in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines, as laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Healthy public finances are considered a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability, which is intended to help achieve sustainable growth and employment objectives. With the Stability and Growth Pact following the Treaty, all Member States have undertaken to comply with the so-called "Stableness and Growth Pact'. the medium-term budgetary objective, the purpose of which is to ensure rapid progress towards the sustainability of public finances and to provide room for government decision-making in the management of the budget, particularly as regards the needs of public investment. The proposed proposal further addresses the contradiction between the Government's responsibility for compliance with international obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the area of fiscal discipline and the instruments it has. It is clear that only selected central government is under direct control by the government, with fiscal and budgetary policies being implemented by all levels of government in the broadest sense, i.e. territorial authorities, health insurance companies and other public institutions. The Constitutional Act defines the monitoring of budgetary responsibility for the same institutional coverage as used in the European Union's budgetary surveillance. At the constitutional level, the proposal also obliges public institutions to comply with the rules of transparency, effectiveness, economy and efficiency in the management of public finances in carrying out their activities. The challenge of the proposed adjustment of budgetary responsibility lies in the introduction of new numerical fiscal rules, which are already enshrined in the constitutional law. A basic rule can be considered to be the method of determining the total expenditure of the public institutions sector. It aims to ensure that public finances are in a medium-term position of the medium-term budgetary objective. Follow-up legislation also proposes an automatic corrective mechanism to return public finances to this objective. The general expenditure of the public institutions sector will be derived from the expenditure framework of the state budget and the budgets of state funds. The basic principle of the rule is in principle consistent with the requirements of the so-called fiscal agreements. A specific rule is proposed for individual local authorities, which, in the interests of health and sustainable public finances, will be managed so as to ensure that the amount of their individual total debts does not exceed the limit defined by the Act on budgetary liability rules. In the event of a lack of effectiveness of those rules, which would be reflected in an increase in the debt of the public institutions sector, a rule is proposed regulating the level of the debt ratio of this sector to GDP. The draft constitutional law introduces a threshold of 55 per cent of GDP, with measures in place in the public institutions sector leading to a long-term sustainable state of public finances. As with previous numerical fiscal rules, the specific form of the rule is defined in particular by the draft law on budgetary liability rules. It is also proposed by the same law to establish a National Budget Board, which will act as an independent expert body in the area of fiscal and budgetary policy. Its task will be to monitor the development of management in the public institutions sector and, in particular, to comply with constitutional law established rules, which it will also evaluate. Two other members of the Council will be elected by the Chamber of Deputies. Details relating to their functioning will be laid down by the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. The legal standard presented is designed as a regulation defining the long-term direction of public finances in the Czech Republic. However, it also provides sufficient flexibility for the implementation of the government's responsible economic policy. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the preparation of the constitutional law also follows some of the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact reformed in 2011. The proposal is also part of the transposition of the Council Directive on requirements for Member States' budgetary frameworks into national law. The law is expected to be effective from 1 January 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u3	Thank you. I'm registering priority rights here. I ask the Members whether they will last. I could start a general debate. I shall therefore give the rapporteur the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u4	Thank you for the floor. I thought, Madam Vice-President, I wouldn't get it as rapporteur. You fixed it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u5	It's just-- priority rights always have rights. That's why I arranged it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u6	Thank you very much for that. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the report on the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, press 411. The main objective of the draft constitutional law is to achieve healthy and sustainable public finances of the Czech Republic, which will provide sufficient room for decision-making in the implementation of budgetary and fiscal policy and ensure respect for international commitments, even in the case of normal short-term fluctuations. The Constitutional Act should improve the overall management of the Czech Republic, enhance transparency, efficiency of public finances and, as a result, promote the competitiveness of the Czech economy. The draft constitutional law will be the main instrument enabling the sustainability of public finances of the Czech Republic, for which numerical fiscal rules are necessary, the so-called debt rules, the monitoring of compliance with them ensured by the establishment of an independent National Budget Board and other measures strengthening the transparency of public finances. In its own constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, only the basic principles which I would like to recall are enshrined. It is a principle that the state and local authorities ensure sound and sustainable public finances. It is also the reminiscent provision of the National Budget Board as an independent body elected by the Chamber of Deputies to monitor, among other things, compliance with the rules of budgetary responsibility. It is the introduction of a debt brake starting with debt from 55 per cent of gross domestic product. And it is a provision on the management of a territorial self-governing entity so that the amount of its debt does not exceed the limit laid down by law. The budgetary implications are mentioned in this press, both the costs of setting up the National Budget Board in its first year of operation, amounting to CZK 16,5 million, and the total annual costs of operating the National Budget Board of CZK 15 million can be expected in the following years. It is, of course, the salaries of the three members of the National Budget Board and the costs of the staff of the Office of the National Budget Board. Ten employees are expected to be there. Otherwise proposed legislation is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. It is also consistent and therefore compatible with European Union law. I propose that we combine the debate on the press 411 and 412, these are the budgetary rules, because it is essentially one and the same thing - the constitutional law plus the budgetary rules. I think it would be appropriate to hold a merged debate. I recommend, of course, the release of this press of this constitutional law to second reading and I report, Madam President, to the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u7	Thank you. Since it was a procedural proposal, we will proceed... [[On the right, there shall be more than one President with priority rights.]] Favorite law? Do you want to respond to the proposal? Put up a counterproposal? No, we now have to deal with the proposal that we will merge the debate on paragraph 411 and the House of Press 412 (rightly to paragraph 15 = printing 411 and to point 16 = printing 412). I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. [[Big fuss in the hall. The debate at the newsstand.]] Well, after all, there's a counterproposal at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u8	I would ask the rapporteur that we attach the next point to this. I think this debate makes sense - to lead it to the House prints 411, 412, 413. So if there is no objection, we could vote that the debate will be all three of the press together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u9	The rapporteur, if he has any comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u10	Yes, it's possible. As rapporteur, I agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u11	Okay. We will vote on the proposal to merge the debate on press 411, 412, 413. I'll check you all out just in case, and please sign up with your cards again. Initiating vote on the proposal tabled. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 36, to which 136 are registered, for 135, against no one. I note that the proposal has been adopted and we will have a debate on all three points together. I have Mr Plzák's factual comment here now, but I have not yet opened the debate, so I cannot let it go. At this point... [[The whole O.R.'s buzzing.]] I repeat once again, Mr Member, there is no debate open, I cannot make a factual point. So I am now opening up a general debate. I have several priority rights for the general debate - Mr Kalousek, Mr Okamura, Mr Klaška, for President Mihola, Mr Filip and rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I was disciplined to come to the rhetorical stage, but I am not quite sure right now, please let the medical staff advise me that at the moment when we merged the debate, whether the petitioner should have the opportunity to say at least a brief introductory word to the other two press, as well as the rapporteur, and only then would we have carried out the general debate. I think that would make it more medically correct. But I can be wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-018-015.u13	I agree with that, Mr Member, and I ask the plaintiff to give his opening statement to both the rest of the press.
