ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u1	115. Report on the Environment of the Czech Republic in 2013 /house print 369/ Again, please the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the report on the environment of the Czech Republic in 2013. Indeed, the way in which we discussed it was not until March or April, sorry, as early as 2015, which, of course, is a considerable inertia, and I, in part and possibly also in the debate or discussion, would explain why. We have actually dealt with information on the Environment Report several times in various contexts in recent weeks, such as the already mentioned addition of regional reports, which will be supplemented from the 2014 report. The report on the environment of the Czech Republic is annually processed on the basis of Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to environmental information. This report is an important source of information on the state and development of the environment in the Czech Republic, including international comparisons. These analytical information on the state of the environment in the report also serves to propose measures to improve the area. The 2013 report contains a total of 38 key indicators, including their evaluation. The indicators mentioned in the report follow up on the main topics of the report on the environment, pardon, state environmental policies of the Czech Republic in the period 2012 to 2020 and serve to evaluate the fulfilment of the stated objectives and priorities. The 2013 report evaluates the state and development of each environmental component in the following areas: air and climate, water management and water quality, biodiversity, forests, land and landscape, industry and energy, transport, waste and material flows and environmental financing. Allow me very briefly, because the report is quite extensive, you had the opportunity to get acquainted with it, to evaluate overall that the environmental situation has improved slightly again for 2013 and thus to follow the positive trend in previous years. Improving, and this must be said, is also linked to reducing the negative impact of the economy on the environment in 2013, which was supported by a mild economic recession. The greatest reduction in pressure on the environment occurred in the sectors of energy, manufacturing and transport. On the contrary, there remains a considerable impact of household consumption on the environment, in particular, and this is already a number of times discussed area of local space heating for air quality. With the fall in pressure from the main economic sectors, households and transport are becoming one of the main factors that adversely affect the environment. I wouldn't really want to delay right now by quoting the 38 indicators from individual areas. I'm definitely ready for a discussion. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that, once we assess the environmental report for 2014, there will be another partial improvement. On the other hand, and I have said this several times here, in some areas such as air, air quality, we cannot expect jumping changes there. We can expect another gradual trend in improving air quality. From the point of view of the Ministry of Environment and, of course, the way we finance environmental protection, we will do everything we can to ensure that further environmental reports are only better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u3	Thank you. The report was discussed by the Environment Committee. The order was delivered as printing 369/1. I ask Mr Nekl, who is the rapporteur for this committee, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add just a few words to this report, because the opening word of the Minister was quite consistent and, moreover, this report is very comprehensive and it has been a long time for us to study it. After all, I would like to point out that this report shows such a stagnant and perhaps slightly negative trend compared to those plus trends that, despite the gradual positive development of the economy, this process also reflects the production of pollutants and emission greenhouse gases into the air. And we hear it every spring, every autumn, every winter, every summer, that the most affected regions of Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký and Středočeský are affected. On the other hand, I am sorry that this problem is not even pierced in this report, and it is quite a significant problem in the Olomouc region, because if you are ever looking at television news relations, you know that the Olomouc - Prostějov - Přerov region is very often affected by this problem and it needs to be dealt with there as well. Secondly, I would just like to point out that the report shows that the fragmentation of the natural environment has continued due to the construction of the landscape by transport infrastructure and agricultural land management. I'm not gonna discuss it. Just a warning number that in 2013 we lost 2,900 hectares of arable land in quotation marks, which is a significant part, and thus also affects the quality of nature. Of course, transport, especially road transport, is also an important burden on the environment, and therefore the responsible authorities should consider building a railway network as quickly as possible so that we can get part of the road freight transport on the rail. And still stagnant is the material consumption, the intensity of energy and waste production in our country. Even so, it must be noted that this report is handled very well, that there is a long time series of comparisons from 1990 to today, and we can take a picture of how the environment is developing in our country and that the Ministry and its staff have paid due attention to this report and its outcome is simply quality. It should also be noted that, on the basis of last year's and this year's environmental pressure quotes, the Ministry has achieved that similar reports will be produced today for individual regions in our Republic, thereby improving the quality of citizens according to the law on which they were discussed, information on the development and state of the environment. Finally, I would like to present the resolution of the Environment Committee from the 18th meeting on 15 January, when, following the justification of Deputy Minister of Environment . Jan Landa and the report by doktor Josef Nekl and after the debate the Committee on the Environment recommends Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to take note of the Environment Report of the Czech Republic in 2013, instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and to the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u5	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have Mr. Zahradník's application here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I join the rapporteur with the view that the report is well-worked, it has a traditional form, essentially similar to that of the 2012 report, but the current data are added. First of all, let me thank you all, colleagues, for supporting the proposal imposed on the Ministry of the Environment to use the data collected for the national environmental report to process the environmental reports of individual regions. This is simply because the regions need these data, they need data aggregated for their territory, and I think they will certainly be useful. I would like to make some special comments on this report. Rapporteur Nekl talked about how the report reports on the growing agricultural soil fund and thus on the constant fragmentation of the natural environment. Here, of course, we must consider the conflict of two public interests: public interest on the quality and network of transport infrastructure, but also, of course, on a certain complexity of the natural environment. I don't think we're gonna be able to be judges here. My next point concerns water management. In particular, this report refers to the supply of quality drinking water to citizens, as well as the treatment and further processing of waste from water management. However, I think that there is a little lack of what we have mentioned here recently, and that is that the Czech Republic should be more concerned with keeping the water that is produced on its territory in the territory of the Republic. Here again, I recall the existing document Plan of the Main Water catchment area, which some years ago, around 2006, 2007 was discussed and which set out the territory to be protected in the future in order to allow, if necessary, the construction of dams that would accumulate water if necessary and in case of lack of water. Dryness is predicted, an increase in dry season is predicted, and therefore our Republic should take care of this matter and re-establish the Main Water catchment area plan on the agenda. First, at the level of consultation with local authorities, with citizens and then, of course, also here in the House. There are a few things I would like to mention. Indeed, I have recently dealt with the problem of pollution of our territory from local heating sites, and this is true, Moravia, North Moravia, Ostrava is indeed very heavily polluted, and there are measures to be taken here, and I think this report maps very well. And my last point is more of a technical one. I've already paused on the committee. As a physics teacher here, I can't agree to dividing electricity sources into steam power plants and other power plants, including nuclear power plants. We all know that even a nuclear power plant is actually a steam plant, which only uses the heat generated in a nuclear reaction to produce steam instead of burning coal. But this is a technical matter, not a matter at the expense of the quality of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u7	Thank you, too. I have no further application for the debate, so I am ending the general debate. I suppose, at this stage, interest in final words... Yeah, okay. There will still be a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u8	Sorry, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this will be very brief. Let me just react very quickly. First of all, what was said here. We are preparing a comprehensive document with Minister Jurečka, which will deal with the threat of drought in the Czech Republic, which, given the fact that it is raining now, may not seem so acute, but let's look at California and its first time historically a really dramatic drought. The same can happen to us in the Czech Republic. It's already happening in South Moravia. So for the first time, it will be the conceptual material of two ministries and other departments concerned supported by a very good, I think, analytical part. In the next few weeks, he will go into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings as a strategic concept, which will then be discussed by the government. So that is only an answer to the reaction to Mr. Zahradník's colleague, certainly completely justified in terms of water retention in the landscape. For next year - virtually. The 2014 report will also be supplemented by other parts, i.e. following discussions with the Committees on the Environment, both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. about the old environmental burden and also the effect of those so-called. ultra-fine particles that have a significant impact on health and, of course, on people's lives. These are dust microparticles that are being monitored today and have to be monitored even more. So it's just for refills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u9	Thank you. I am now opening up a detailed debate in which, please, the rapporteur. All you have to do is refer to the resolution in question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I refer to the resolution of the environmental committee that I made in my reporting report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u11	Yes, thank you. I will ask if anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate. It's not like that. There is no need for final words after a detailed debate, in which case we will vote. The motion for a resolution, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment, has been read. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to take note of this report. Who's against it? The vote is number 84, registered 142, for 115, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I conclude with paragraph 115. We have a fixed point of association agreement with Ukraine for 10 o'clock. I think it'll be easier to wait three minutes than to open a whale shop. So I'm going to interrupt the House for three minutes and we're going to continue at 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-003-115.u12	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the negotiations with a fixed item.
