ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-007-191.u1	191. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2014 /German press 441/ The rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, please ask him to sit at the rapporteur's table. The item was interrupted after the rapporteur's introductory words and I can start a general debate in which I have Mr Jiří Valenta's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-007-191.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't so long ago that I criticized the Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television for 2013. And if I was dissatisfied with the efficiency and management of Czech Television at the time, the same thing, but to a much greater extent also applies to this annual report. So allow me at least a few comments so that I can justify my concern to you properly. I will not evaluate individual programs or extend individual critical views of disgruntled viewers or various interest groups, which I could naturally also do, but I will focus mainly on hard data that can be read from the report. In the beginning, however, I would like to get in touch with the evaluators of the public service obligation mentioned in the introductory words of the report, and the CEO of Czech Television, Mr. Petr Dvořák, is talking about them. I mean, gentlemen, international EBU auditors. In their opinion with unscathed regret, they stated that "anyone can file a complaint to the Czech Television Council or to the Radio and Television Council concerning the activities or programmes of Czech Television, and there are such detailed questions that should not be discussed here at all". Such a system - and now I beg your attention - opens the door for interference and external pressure. The people of the EBU and also Mr. Director Dvořák probably think of themselves as an independent and free space destined for the activities of the public media as a free field of their own competence, i.e. an unbridled domain of an autonomous power-media entity. Then our public should not be able to intervene in this area, even through its elected representatives or authorities, in the current way of submitting addressed complaints or complaints. In this context, let us consider that the concessionaires, on the one hand, would allow Czech Television to collect television fees, which are the main source of income of Czech Television, in the amount of 5.67 billion. CZK, but at the same time, on the other hand, they would have limited, perhaps even unacceptablely reduced possibilities to project and take into account the activities of the public media and the content of its broadcasting their legitimate interests and requirements. [[12.50 hours]] And now to some of the facts of the report, which I dare to interpret very differently from the way their petitioner does. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you say specifically about the fact that there has been a significant year-on-year decline in the age structure of Czech Television in the category of people between 20 and 30 years, by 30%? What do you say that while the number of employees of Czech Television decreased by 37 persons year on year, which may well be acknowledged, there were 21 students out of this number? Therefore, it is not justified to ask in this respect: Is this not an unnecessary gamble with the so much needed highly qualified force? And three. Or what do you say about the broadcast itself, there was a year-on-year drop in viewers on the main channel ČT1? Even before I attach several other similarly unflattering statistical data contained in the report, I must point out for the sake of completeness that according to the Czech Television Code Article 5.8, Czech Television is fully subordinate to the imperative to discover and convey to viewers a true picture of reality. Similarly, the Czech Television Act, which in § 2 para. 2 establishes the obligation of Czech Television to provide objective, verified, in its whole balanced and versatile information for free making of opinions. I believe in this respect, and they are certainly not alone in this country, even I think that the advocates of the corresponding quality of the activities of Czech Television are a significant minority, that unfortunately this is not always the case. But let us take note of the following information. According to the electronic viewing measurement of TNS AISA, the perceived ability of Czech Television to transmit a true picture of reality decreased by 2 percent year on year to 65 percent. About 2 per cent perceived diversity of views presented in the broadcast, at 69 per cent. About 2 percent perceived objectivity, versatility and balance of information - 68 percent. About 2 percent perceived contribution of Czech Television to the legal awareness of citizens of the Czech Republic at 63 percent. By 3 percent according to daily continuous research of Czech Television satisfaction with news, current publicist and discussion programmes, even at 79 percent. Do you, then, fellow Members, not think that this trend associated with the notice value of the relevant figures suggests something in many essential criteria rather than the declared quality of the broadcast and its progress? Do you really think that Czech TV needs to start hiring for considerable resources to keep its audience, private companies? You should now, at least according to my information, be called three to improve PR Czech Television. And it is quite indifferent that they should be chosen in a public tender when they then serve the public as a bear. And I can go on. For example, it seems interesting to me that the number of published contributions from domestic policy decreased by 9 percent year on year. In this respect, I certainly do not think that the previous year 2013 should be any more politically turbulent, as this irrational decline in information activity in 2014 is trying to explain the authors of this report. An interesting fact can also be the statistically measured response of the general population at age plus 18, to the question of whether the representation of experts with different opinions on individual topics in the Czech Television broadcast is balanced. 66 percent of them said they did, which also means that a whole third of the current balance, respectively. I don't like imbalances. And I don't naturally like it either. And if we are at least partially oriented in the way we get respondents, e.g. in the way of asking and the content of research questions, it must be clear to us that even one third of the dissatisfied ones are certainly not a negligible proportion. Now, because we, as the Chamber of Deputies, are not only an established legislature, but also a grouping with a diverse political composition politically and morally responsible to its constituents, I will allow myself to talk about the space devoted to individual political subjects in the broadcast of Czech Television. I note that I am once again only drawing on the annual report submitted. I will start as you might expect, of course, with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. The number of television references about this political entity decreased by 32 percent year on year, and when I put this figure into context e.g. with a large increase in the number of references to KDU-ČSL by 80 per cent, it seems suspicious and really unbalanced to me, despite the possible argument of current human rights executive involvement. The fact that Babišův's business project YES increased the number of television references by a gigantic 345 percent last year also leaves me free to consider. Contrast with a twelve-fold smaller increase, by only 28 percent in this comparison, with the Czech Social Democratic Party, the election winning and having the position of Prime Minister, can also seem strange in this regard and can also prove a kind of tender political orientation of Czech Television. Of course, I leave the thought in which this orientation might take place on your well-respected consideration. However, many citizens and, at the same time, dealers are very well aware of these obvious inequalities, and the quality of the broadcast, I do not want to say caused directly by bias and impartiality, is steadily decreasing. I have already described the validated decline in the objectivity of Czech television by 2 percent in my performance. The unbalance of Czech television broadcasts continues to be seen in the share of political parties and political news. While the communists have a 4% share, i.e. almost as high as the Dawn movement, it is 3%, for example. ODS and TOP 09 in the political news of Czech Television excel every 10 percent. So I am speaking: How does Czech Television take into account the results of the last free elections? Isn't she more tendential or subjective? So isn't there some latent form of what synergy effect you have between the Czech Television and the Czech right? The similar imbalance effect is reflected in statistics by 20 of the most frequently presented politicians on the Event. It is very strange that there is not one communist representative among them, although for some relief I must admit that former communists or members of the National Front are still crawling with the elite twenty. I am curious to see how the Council of Czech Television, for whose new President Jan Bednář this aspect of public service balance is, according to his comments, absolutely crucial, especially in the news and in the publicity, finally and properly copes with such well-known impartiality. It is therefore no wonder that the Czech Television Council was forced to deal with last year, and now listen carefully, 239 complaints and reactions. A large part of them concerned the said balance and objectivity of news coverage in the broadcast and the information provided by Czech Television in the case of conflict in Ukraine. However, the concessionaires often asked and continued to ask me. information about the amount of salaries and rewards of some members of Czech Television management. And they don't always get the answers they want. In 2013, for your information, the 2010 Supreme Court judgment, which stipulated that the beneficiaries of public funds should communicate such information with specific names. This fact made even more clear by the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court of 2014, from which it should, at least in my view, imply that the management of Czech television is progressing in a way that does not support the law. I do not understand why this de democratic rule of law is now tolerated. The laws are likely to apply selectively, unfortunately. [[13.00 hours]] For all those who would like to say that, in my assessment of the activities of Czech Television, I have deviated ideologically or otherwise subjectively, I repeat once again that all the information currently provided to you comes mainly from the processor of this annual report and my added value will in particular calculate the inclusion of this information in a context other than what the processor would have intended. After I recently assessed the Czech TV's management and eventually called it opaque and to some extent wasteful, some people associated with this institution were labeled my performance as a purposeful attack by the Communists and basically simplified by some kind of assimilation of the bridge to my alleged dislike for the History programme. However, which I mentioned in a very different context, very marginally. I was saddened by such a fundamental misunderstanding, but with the distance of time, I understood everything well. My feelings can best express the words of former Czech Television Councilwoman Jana Dědečková, who said for the media that Czech Television will consider a purposeful attack on itself and all independent groups from internal and external collaborators to a cleaning woman of any criticism. And it adds that in this respect the public will also remember that Czech television distributes 7 billion in a completely opaque way. CZK of licence fees between private entities. And that may be why instead of being self-absorbed, there's a loud alarm and mobilization against critics. And in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take one, now a completely subjectively constructed issue connected with sighing. Does Czech Television really create an orientation point for all members of society with its programmes? And does it promote the coherence of society and the integration of all individuals, groups and communities? Depending on how each of us directly excluded from the preamble to the Czech Television Code responds to this question, we should also vote. I have decided to vote not to accept the submitted material, and I am officially proposing that to you. In this report, I lack the necessary progress in the activities of Czech Television, the full proof of the quality of broadcasting, but also the necessary transparency and objectivity, especially political objectivity. Within these categories, i.e. transparency, objectivity and balance, each public institution should move consistently and consistently with some ease in relation to its concessionaires. Let us not forget, however, in an objectively critical approach to the activities of Czech Television on two aspects, that even bad things are capable of positive development in the future, and at the same time, please do not be flattered by some, and I now honestly point out that even occasionally undisputed benefits arising from the activities of Czech Television, for a simple reason: even broken hours show the right time, unfortunately only twice a day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-007-191.u3	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. Before I interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I will leave a point of fact to Mr Martin Komárek. Mr Kolovratník and Mr Bendl will continue when we re-classify this item in the programme. Mr colleague, I will read a change in the apology of Mr Ivan Pilný, who only apologized until 11 o'clock, and I also saw him here. Mr Martin Komárek's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-007-191.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Sorry to keep you from lunch, but I wanted to respond last time to Mr Grebeníček, who quoted me for a long time, for which I thank him only partially, because I and the electoral committee as such might have the impression that they criticize the activities and economics of Czech television. Please, we don't do that, we can't do that, we don't want to do that. Let's let everyone do that individually if they want to. I don't take anybody in the House the right to high-five what they want, there's a lot to pay here, but in fact the House deals with the work of the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council, which is responsible to the House. I can criticize and I am critical of the monitoring work of the Czech Television Council and I firmly hope that the House will have a better opportunity to assess the report if the House accepts the proposal for a simple amendment that we have prepared in the Election Committee and which proposes the merger of these reports on activity and on management into one. I think it's only logical, only right. In this centre, I would like to ask the Members present to support this proposal, which we will propose for a grémium. I stress that, of course, we have discussed this with appropriate advice and with appropriate management, so no one is against it. I ask for consensus and I ask for the House to act in a qualified manner, which means assessing the work of the Council of Czech Television, or the Council of Czech Radio, not these media as such. I think that's unfortunate - and I just said a very mild word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-007-191.u5	I thank Mr Komárek for his time on the point of fact. I'm interrupting point 191. At the same time, I also apologize for the afternoon meeting, for working reasons, for the meeting of the Mountain Service Board, Stanislav Berkovec apologizes. I'm interrupting our negotiations until 2:30 p.m. until the time of the oral questioning. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-007-191.u6	honourable Member, honourable Members. The next item is oral intervention, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the government. Before we proceed to discuss it, allow me to load my apologies. For working reasons, for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14:30, Mr Miloš Babiš, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes for today's meeting from 14:30 to 18:00, Minister Stropnickýý apologizes for the afternoon meeting for working reasons, Mrs Martina Berdychová apologises for today's meeting from 14:30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Martin Sedlář apologizes for working reasons for today's meeting between 14:30 and 18:00 and Mrs Válková apologises for working reasons for today's meeting from 14:30 to the end of the working day. Just to be safe, I will read the apologies of the members of the government so that our Members who interpel, know who will be and will not be present. The Prime Minister apologizes for his work for today's meeting, he's on a foreign trip. Mr. Andrej Babiš apologizes for today's meeting, the reason is a foreign trip. Also Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Minister Jiří Dienstbier apologizes for work reasons, Minister Milan chovanec for work reasons, Minister Marián Jurečka from 14.30 for work reasons, Minister Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons, Mr Robert Pelikán until 14.30 for work reasons, so he should be present, Minister Dan Ťok apologizes from 17.00, otherwise he is here, Minister Valachová for work reasons and Minister Zaorálek until 14.30, so he should also be present.
