ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended, and other related laws /house print 569/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to introduce a government bill amending the law on association in political parties and in political movements and other related laws. The main objective of the bill is to introduce a more transparent control of the funding of political parties and political movements. The new obligations of these political entities are laid down, in particular the obligation to use the so-called "sponsored' for their financing. transparent accounts. [[Noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, the financial limit for donations from both natural and legal persons is set. The Parties and the Movement shall not accept in one calendar year from the same person gifts which would exceed a total amount of 3 million. Crowns. A member's contribution in excess of 50 000 shall also be considered as a donation. Crowns. The obligation to provide a more detailed overview of revenue and expenditure in the annual financial reports, including election expenditure, is also introduced. Parties and movements will be obliged to publish annual financial reports on the Internet. The accounting auditor will have to change the party or movement after at least five years. The bill allows the party or movement to form or be a member of the political institute. According to the draft law, the political institute is a publicly beneficial legal person aimed at supporting research, publication, educational or cultural activities in political and public life. The possibility of providing a State contribution to support the activities of political institutes is also introduced. On the basis of the recommendation of GRECO, the content of the bill is also the establishment of an independent office for the supervision of the management of political parties and political movements. The Office shall be an independent body composed of the President, four members and other servants of the State. The President of the Office will be appointed President of the Republic from two candidates - one will be proposed by the Chamber of Deputies and one Senate. The term of office of the President shall be six years and the President shall not be appointed for more than two consecutive periods. Members of the Office shall be appointed by the President of the Republic from candidates elected by the Senate. The candidates are proposed by the Senate President of the SAO, Chamber of Deputies and Senators. The term of office of a member of the Office shall be six years and shall be renewable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, the Minister said almost everything about the proposed law in his opening speech. As rapporteur, I'll try to tell you what he didn't tell you. If you look at the House press 569/0 at the very end, on the last page of the press on page 86 you will find a draft decree on the model card and on the model form for the annual financial report of the political party and the political movement. Paragraph 2 of the Decree states: "The format of the form for the annual financial report is set out in the Annex to this Decree'. A in Section 3: "This Decree shall take effect on 1 January 2017.' Unfortunately, no model form is listed in the Annex and I would like to inform you of the wording of § 86 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure: "If an implementing regulation is to be passed on to the law, the Organising Committee may request from the applicant his proposal. The proposal for such a regulation shall be submitted by the applicant whenever it is intended to take effect at the same time as the law.' As I said, the draft decree states that it takes effect on 1 January 2017 as well as the law. As rapporteur, I am merely stating that this bill has not been tabled in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, and I am reporting to the debate so that I can make a procedural proposal in it. You're gonna ask yourself - some sort of annex to a decree, what's the big deal? But it is this decree that will determine, not what we will submit as political parties, that we will determine by law, but how the political parties will present it. And in my ten-year experience of assessing the completeness of the annual financial reports of political parties and movements, I tell you that I know how important every word is, every item in the decree that sets out what and how the parties submit according to the existing wording of the law. I would also like to recommend your attention to the time series of events as described in the draft law. At some point in the spring of 2016, we will adopt the draft law with effect from 1 January 2017. However, the provisions on the establishment of the Office shall take effect on the date of its publication, so that the President of the Office and the members of the Office may then be elected. That could be half of 2016. In the transitional provisions, the political parties submit their annual financial report for 2016 under the law currently in force, and for the first time, the parties will submit annual financial reports only for 2017, i.e. on 1 April 2018. What will the President and the members of the Office do and with them the whole office for almost two years from mid-2016 until 1 April 2018, when will they assess the first annual financial reports submitted? Maximum consumption 15 miles. koruna, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. So much for my brief speech by the rapporteur, and I am reporting to the debate, Mr President, when you open it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u5	Yes, thank you. So I am opening up a general debate, and as rapporteur, you have priority rights. In that case, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I give according to § 54 para. 8 a proposal to suspend this item and adjourn until the Government submits a full draft decree, as required by § 86 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u7	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal, so I will put it to a vote without debate. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a check-out request here. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. For the sake of completeness, we will vote on the interruption of this point until the Government presents the complete material, including the implementing decree, in order to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 107, with 118 Members registered, for proposal 49, against 45. This proposal was rejected. With a factual point - it is not so. Ambassador, okay, I see you deleted it. Vice-President Filip claims priority. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I do not really understand your vote. The rapporteur will inform you that we are in violation of the Rules of Procedure Act, and you do not mind. If we were discussing a law that doesn't have such a significant impact on the construction of the state's constitutional institutions, I don't only mean the Czech state now, but I wouldn't take it so seriously about the construction of the way the basic institutions are formed. [[With emphasis:]] But you really believe that instead of parliamentary democracy, we are going to establish a bureaucratic system here, where political parties, i.e. the right of a citizen to gather freely in political parties, and so create a political regime of the state, and now forgive me if I take that theory from the 18th, 19th, 20th or 21st centuries, and you let five or seven bureaucrats control what those political parties are doing and build it above the entire constitutional system? And you really don't mind? Well, in that case, I propose a different procedural proposal, namely an interruption until the meeting of the political party chairmen involved in this Chamber of Deputies, when we agree on how to proceed further on such a serious matter as the political party law. Don't be angry with me, but if you don't respect your constitutional oaths as Members of this Parliament, I'm really sorry, but I can't go on with a clear conscience about this negotiation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u9	Nice, good evening, dear colleagues. Before I give the floor to the Minister, there is a procedural motion to interrupt this point. [[Several Members in front of the speaker's desk.]] I am sorry, Mr Vice-President, we must respect the Rules of Procedure here as well. Until the meeting of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs represented in this Chamber of Deputies on this bill. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting this point until the meeting of the members of the Members' Clubs on this bill, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 108, 134 Members are registered, for 70, against 28. I am interrupting this point until the meeting of the Presidents of the parliamentary parties represented in this Chamber of Deputies. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We will continue with the next item, which is item 48, a government bill amending some electoral laws and other related laws. We're at first reading. On behalf of the Government, this proposal - sorry, before we do, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u10	Mr Vice-President, I would suggest that you give a five-minute recess, no matter how much we consult, because those points logically follow up on each other. At this point, which you interrupted, I wasn't in favour of the interruption, there's an office to set up, and now this bill is about to proceed. Actually, we interrupted the point indefinitely. Well, I'd like a five-minute break from your decision not to put it to the expense of my club, so we can discuss how we're going to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u11	Mr President, I have also thought of something like this, I see that we are thinking very similarly, and I am pleased because these points really relate to each other. I am therefore interrupting the House meeting for five minutes, and I ask the President of the MPs to come up here to consult. We'll continue at 6:39 p.m. I'm interrupting the House meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u12	It's 18.39 and we'll continue our adjourned negotiations. There's a vote check going on. I see Vice President Černochová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I apologize very much to my esteemed colleagues, but I voted no, and I have a yes on high," so I object and question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u14	There is a challenge to the vote that has been voted on. I will put to the vote on Mrs Černochová's objection. I am opening the vote on Mrs Černochová's objection. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 109 vote. 146 Members and Members are registered, for 116, against 4. The motion was accepted. I'll be back then. We're going back to point 49 and we'll be - sorry, Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u15	Before we vote again, I believe that the President has had a vote on a proposal other than that put forward by Vice-President Filip. Let's just keep an eye on it. I am convinced that we voted on the meeting of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, but the proposal was made by the chairmen of the political parties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u16	I'm very sorry. I really didn't hear it right, and I said it wrong. We actually voted on the proposal to the presidents of the political parties, not the clubs. I'm sorry if I overheard my colleague Filip. Sorry, Chairman Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u17	So that it doesn't look like we're trying to scare President Babiš off, so I'm willing to propose "presiding political parties and movements."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u18	Thank you for this very clear formulation. We will therefore vote once again after Mrs Černochová's objection, which has been adopted, to interrupt this point in the meeting of the political chairmen and the movement represented in the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote on this proposal by my colleague Filip. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 110 vote. 149 Members and Members are registered, for 58, against 54. This proposal has not been adopted. We will continue with another duly registered priority right, and this is the Minister of the Interior. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u19	Mr President, honourable Members, we believe that the press is okay, that the form of the decree is only a form for the annual report. It will determine and process its own decree until the Office, which will be established in de facto per year. That means, from our point of view, the process is as ready as it was, okay, but let's talk about it. We are still ready to deliver those forms to the relevant committees when this standard is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jandák's point of fact. Ambassador, are you interested in a point of order? No. We will therefore continue the debate. Another duly registered member is Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u21	Mr President, colleagues, thank you for the floor. I think the bill is very necessary. We really need it for a long time and I am glad that we have managed to find a consensus, I hope not only in the coalition, but that we will be able to find a consensus with the opposition. Of course, the law has many benefits. I think it is important to limit real cash payments. The proposal is for 5,000 crowns. I think that this is a reasonable amount that does not prevent political parties from operating in normal life. I also think that there is a need to establish transparent accounts and special accounts. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior for being able to actually distinguish between two types of accounts in this debate, because the original proposals aimed at public access to all, which would, for example, cause not quite deliberately expected consequences, and that all information about income, including membership contributions, would be made available, and thus on the web, everyone could look up every member of the political party and movement, which I think should not be the consequence that was intended, that is to say, we should, in principle, publish on the Internet members of all parties and movements that are in the Czech Republic. I am certainly not ashamed to be a member of social democracy, but I do think that this is a matter which, unfortunately, would also be exploitable and could also lead to discrimination in employment in certain cases. So this, in my opinion, is a matter that has been well solved. Citizens will, of course, see the accounts that will be on the Internet, and they will be led by all the funds for electoral campaigns, whether their income or expenditures, and, of course, all the revenue from political parties and substantial expenditures. However, there will not be, for example, information on employment contracts or precisely the payment of contributions from party members and movements, I mean the proper ones. Of course, if the contributions were exceptional beyond the minimum amount, they would be recorded there and, of course, they would be published. I confess that I find it very difficult to accept the establishment of a control office. Not because there's no need for control, but because we're going to set up a new office again. I would prefer that we entrust this control to the Supreme Audit Office, which is already in operation, and I think that not only the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, political parties, but, above all, to the public. However, the debates that have been going on have ultimately resulted in the establishment of a separate office, and I see the arguments, including the GREKO Group, as certainly important and it is just about making the office very economical. I am pleased that the initial proposals for the remuneration of the members of this office have decreased radically after comments and will not be very high, in my view, at the original proposed level. As far as the limits on donations are concerned, I think they are most important. Personally, I would like to open up a debate on reducing the limit of CZK 3 million a year. I think the limit could easily be CZK 150,000 per year for a physical person who would choose to support the party because I think the parties should not depend on companies, entrepreneurs, but on voters. And it is a question of whether we should not impose a full ban on corporate donations, which means, for example, whether people, i.e. owners of companies, should not donate their funds directly, not as companies, because unfortunately, some companies find it very difficult to track ownership, and that is, of course, how money can flow to the party's account, which has a strange owner or which can be through an owner who is only trying to hide their origins. Those are the minor reservations I have on the proposal. Otherwise, as a whole, I support the proposal, and I think that we are able to hold a debate on the committee's premises, and I therefore recommend that the proposal proceed to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u22	Thank you, Mr Jeroný Tejc. With a factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Borka? It's a mistake, all right. We will proceed to another duly registered and this is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u23	Have a nice evening, dear colleagues. Allow me to comment, too. Let me start by making a comment on the previous vote. It is precisely because the government coalition has not yet officially dealt with political parties about such an important law concerning the functioning of political parties, it is a pity that this negotiations did not take place before the first reading, because, of course, this way of discussing it is definitely a problem that we could or should have made some reservations before we even discussed this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies. So it is a pity that we have not given room to negotiate with the political party chairmen. [[18.50 hours]] Now, allow specific comments, which we can therefore make in plenary or, if necessary, in committees on a law relating to association in political parties. We have, of course, a fundamental point here, and that is the creation of an office for supervising the management of political parties. I am generally opposed to the emergence of unnecessary new offices, because we now have certain tools to control the activities of political parties. There is an inspection committee of the Chamber of Deputies, where all the MPs are represented, and there is no way to talk about the fact that the control on his part is going in any way wrong, not transparent and the like. On the contrary. There were no complaints about this, and therefore the creation of an office as a new, say, bureaucratic body that would copy the activities of some existing bodies, including territorial financial authorities and intra-party audits and audit controls. According to the proposal, the operation of this institution should cost 15.5 million each year. CZK, it's gonna be 20,5 miles in the first year. Kč. However, this amount may be underestimated because only on salaries is the Authority to issue around 8,5 million. CZK a year. The explanatory memorandum estimates the number of newly created posts at 15, 10 employees and 5 elected members, but points out that the need for an increase in their number cannot be excluded. If you take the situation that is now where, let's say, the audit of the annual reports of the political parties by the Supervisory Committee is going quite smoothly, then the question is whether we really need such a new office. It is an illusion to think that the number of employees will be maintained to the extent indicated. Moreover, the law does not make it very clear how it will be with the position of this office in relation to the service law, so I also see quite a big problem there. Similarly, setting up the procedure for the election of the President of the Office strengthens the position of president in terms of the design of individual chambers. Of course, there can be various licenses and political hands and discussions about who will be proposed there. This will be the subject of political negotiations, so it is therefore an illusion to think that it will indeed be an independent office, more independent than, let's say, the Chamber of Deputies Audit Committee. It doesn't have to be. Dissatisfaction with the chosen person may also lead the Prime Minister to refrain from countersigning the President's appointment. The lengthy nomination process of other elected members of the Bureau by three institutions, namely the SAO, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and approval in the Senate may result in this office being often incomplete. This option is not treated in any way in the law, that is, if not all the seats in the office are occupied, how will it be done? The management reports of the parties are due to be submitted to the Office by 1 April and they must notify the Ministry of Finance by 31 May, which parties are not in good order. In addition, where irregularities are found, the Party shall have the right to correct the irregularity within a period which may not be less than 15 days. Since there are around 200 political parties and movements in the Czech Republic, it is not very real for the Office to be able to check all reports within two months. As a result of poor timing, some parties may also lose their right to a financial contribution from the state budget. The Office's decision on certain offences which may be fined up to 500 thousand. CZK, you can't appeal. As is apparent from the draft amendment to the Civil Service Act, the Office is intended as an independent institution whose organisational structure is determined by its Chairman. This means, as I mentioned earlier, a certain exception to the Service Act, which other regulators do not have. However, the powers and activities of other elected members of the Office do not differ in practice from those of the Office's ordinary staff, even though their salary is disproportionately higher, so there is a really great discrepancy in relation to the activities of other independent institutions or regulators. In this law, even paradoxically, there is an increase in contributions to political parties, because the law envisages the financial support of so-called political institutes, think tanks, established by political parties. The amount of this aid will be 45 million. CZK a year. However, the law is unable to prevent these institutions from influencing the course of the electoral campaign, since the influence of their activities before the elections cannot be avoided, so, of course, the state budget, through these political academies, say political institutions, can influence and prefer some parties from the point of view of the electoral campaign, which is the question of whether the funds should be spent on this. Furthermore, there is a lack of measures and a legal option to prevent the distribution of the contribution which exceeds 3 million. CZK per year, among more natural or legal persons. This should also be treated in the law. Another measure limiting contributions is the addition of the gift of man and the company owned by him. However, this measure cannot be enforced if the owner of the company cannot be identified, which is possible for public limited liability companies. Moreover, the law does not count on the possibility that there will be a change of ownership during the year, which would also mean a restriction on the donation of money to political parties for the new owner. The reminder we have is more. The law certainly does not address effective control mechanisms and instruments in relation to the activities of political parties and movements, it introduces a completely useless office where it is illusory to think that it will be independent of political representation. As I mentioned, it even increases the contribution of the state to political parties in the form of political academies. Therefore, in this context and in the light of clarification, in order to give room for parliamentary political parties to negotiate, I propose that this press be returned to the drafting process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u24	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. I'm registering his motion to return the petitioner for revision. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman. No, you're not logged in. I'm sorry, there's been a mistake. Another duly registered member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u25	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, I would divide this amendment, or attempt to amend the law on association in political parties and movements, into two headings. That one circuit is official, what the political parties are presenting today at their deadlines. I think that's enough control by the inspection committee. I don't think it's necessary to set up a special office. The second part, which is unofficial and which we are talking about, is the issue of, let's say, sponsoring political parties' campaigns, and that's the thing that should probably be the subject of that office's control. However, here I think that there is also no need to establish a special office, because I think it is a rather luxurious matter. What is really worth considering is banning the possibility of sponsoring political parties and electoral campaigns to those firms that have unclear ownership participation and, in my view, to companies with state ownership participation or public funds. I really think that if we want a transparent financing system, it would be traceable how much, for example, specific media, specific printed matter, they published advertising campaigns, how much money they collected for it, and that should then be comparable to data that are, for example, in political party accounts. I think that's the biggest problem. As far as the funding of political parties is concerned, I think that the current level is very high compared to what is in Europe and the European Union, so I would certainly not follow the path of increasing contributions to individual political parties and movements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u26	I thank Mr Hovorka. Now with priority rights, Minister Jiří Dienstbier. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u27	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would therefore respond to some of the first discussions that have been made here. First of all, I would like to respond to the discussion with the Office, because here it is repeatedly said that the establishment of a new office is an unnecessary matter, that it will be expensive, that, in principle, the existing mechanism for the operation of the House's Supervisory Committee is sufficient. First of all, and I think Jeroným Tejc mentioned it here, so it is one of the requirements of GRECO, this is a group of Member States of the Council of Europe for the fight against corruption, which quite strongly and repeatedly recommends that an independent audit institution be established for this area. Perhaps for comparison with existing control activities it is worth mentioning that this authority, in addition to its control activities, may also impose sanctions. The question is whether it would be appropriate to entrust sanctions for offences and administrative offences to one of the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, for example. I don't think that would be entirely happy. As far as the new office is concerned, there have also been discussions about the possibility of entrusting this already existing office, such as the Supreme Audit Office, where this contradicts the nature of its activities, because the Supreme Audit Office does not decide anything. It issues inspection findings and cannot lead with any administrative procedure, let alone to impose sanctions. Therefore, on the basis of the international recommendations of this evaluation of the nature of the activity, the Government has concluded that it is necessary for such an independent authority to be established. Its resemblance is designed by a very sledgehammer. The question is, isn't it a little too weedy? And there's another thing that has to do with why his decision-making is supposed to be one-instance and he's not allowed to appeal, virtually. degradation, so that the capacity to conduct these proceedings should be at all, with the fact that, of course, there is a possible review in the administrative justice system. So the other ones in the instance quotation marks are available here. There has been mention of the abuse of legal entities for the distribution of gifts and the question of limits. The $3 million limit is a compromise, achieving what was possible. I personally believe that much stricter limits on financial donations would be appropriate here. Jeroný now mentioned the amount of 150 grand. I can imagine 50,000, 100,000, 150,000, somewhere in this order. In some countries such an adjustment is based on some multiples, usually average wages. With the fact that it is based on the fact that, as we each have one vote in the elections, we should have the same opportunity to influence political events with our financial contributions. And that just that someone is significantly more entertaining shouldn't give him the privilege of taking over the entire political scene. I mentioned today at the anti-corruption conference the report by Czech Television last week, which reported that it is likely that the nomination of a Republican presidential candidate in the United States will be decided by several billionaires, on whose side he will take, so it will be obvious that he will have the best chance of succeeding in the subsequent political conflict with the democratic candidate. I think that, according to these principles, it should not be decided who obtains an elected office on the basis that several rich people will be able to influence political events in such a fundamental way. From this point of view, I think, of course, it would be ideal if there was a zero limit in the law for gifts from legal persons, because that does not correspond to the civil principle and indeed there is room for abuse. But that, of course, is a question of political decision as to how the limits will be set. This risk is limited to some extent in the bill's proposal by calculating the limits for the controlling and controlled person. That means if any one person, a political party donor, controls x other subjects, so that limit counts together. In my personal opinion, there is, of course, a great deal of room for tightening up this regulation so as to rule out the possibility of abuse even more, but the three-million-dollar limit is, of course, a huge shift against the current situation where there is no limit at all. And the last thing I would say at this point is the abuse of the political institutes that Mr Plíšek was talking about. I think the law is very strict in relation to political institutions. For one thing, financial support is a fraction of how much the state spends to support the activities of political parties, that is, it is probably not some crucial amount that could improve the funding of political parties for political activity. Moreover, the rules are actually very strict, because the bill requires the political institute to have a registered statute of public benefit, which already gives a very significant degree of public control. Then it expressly prohibits political institutions from giving any means to political parties, i.e. a gift from the political institute to the party is completely excluded. And beyond public benefit, they must publish all the results of their activities, where nature allows it. It is true that I can imagine that the political institute will hold a conference or seminar in the near future of the elections, which, of course, makes it possible to tematize something that is close to the political party. But on the other hand, it is not a prime political campaign, and it is true that it would not make any sense to restrict the political institute in such a type of activity. I have to say, everything that is attributed to these political institutes as an opportunity for circumvention already exists today. On the contrary, by identifying an entity as the political institute, the rules will become very strict. Since such organizations, some think tanks or similar, may already exist today, they can receive gifts and gifts that they receive today, in principle, without any restrictions and with minimal transparency, can already be used for political activity. The fact that such an entity becomes a political institute greatly limits it to the possibility of abuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u28	Thank you, Minister Dienstbier. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. And before the MP comes, I'll read the note. Mr Antonín apologizes for today's meeting from 19.15 for reasons of work, Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 19 a.m. today for reasons of work and Mr Adam also from 19 a.m. for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u29	Thank you for the floor. I am happy for the assurance of how the government was led by how best to comply with the comments that aimed at greater transparency of the political environment in the Czech Republic and the prevention of corruption. However, I would still like to hear some assurance that this office should not become some temporary or permanent repository for retired politicians and, if necessary, how to effectively prevent the abuse or camouflage of the use of funds by state, semi-state firms and other companies, for example, with the vague participation in the financing of political parties. That's what I think is absolutely crucial. And then the reason why it is proposed to increase the contribution to political parties and movements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u30	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u31	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I know that it is relatively late, but I will hold you back a little longer, because I have had quite a few attempts to model the financing of electoral campaigns. And it always turns out it doesn't work after all. A student of historical history knows that in the United States, they have been trying for about 200 years and are still unhappy with it. In Europe, depending on how long these countries have had democracy, and sometimes hundreds of years, sometimes only decades since World War II. And there's no such thing as complete satisfaction. I understand that the government coalition has taken over, and we have tried to do this in the last parliamentary term too, especially under the pressure of the Public Affairs, that it has undertaken some task to make the funding of political parties and political campaigns more transparent, and I apologise for speaking to both the press at the same time, but I think they are inseparablely linked and that they should basically be discussed almost in one debate, and I will definitely propose that both of them be discussed in the same committees. Because it doesn't make any sense for political parties to be only in the control committee and electoral laws only in the constitutional law committee. That both press should be discussed in both committees. I would even recommend that they have one guarantee committee, but it's not that big of a deal. [[19.10 hours]] As far as the office is concerned, we have just talked about the office many times in the discussion of the previous government coalition. I don't think that's a necessary condition. Frankly, the recommendation of the GRECO Member States of the Council of Europe, who you know what the Council of Europe is, I think I have experienced few more unnecessary organisations in my life than the Council of Europe, so that this should be a decisive criterion, does not seem to me. In this regard, I very much agree with Vice-President Filip, as I mostly disagree with him that the idea that a few bureaucrats control the functioning of the political party constitutional system seems extremely, extremely problematic to me. I think it should either remain in some form in the House, or the proposals that were here in the last parliamentary term, yes, let's give control functions to the Supreme Audit Office. Yes, it is not possible for the Supreme Audit Office to become a penalty point at the same time. So let's think of an independent penalty place to which only the Supreme Audit Office would pass on such incentives. This can be for example. some financial authority that would then evaluate, and there would only be a diversion. I see no reason to establish a special office to do so and to really create an institution that will sit down and model the political system in this country. That's the first remark from the Bureau. A second point to whether I think we're going to solve something fundamental. You know well that we have adopted some kind of restriction on presidential elections, especially on donors, transparency of transparent accounts, at least transparent donations and campaign spending. Do you feel that the presidential election was all the more fair? Or their results, in which some candidates remained with large debts, which were then miraculously pulled for them when they joined with their support to the winning candidate, show us that this is helpful? I fear that the presidential elections are a great example for us of how the limits of transparency of accounts and other things work at least intricately, and by the time these elections are held, there is no god left to question them. Just as much as the last thing I want us to be clear about. If we want to model political campaigns and political parties, we must - and that is exactly the problem that is still being solved in the United States. I think Minister Dienstbier is wrong if he is quoting that the Republican primary in the United States will decide a few billionaires, because there is a very hard restriction on individual donations that may come to the election campaign. The problem is that the money doesn't go directly to those political parties, but it goes to different subjects that support the candidate. And if we want to square the competition here, and let's try to do that, then it makes no sense to regulate only political parties, but also other entities entering the political campaign. Let me put it this way on the example of the previous elections. If the YES movement is running, he's giving some of his money, it's perfectly fine. But if his chairman also has a paid Vodňan chicken campaign that I don't know how much of Agrofert's money, and I don't care, it's Agrofert's right, but in which one of the leading candidates appears every night on TV, it's a very clear and harsh intervention in the election campaign, which, if we can't regulate in addition to how they're allowed to do political campaigns, the way they're allowed to do those economic campaigns to support individual candidates, so we didn't regulate anything at all, so we're just gonna get out of a transparent system of political parties and drive some system of completely different entities, which, for those or those reasons, whether the person is the owner, or maybe they like him, they'll support individual candidates or maybe even individual parties, parties and movements. I think this is the biggest problem that's really being solved all over the world. In the United States, they know very well what the so-called ones are. hard money and what soft money is. The more the hard money is regulated directly for the campaign, the more money flows in the soft ones, in the supporters. So if we're going to solve a problem at all, we have to at the same time... And now I'm not just talking about the ANO movement and his campaign. Various other entities that have entered political warfare, sometimes, say, supporting someone, but sometimes also slandering someone, including those entities that allow us to write today, such as the Reconstruction of the State and other blackmail organizations, which today allow us to write about how to regulate the law, and at that time they tried to make the elections, and I don't know whose money, but it would be interesting to know for whose money and to what extent, at the time, the elections were trying to influence dramatically, so unless we clarify these flows that are heading into the political system, then the major regulation of political parties merely restricts the political life and does not really improve the structure of democracy in the country. So I would just ask that when we think about these laws, we also think about what other and others may be involved in political campaigns, whether commercial entities or other so-called. independent, so-called apolitical movements or associations that you're trying to influence anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u32	I thank Mr Benda. I have three factual points. First of all, Mr Leoš Heger, then Mr Chalupa, after Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Heger is checking out. Mr Chalupa, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u33	Good evening, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up, the debate will certainly continue, we are certainly all aware of the gravity of the whole issue, but only a certain observation. In the morning, we were discussing the holiday here, and basically we stood up to it by not wanting to raise citizens of this country by making a law that basically tells people not to go to business centers on Saturdays and Sundays, because some say it's wrong. They should engage in sports or play games with children, we do not want to raise them in this way. In relation to this law - I believe that the citizen-volunteer is not a fool, and if he himself is able to judge that the party is politically funded, who is funding it, whether he is a villain, or whether he is a normal sponsor, that the citizen is able to judge and vote accordingly. Personally, I am in favour of not restricting it completely, because the voter is the right person to assess whether or not the party, the electoral program, its funding, the way it manifests itself, whether it corresponds to its nature and can vote for it or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u34	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With another factual remark, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u35	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, through you to your colleague Benda. I agree with most of the things he said that it should be even more regulation of sponsors and sponsoring than those political parties, but given the strength of those sponsors, it may be really important to consider the office. And it can't be the SAO for a simple reason: If the House elects its board and at the same time discusses its reports in the Audit Committee, then the SAO cannot be able to deal with the audit. That's just a classic conflict, and we'd only start one more problem. But I don't want to guess how much money goes through these unconfessed campaigns, but from this point of view, I think this office could make a pretty decent savings. You're still on your way to a colleague named Dienstbier. I'm glad we don't have a problem with the U.S. Republicans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u36	I thank Mr Gabal for his point of view. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip, followed by President Stanjura. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to quote the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, so that you know that I am quite serious about whether or not we want to move our constitutional system. The Constitution in Article 5 states that the political system is based on the free and voluntary establishment and free competition of political parties respecting fundamental democratic principles rejecting violence as a means of promoting their interests. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms states that citizens also have the right to establish and associate political parties and political movements. Article 3 provides how the exercise of this basic human political law can be restricted. In doing so, Article 22 of the Charter states that the legal regulation of all political rights and freedoms and its interpretation for use must enable and protect the free competition of political forces in a democratic society. If I translate it into how we're gonna work, we're gonna set up an office here, completely useless, looking for a building and money from the state budget. At the same time, we are enshrined in the constitutional system in how the annual financial report on that page is controlled by the formal and the aspect to be met by the negotiations. We have here financial authorities that can control any political party from the point of view of their tax system, that is, if we pay income tax, value added tax from that not the main activity, because of course the rest is subject to taxation and we pay them honestly. You will find this easily on the annual financial reports of the Audit Committee. I haven't heard the financial authorities say they can't go into political parties. Finally, auditors who verify the annual financial reports also describe how this or that was implemented. We have the Supreme Audit Office here. I understand that his President does not want to involve himself in another obligation of the Supreme Audit Office, but in any case, and I would refer to the Constitution and the Charter, in terms of doubt, here in the constitutional system in three powers, is the way to proceed when the political party is not willing to respect the constitutional system, either for financial or other reasons which, as I quote, may lead the political party to be limited to its rights in the free competition of political parties, and that is the right of the Government to propose to the Supreme Administrative Court to decide to dissolve such political parties. If we take the hierarchy of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and in this respect, I think I have been doing this long enough to know the procedures, I find in any case that this system of division of power is functional. And don't tell me it's not. On the basis of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, those who were unwilling to comply with the law on political parties, the Government submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court, on the basis of this resolution, a motion to abolish such a political party unless it intended to abolish itself and decided to do so. In this respect, it is clear that by creating a special office, we will move our constitutional system away from the fact that there is someone even more than the citizen who elects, and the Constitution says that all power comes from the people, and here all power will come from the way in which the office behaves. I likened it when we spoke with a fellow president of the ČSSD club to the fact that such authorizations in the countries we know have little and few. I would have to compare this to the way in which political parties are treated under the current regime in Ukraine. If you want a stabilized state, I can say that the Council of Elders, or, in fact, a group of six clergymen, who form the so-called Constitutional Court in the Islamic Republic of Iran and who decide whether anyone is allowed to run or not after a free decision to participate in a political party. If you're going to do that, don't go over it with the funny words that it might be useful for the office to do anything. Then tell me you're interested in destroying some political party. I'll understand, as my colleague Kalousek says. It's a legitimate opinion, but don't cover it up with anything else. Say directly that you are interested in restricting political freedom in the Czech Republic and, in particular, political freedom to associate in political parties. I see no place for another office that would be over the political parties in the Czech constitutional system. And if you want me to comment on this by not as long an educational interpretation as my colleague Kalousek here has tried in terms of gambling law, I can, of course, quote very short passages from Montesquieu through various theorists of the Czech constitutional system, the Czechoslovak constitutional system, Austrian and German or French. And I don't think it's necessary. We all know how to read. When we think about it, we can think about the specific text of what a constitutional system is, what a political regime of the state is, how it is formed and what it is based on in the system of division of power, which is, among other things, the basis of the Czech Constitution, which is our constitutional law No. 1/1993, I have no confidence in what you have shown here in the vote, that we will agree here at second reading that the law on political parties will correspond to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I am very concerned about how you are willing to change your vote in political clubs just because you want to discuss a standard that is not written in accordance with the Czech Constitution at all costs. That's why I'm joining the motion that fell here, I think, from my colleague Plíšek, to return the standard to the government to recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u38	I thank Vice-President Filip. I'm registering his motion to return to the government for revision. Mr Ivan Gabal, now with a factual remark, then with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u39	Thank you. I don't want to delay it, I've seen myself at a blues concert at the Lucerna Music Bar before, but I quote Karel Schwarzenberg, who is not here: "I haven't seen a communist defending a big capitalist in a long time."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u40	I thank Mr Gabal for his point of view. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u41	Thank you for the floor. I'm a mild optimist. I believe that together we will find the wording of the law for which the vast majority of Members and Members of the Chamber of Deputies could vote. That's why we didn't block the fact that the negotiations wouldn't start before the first reading. I think if this goes through the first reading today, the negotiations can begin. First of all, I'd like to make my first point about absolute independence. We say that the SAO is not independent because we are voting for the president or members of the college, which is proposed by the elected president of the SAO. We say that the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies is not independent because there are political parties. But we'll have an independent chief of office who will be chosen by the president, who will eventually go to the defence of his presidential mandate - and that already seems to us to be independent. And the two candidates will be sent by one and the other chamber of the Chamber of Deputies - and suddenly we're pretending that this is the independence. And a certified institution as a supervisory committee is not independent. [[19.30 hours]] In my view, the advantage in the inspection committee is that we all sit there and watch each other, which we will certainly not all have the head of the intended office or the members of that office and we will have to trust. The political influence just has to be there. If we wanted to play with such absolute independence, we would put some personal data into the fates of citizens over the age of 18 who are qualified for legal action and we would draw. And you'll admit that it's probably not the method that we should choose from this office. With these two laws, and I will also speak to both, we should all agree to make it enforceable, so that it is not just a declaration, if there are any sanctions, to make it enforceable. Now let's model our cases. Consider, for example, the majority choice - the Senate precincts, where electoral campaign spending is set. And if someone breaks it flagrantly and consciously, he's left with a mandate, isn't he? The proposal doesn't deal with that at all. My colleague, Marek Benda, correctly said, and remember how the presidential campaign was charged when the first time the limits were introduced. I think it was a farce, not that it was transparent. It was a farce. So if we want these laws to be effective, then we have to have enforceable, proportionate sanctions, now I'm not saying whether they should be higher or lower. And we have to say that, for example, in elections where there is a proportional system, such as the Houses, the parties are bonified several times by the state. I'm not saying it's wrong, because at the same time, some members of the government coalition say, "You need to cut back on your contributions from private sponsors." And other members of the government say: there is a need to limit contributions from the state. Well, as we can finally say, the political parties will have no contributions. We will ban state contributions and sponsors' contributions, and we will look for water chickens and other projects in which we will present ourselves, because political parties will not have a crown. Perhaps we could cancel the membership contributions, because if we're going to identify them all, it's not quite good. But I want to be serious. I don't want to be ironic. This means that the debate that awaits us will be about enforcement, about the adequacy of sanctions. I also believe from today's performances that we agree that this office is useless, that we will not implement it, and then we will find mechanisms to enforce the law. This year we tried out how it works today. We adopted a resolution here in May when we were discussing the annual reports, we came across an innovative approach by ANO colleagues who, on the one hand, already wrote income from the state of Members' contributions and did not tax them. And the Chamber of Deputies asked the Prime Minister to clarify the question. And I recommend that everyone read the alibis response of the head of the tax administration. I'm almost sure that if it wasn't for the government, but for the opposition party, the financial office would be able to control it, and somehow it would. The head of the tax administration writes to us, respectively. writes to the Prime Minister and he has sent us a reply to President Hamáček and he is certainly available to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, quotes us the law, then tells us that the tax administration is unable to decide whether or not the law on political parties has been violated, and that if it was not and it is the main activity, it is not, and if it was and it is a secondary activity, then tax. But he didn't solve a particular case. I proposed this resolution so that the rest of us would know whether this procedure is worthy of following and complying with the regulations or not. We haven't learned a thing. I would assume that the tax administration will say: for such an activity it is subject to income tax, yes or no, or check whether the party or movements have paid the tax and at the same time comment on the fact that it has exceeded the legal limit as it is possible, if it is legal that it was not VAT, and that it will either measure it or fail to measure it. That's not how we learned anything from our nice tax administration. They're probably still getting ready for the EET, and they don't have time to solve the problems that really arose. And by any chance, when we had a problem a year ago, which we even published, there was a check-up in the order of days. And it's okay. Even businessmen know this, if there is a problem that they may know about, in terms of cash flow, somewhere they are delayed with any payment, very often the audit authorities come in. Nothing here. So let's talk about the future, whatever we adopt, and I hope that a really enforceable law, so that it can't happen that we'll accept it, but then we'll face it after the election: elections are over, mandates are valid, we don't know what to do about it, if we deal with it, we'll ever get to it, etc. And that vodňanský kuřet, and I ask my colleagues not to take it personally as an attack on one movement. Anyone who wants to do so will find a rather extensive legal analysis in the annual report of the Grand Council, which means the Council for Radio and Television, in 2013. We had quite a serious debate about this on the electoral committee. And it's a thing that we just have to adjust. Otherwise, I agree with my colleague Marek Benda, there's no point. And then it ends up being those parties nothing and those supporters everything. No limits. No control. No transparency. And then let's have fun, and we're ready for that, about the practical stuff. We, who really have thousands of members and hundreds of members in cities, know how to collect membership contributions. Very often, the person in charge collects more than 5,000 crowns in cash, because people just bring it to him. They've been used to it for years, not all of them pay the bills. And all of a sudden, there's a problem. It has to go somewhere. And now, because of the little things we have to see too, there's not quite a draconian sanction. When we're talking about the balance of sanctions, if it's written that if it's forgotten, and now let's not forget that it's intentional, unintentionally stating the purpose of payment in a bank order, and now I don't know if there's supposed to be an election campaign or a billboard campaign or a billboard campaign for firm A, or a billboard campaign for firm A in October of the year, those sanctions are hundreds of thousands. I don't know if it's a thing that should just be brought to your attention. I think these things should be listed in the annual report so they can be checked. If the accounts are transparent, we can check whether the submitted public report agrees with the reality of what was going on in that bank account. So the debate will be detailed. For us, basically, I want to say that we are ready to participate in this work, to find some meaningful solution, but at the same time, I say that this must also be linked to the commercial message that has a political subtext. But I'm just saying don't overdo it. In municipal elections, there are a number of small businessmen running across the Republic. We probably don't want them to advertise in the local press: Buy windows with me. Have me fix your washing machine or your TV. I think we should focus on the most powerful medium, and that's television. Once again, let us not feel that we have to solve everything, other states have a problem with it. And then we're going to think about it for five, eight, ten years, and it's going to be one, two, three, four. The only thing that's gonna be regulated is the presidential campaign, and we've all seen the crappy results with the campaign billing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u42	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u43	Thank you. I have taken only factually, Mr President. I'm sure I can make it. I just wanted to respond to Mr Gabal, who wondered how a communist could defend large capital. Through the President, Mr Gabal, what are you wondering in a country where a communist with a positive illustration certificate has become a capitalist and not only a capitalist, he has become the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance thanks to your voice, your confidence. Those are the conditions you set up here. Excuse me, Mr Gabal, you remind me of a Škvorecký novel character who said, I will punish all communists, no one escapes me, I am in charge of collecting stamps in our party organization. These are the conditions you set. You are responsible for them by expressing your trust in this government. In doing so, you knew that it was against the laws of the Czech Republic. Well, don't be surprised now. That's all possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u44	Thank you to President Kalousek. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In front of me, all previous speakers, who are experienced political matadors, who mostly have, as I recall, those who were previous speakers, many years of practice, have gone through several electoral campaigns, and they certainly have their experience with it. You know, we're the first term here, and we're among the small political players. That may have given me a bit of a boost to express our opinion on this issue here as well. But first of all, I would like to take the liberty, of course, by means of the President, of Mr Bohuslav Chalupa of the ANO movement, who spoke of the wisdom of the electorate. I don't want to question their wisdom as they choose, but we know that people are influential. We know that they are influenced by marketing and advertising. If we imagine what our citizens are doing, how many times and repeatedly they're gonna fall for scumbags based on advertising, aggressive ads, I'd see it a little differently here. I can't argue with him, at all, but I can see that these people are influential. Now, forgive me, I'll be specific. After all, when your movement has succeeded as I have succeeded, I remember that the chairman of your movement has said: now I have shown them how to make marketing and peacock, because - and now I am going where I wanted to go - the political competition has shifted somewhat towards marketing competition, advertising campaigns, it is not so much about political programs, it is not about visions, credibility, it is about the number of promotional items, how many times, about the amount of goulash, cheap beer or some fried products, whether I say it quite specifically, and the political competition not that it has completely disappeared, but it is not in my opinion, you do not have to agree with me, in the very first place. The one on your note. I've been remembering things that haven't been said here a while ago. It was mentioned that this should concern sponsors, which are companies with state ownership. I think that it may not be just sponsors with state ownership at all, it may be completely private entities that, through various subsidies, receive money from the state budget. And I'm asking how those companies, the donors, separate the subsidies they've received from the state from the contributions paid to the political parties. That's inextricable! I don't know how it would separate. So if an entity receives subsidies and uses them to do business, generate its profits, and then sponsor some political entities, then does it need that profit when, in other words, it spends it on political involvement? It's also very complicated. Mr. Marek Benda here spoke of the fact that this is not easy. I'm sure we can agree on that. He mentioned the presidential campaign here, but I am from his words - luckily I did not understand it, we cannot resign from this problem and we should certainly try to move forward. I'm not optimistic enough to say we're gonna figure this out, or that I believe it's gonna work out, that's probably a very difficult nut we've got ahead of us, but to move it somewhere more real. Therefore we will propose, virtually. I certainly and I have mentioned this before, even some measure that would prevent or try to address it, so that even those who receive contributions from the state budget, subsidies, have a limited way of dealing with it. It would certainly contribute to addressing this issue by limiting the contributions. I was intrigued by what he said -- he's not here right now, at least I don't see him, Minister Dienstbier -- the political institute. This only led me to believe that the issue is much wider and that it does not have to concern only those political parties, only their sponsors, but also other institutions, those political institutions that have been mentioned here. It was also said here that it was the first reading, that the debate would begin. I will say frankly that I imagined that the discussion on this topic would start much earlier than before the first reading, much before this amendment of the law reached the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, it didn't. I don't have any information about anyone consulting us on this subject. Of course, I'm aware of our size, but that's not an argument. All the more I believe that after first reading, the debate will begin across all the parties involved in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u46	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u47	Thank you. I just want to assure Mr Fiedler by your means, Mr President, that even though we are a little bit bigger, and I agree that this is not an argument, no one has spoken to us either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u48	I thank Mr Kalousek for his point of view. Mr Fiedler was the last duly enrolled in the debate. Now, with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel a bit of a conflict of interest from the point of view that I am actually the chairman of the body that is now checking the annual financial reports of the political parties. I have to confirm the words of President Stanjura that this year we encountered a big problem and I don't know how to deal with it. I've dealt with it twice for now by interviewing the Minister of Finance, and in my case, it was about VAT, but the logic of the Minister of Finance, when he answered me in writing for the last interview, is unwavering. The YES movement has invoiced, but since business prohibits the law on association in political parties, it is simply not a business and we will not pay anything. That's logic. A political party can't do it, we do it, but because it's not allowed by law, it doesn't count that way. I'd like to ask you some questions about the translator. In the overviews - that is why I wanted to see the overviews that political parties will present. Imagine that as a political party representative, you will then be reporting all the services you have purchased, from whom you have purchased the service, and you will be stating whether or not the person who provided the service is a member of the party or is not a member of the party. You're gonna get it wrong and you're gonna get the penalty. I don't know how this office is going to find out who it is or isn't a member of the political party, but I can see my colleague Chalupa buying somewhere in the paper shop for the ANO office in his county and asking the businessman if he's a member of the party that he'd have to report it to the political party's annual financial report. That's all the details the Ministry planned. That's why I wanted everything to be reported to the Home Office to tell us. We're talking about big political parties here. These are the ones that are here in the Chamber of Deputies. It sounds like there's 200 political parties. It's not like that. There are 250 political parties! We have absolutely no information on 100 political parties because they did not give up the annual financial report this year, so we do not know anything about them as far as funding is concerned. Of the 150 that they have surrendered, dozens of them show zero revenue, zero spending. I can see now that all these zero-income political parties are going to be subject to the law, and that they are going to create x transparent accounts. How will they show it? I just can't imagine it. [[19.50 hours]] In my opinion, this bill is, as my colleague Filip said, to limit the competition of political parties - I do not see the great ones, let them show them, but the small ones. And I have one more comment about what we've been dealing with this year. It has expanded, and in that proposal, it must not provide donations to a legal person owned by more than 10% of the state, municipalities, associations of municipalities. Well, yeah, but we've seen an increase in granddaughters' gifts this year, that is. from companies which have been set up by, for example, organisations established by municipalities. And in the opinion of the lawyers, it doesn't apply anymore. Was it the legislator's intention for granddaughters to provide gifts to political parties and movements? Those are my questions to the translator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u50	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one reports, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the applicant's final words. I beg the Minister and his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u51	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place here. On behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, I can promise that we will now be ready to debate with all the political actors in the committee meeting. We have been very lengthy and difficult to discuss this compromise within the coalition councils. And what we are putting forward today is a compromise that we have all been able to identify with and come forward with before you. Of course, this does not mean that we cannot parametrically modify it and that even the opposition has no right to come up with an opinion that can simply prevail. Standard democratic procedure. As far as individual political actors are concerned, we will look for a way to least harass the political scene. On the other hand, we are clearly aiming to ensure that the financing of political parties, all of them, is transparent and bearable to all political actors on the Czech political scene and does not restrict political competition. So we are ready for a debate in the committees, we are ready for a debate with all the political parties in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u52	I thank the Minister for his final word. The rapporteur and his final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just sum it up. I will not say how many Members have spoken because I have not counted them. I have just noted in the debate the Minister's promise to deliver a draft complete decree to the Supervisory Committee before the committee meeting. First of all. Then, twice in the debate, there was a motion for a re-evaluation and one motion for a commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u54	Thank you and we will now vote on these proposals. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will vote on Mr Plíšek's proposals, Vice-President Filip, to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the proposal by Mr Plíšek and Filip to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 111, 130 Members are registered, for 52, against 64. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the guarantee committee's commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest another command to the committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I therefore begin voting on the commandment of this motion to the Supervisory Committee as a committee of guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 112 vote, 130 Members and Members registered, for 129, against 1. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the inspection committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? Mr. Ambassador Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u55	Have a good night. Thank you for the floor. I think the law has something to do with the law that's gonna come after him, that is. with the electoral law, so I think he should be just like those electoral laws on the constitutional law committee. So I propose a transfer to the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u56	The Constitutional Committee. Anyone else have a suggestion? Mr. Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u57	Thank you. The Committee on Petitions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-008-049.u58	The Committee on Petitions. If no one else has a proposal, I will vote on Mr Chvojka and Mr Laudát's proposals. So first of all, we will vote on the motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 113 vote, 131 Members and Members of Parliament, 131 Members and Members, against no one. Furthermore, Mr Laudát proposed the commandment to the Committee on Petitions. Initiating vote on the commandment to the petition committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 114 vote, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 32, against 50. The motion was not accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been attributed to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee and further to the Constitutional Law Committee, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item number
