ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u1	48. Government bill amending certain electoral laws and other related laws / House print 568/ - first reading The Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec will also present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly mention the bill amending some electoral laws and other related laws. The objective of the bill is to ensure greater transparency in the financing of electoral campaigns, particularly in the context of financial, public and factual support by third parties. The bill submitted is in accordance with the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic. The essence of this proposal lies in a uniform regulation of the rules on electoral campaigns and their financing by law governing elections to Parliament, the election of the President of the Republic, the election to regional councils and the election to the European Parliament. The definition of the electoral campaign and its timing are introduced, the obligation of candidate bodies to set up a transparent account for the financing of the electoral campaign and the control of the financing of the electoral campaign is conferred on the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements. This office should be established by an amendment to the Act on Association in the political parties that we discussed before this point. In addition to the proposed legislation on electoral campaigns and their financing, the contribution of political parties to electoral costs from 15 000 is increased in elections to the Chamber of Deputies and elections to the European Parliament. 19,000. Crowns. The increase is responsible for inflation over the period since the introduction of this contribution in the past. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u3	I thank the Minister and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. He basically presented it all in substance by the Minister, so maybe I will just repeat firstly that this press is related to the previous one, because the previous one regulates political parties in general in some way and this one deals with elections and election campaigns, somehow unifies the election campaign, introduces a transparent bill in the election campaign, introduces - and it is very important to me that promotion and agitation in the media and on billboards must contain information about contracting entities and processors. Political parties should keep accounts of the financing of the electoral campaign, within 90 days of the election results being announced, political entities or candidate bodies should report on the financing of the electoral campaign and, of course, they should also have websites on which funding should be available, i.e. incoming or outgoing payments that will come or go to the political party. The press is also concerned with the oversight of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and the Movement, which will in some way control the course of the election campaign and whether the candidates comply with what they have under the law. And, of course, the office is not conceived as toothless, i.e. may impose penalties for offences and administrative offences. These sanctions are not entirely low, so there is also a certain enforcement of the obligations imposed by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Chvojka, and I am opening a general debate in which Mr Martin Plíšek is signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u6	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I wish you a good evening. If the debate on both prints were merged, how it was supposed to happen, I wouldn't be here again. Of course, some of my previous speakers spoke to both the press at once. Here I will mention three basic problems for which, as in the previous press, logically, I will propose a return to the press to prepare the petitioner. First of all, the list of political party sponsors won't be possible to check before the elections, even though the government proposal tells us a little different. Because the law determines that the parties must publish all their sponsors three days before the elections, which is supposed to allow voters to decide on their preference based on this fact. Of course, this time may not be enough to verify the truthfulness and completeness of the list of sponsors. More transparency would be achieved if the political party had an obligation to publish the gift after receiving it. That means, here we see a clear effort to move this thing forward beyond the term of the election itself, and the three-day deadline is really very short, and it doesn't solve the matter. Furthermore, the defined term of the electoral campaign under this proposal may not include and far from cover all the costs of the electoral campaign. Under this law, or the draft electoral campaign begins on the day of the election deadline, which will allow not to include in the electoral campaign account services that have been negotiated or paid before that date. Of course, ordering billboards and other advertising sites for the campaign is necessary for more than a year in advance. This means that there is a whole series of expenditures and resources that this law does not have at all. And then, of course, it is already my colleagues in the previous press mentioned the possible use of funds that cannot be described as part of the electoral campaign under this law, even though they have a great influence on the election campaign and influence that election campaign. The law does not restrict the presentation of candidates or prominent representatives of political parties and movements before the elections through media and means of communication which cannot be described as an election campaign under this law. The costs of using these funds will then not be reflected in the amount of the electoral campaign that the law limits. A number of times here, the example of which is, of course, an advertisement for a water-chinese chicken, in which the current finance minister Andrej Babiš appeared before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. So if this press doesn't get the accompanying advertising of politicians, business groups that sponsor political parties and representatives of these companies, it's just a game of greater transparency. That is why, of course, I am also making a proposal in this case for the completion and return of the petitioner's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u7	Yes, we will vote on your proposal after the end of the debate. I am asking if anyone else is reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur? Not either. So we will now proceed to the vote on the proposal - the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Before I vote, I'll have you all checked out. Please sign up with your cards again. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 115, to which 120 are registered, for 42, against 64. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote and I shall initiate it. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is the vote with order number 116, to which 124 are registered, for 123. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. I'm asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss. Yes, Mr. koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u8	In order to remain consistent with the debate on the preceding point, I propose a discussion in the control committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-009-048.u9	Is there another suggestion? It's not like that. I therefore begin the vote on the commandment of the next committee, this time to the inspection committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 117, to which 124 are registered, for 122. I am of the opinion that this press has been ordered to the inspection committee as the next committee. I end the first reading of this proposal. The next item we're going to be looking at is point 52, that's
