ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u1	32. Mr David Kádner's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended / House print 145/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 145/1. I ask the appellant, Mr David Kádner, to present the proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be able to speak after a year and submit a bill amendment. In view of the ever increasing aggression of the perpetrators, there is logically a question of extending the possibility and scope of so-called necessary defence, resulting historically from the applicable legal framework, in particular Article 29 of Law No. 40/2009 Sb. Perpetrators no longer take into account when entering private premises when they are present. In addition, we must take into account a wide range of ways to arm ourselves and, last but not least, the element of surprise that the perpetrators have on their side. In the case of this amendment, it is the so-called principle of "my house, my castle." Its main purpose is to ensure a higher level of security for authorised persons in legitimately used places secured against unauthorised entry, when establishing sufficient legal certainty in particular for persons of potential defenders. It should be stressed that it is by far not only the possible use of a firearm, but the general use of the term necessary defence, for example through the use of a weapon in the widest possible context. In such a case, the attacker takes the risk that if he causes a justified fear of endangering the health or life of an entitled person, he will defend himself effectively, but without any penalty from the State. Although it can be said that such a risk is always taken by the attacker even in the current regulation, when there is a certain legal uncertainty of the defender. The amendment of the law should then serve to recognise the defence as necessary in a situation where the necessary defence would not be necessary in an unprotected space. In particular, it is the formulation of a "directly threatening or lasting" attack where, according to the defenseman, modifications are being made, for example, in his home, he must first wait for the attacker to be directly attacked if he does not want to risk criminal sanctions. A suitable example can also be used, for example, through the internal door to the attacker, who has already penetrated the protected area and which is currently not considered necessary defence. At the same time, the relevant text of the amendment proposal addresses the question of the attack being waged against another person present and the defender would intervene in its behalf. The text of the amendment proposal also addresses the possibility of possible abuse, where it requires the so-called legitimate concern that existing criminal practice means, for example, threats of violence. For example, such concern could not in any way be involved in the conduct of defenses at a very high distance or against a fleeing attacker. The relevant amendment proposal does not directly address the characteristics of the premises, whether the house, apartment, garage or fenced property. It can be concluded that on all these items of the demonstration list of places in question, similar defences could occur as well as on others. It is then necessary to entrust the system of courts of the Czech Republic as the only institution called upon for such interpretation to decide whether or not this is a necessary defence. The current legal development, within the meaning of the relevant caselaw, is developing in a similar direction, namely increasing respect for the rights of the defender, and the purpose of the bill's proposal is not to hinder or argue with such developments, but rather to sufficiently specify it to the general public, both defensemen and assailants. In the event of the adoption of the relevant amendment of the law, not only higher awareness of potential defenders can be expected, but also, in particular, a more thorough consideration of the consequences of potential perpetrators, where protection of life and health is always a priority over the protection of property. The text of the proposed amendment corresponds to similar legislation by many developed countries, including members of the European Union. So much for showing this novel. Now allow me to conclude a few sentences. I would like to ask you to support this amendment of the necessary defence law tabled by me. Current judicial practice leads to the fact that a person facing the imminent threat of a physical attack cannot actively face this attack in his own home without exposing himself to the high risk of a conviction for so-called disproportionate defence. On the contrary, we think that defending an aggressor who threatens us at home should not in most cases be declared disproportionate. Not in vain, many developed countries follow the proven motto "my house, my castle," which also includes the right to defend their homes, if they deem it appropriate, to defend themselves with a weapon in their hand. This proposal was prepared for two years and was consulted with legal and security experts, such as the LEX association - the arms rights association, the law firm Solil, Fiala and spol. and the Solomon Society. We are merely specifying the defenses in our dwelling. The necessary defenses led outside their homes remain unchanged. I must also point out that this proposal has strong support across the public, as several thousand signatures have been collected in just two months on a petition concerning this amendment. I think in the interests of every citizen, it is for him to have the right to defend himself in his home, regardless of whether the defense was adequate or not. I would like to ask you once again to support this proposal and release for second reading for discussion in the committees in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Bronislav Schwarz. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u4	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I will start a little differently from the rapporteur. I understand my colleague Kádner, but I also have to tell you before I start speaking as rapporteur, that I think that the extreme emergency and necessary defence from practice is being worked out in our country. The law that has evolved, and the practice, I think, has shown that experience. Unfortunately, the media image of what's happening in our country, and what some news servers sometimes play, what happened, and they always rewind it to each other, so they're worried that our extreme emergency and necessary defense just doesn't work. It's not like that. I'd like to lead you in the right direction a little bit. I don't want to spoil his work, but I think that's the thing that's clearly set. The fact that cops or security agencies don't know how many times, please, and I know it from practice what an extreme emergency is and what it is necessary to defend, how to use, how to use, the media, but unfortunately some of our colleagues and people who are police are in security agencies are haunted by the fact that when you're on a person who's in my backyard with a baseball bat, I'm gonna take a gun to lock me up for it, that's a different thing, please. I would like to say that I understand my colleague, but I have to say this briefly as rapporteur. I would like to say that, in my opinion, the proposal tabled is not mentally bad, but I fear that it results from another legal system. In our legal system, this amendment could cause confusion and various legal opinions in solving specific cases. Furthermore, I think that the current legislation of the necessary defence and extreme emergency is sufficient, because even in more complex criminal matters, a clear conclusion can be reached, without greater legal considerations, on the point of attack, on the qualifications of the deed and on the penalty. As rapporteur, I would like to say that the practice currently talks about the fact that we have the Institute of extreme emergency and necessary defence. It can be clearly used and the law enforcement authorities know and move on this thin ice. It's not easy, but I really think that the drafter's proposal would make the ice even thinner and decision-making even more thin. Guilt and punishment. I'd just like to conclude, I've scored four points. They're more thoughtful for lawyers. There is also missing, for me, and I cannot explain how, according to the petitioner, a police officer, a prosecutor and a judge, the entry into the premises would be handled by a task force - here I see the clear concern of the owner, the suspect, the entry of a participant in an accident that comes in shock to ask for help and raises concerns, such as the entry of a sportsman in the event of a loss of sports equipment and arouses concern. It can also never be forgotten that there are persons among us properly armed, armed, and can be in a bad mental state, which has already happened. So I would reverse you as a rapporteur, but a person from practice asked: Let's not beg that some prosecutors, some policemen can't qualify or are afraid to qualify or tell people what it really is an extreme emergency, what it is necessary to defend. Let's not beg for the fact that sometimes the media just pulls out and says what's appropriate for them to be concerned that there is no extreme need and necessary defense. But that is why I have to make a proposal - I am terribly sorry to ruin his job, I know that my colleague has been trying for several years - but to make a proposal to reject this bill, because we have a very extreme need and necessary defence in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and it works when he wants to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Just for the record, I say that the motion to reject must be heard in the general debate that I will open. So I am opening up a general debate. I note with priority the right of President Okamura and then four Members - Mr Ondráček, Lang, Fiedler and Karamazov. So, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, this law that we will discuss has already aroused resentment among many, as we have heard here, even with the representative of the government coalition. The fundamental objection, slightly elevated, is the concern that people should not start killing visitors with impunity, i.e. that the strengthening of the institute of necessary defence should not be abused. In our case, however, there are concerns, virtually. in this case, however, concerns about any abuse are odd. The text of the proposed paragraph is precise in this respect and allow me to briefly read it and demonstrate that it does not bear the increased risks of abuse. The text of the bill reads: This is a necessary defence if the defence is directed towards a person who has been wrongfully brought into a foreign dwelling using violence or threats of imminent violence or who overcomes an obstacle intended to prevent the emergence of such action if the defender may be concerned about the risk of life or the health of his or her or any other person present. Thus, in principle, in order to be a necessary defence according to the proposed amendment from the pen of the Dawn Club member, someone must enter you by force, pry the door open or force you to open the door with a gun in your hand. All this must and will always be the subject of evidence, and therefore this institute cannot be used for example. In case of a regular visit, or if you accidentally walk into someone's backyard. The conduct of the perpetrator under the bill we are discussing here must cause a legitimate fear of life or health. So, yes, you can also shoot a defenseless thief in quotes, but he must first infiltrate you, conquer and overcome the obstacle, and then the risk is on the side of the attacker, which, frankly, seems quite right to me. This paragraph also gives no one the right to shoot a fleeing thief from behind, because a fleeing thief does not actually raise in quotes a legitimate fear of life threatening. What should also be said here is that such a law is needed in the Czech Republic and that it is clearly missing here. That is why I was very unkindly surprised by my previous speaker's proposal that we should not be dealing with this law at all. Perpetrators are robbing houses and apartments in the presence of owners nowadays, and I know from practice examples when thieves who were surprised by the owner murdered owners for a dandruff worth several hundred crowns. We read about these cases quite commonly and often from the media. For example, my friend was robbed this summer, virtually. already last summer twice in a row and once even in his presence. The likely perpetrators in the vicinity are known members of an inadaptable family robbing houses in nearby villages as on a running belt, and many of its members were punished for battery and two even for the murder of a retired man whose cuckoos were stolen for CZK 300. All this took place in a small village in Svitavsko in a house between the hills and this friend of mine has a six-month-old baby and a wife at home. And I ask - how will you sleep with a six-month-old baby in a house 15 km from the nearest police station, in a place where there is hardly a telephone signal, which I can confirm from my own experience, and where will help you arrive in the first twenty minutes, if you ever call? How are you gonna sleep knowing that a common pickaxe is gonna break down any door or window and, better yet, some bum, worse than anything, capable of recidivism? And that the statistics say that within a year it will even be at least twice and that the police are not able to help you in these specific cases, because when you call the emergency line, you can reach a dozen kilometers away from the county town where the operator doesn't advise you, and the police themselves, if they leave suddenly, they don't know where, because when you live somewhere in the hills, you don't just know your way around, but the police don't often even have navigation in the car. At such moments, dear colleagues, you will begin to wonder how to protect yourself from crime. [[18.00 hours]] After all, I suspect the vast majority of you have alarms at home. And not only at home, but you also have alarms secured by your own car. Or cost us our taxes twice. Once we pay for security, we are entitled to it, and then we pay for it again, because of course it doesn't work here, and crooks and crooks are outnumbered in our state, and decent people are in the minority. Thus, if the state cannot effectively protect a citizen from a thief, then in our view it has no right to forbid him from defending himself in justified cases. Since the risk of abuse of defense is minimal in this bill, we need to make it clear that if we are to vote, the risk of abuse of necessary defence in favour of victims of a crime is less evil than when there is a law today, more precisely the law abused in favour of criminals. A decent citizen must feel at all times that the state and society are in defence of his rights on his side and that he is not a defenseless hunting animal for criminal elements, which is unfortunately the current state. All you have to do is watch when we go home, so whoever takes the subway, look at the women protecting their purses. Unlike other crimes, home robberies are committed with some reason, and the perpetrators are premeditatedly preparing for them. This preparation should include and must include the knowledge that, on the contrary, they are mortally endangered, undefeated, harmful animals when they enter a foreign dwelling. Please, dear colleagues, think and consider supporting this law. Let us discuss this proposal in more detail in the second reading, because each one of us - and everyone here pays the word - may one day find himself in a situation that such a perceived institute of necessary defence can either prevent or at least make it easier for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u7	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Thank you to President Okamur. And before we continue the debate, I will read the apology that has come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Petr Kudela apologizes from today's meeting at 6:30 pm. From 18.45 pm Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. From 6:00 p.m. he apologizes to the end of today's meeting - now I don't see who, without signing. Well, let's check it out. Mr Michal Kučera from 18 to 20 and Mr Rais from 17.30 to 21.00 for work reasons. And the President of the House apologizes today until the end of the negotiations. We will continue the debate. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček is now in office, and before the next one is prepared, my colleague, I will ask the rapporteur, Schwarz, if he is joining the debate. Mr rapporteur, are you reporting for the debate? Because you have been lecturing in your intelligence report a proposal that must be made in the debate, so do you report? Yes. So, no, not yet. Mr Ondráček, Mr Lank will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. I would like to pause a bit with my previous speaker, because from what has been said, I felt a little bit that I do not live in the Czech Republic, but maybe somewhere in the Bronx or somewhere in another state where there is no law at all and we do not have the Police of the Czech Republic or anything else. I don't think we're that bad yet. As far as the necessary defence is concerned, and the colleague also mentioned extreme distress, I think that these two institutes, as circumstances excluding unlawfulness, are quite well anchored in Czech criminal law and have a long history. [[Permanent noise in the House.]] When you read the current text of the necessary defence in Section 29 of the Criminal Code, you will read that the necessary defence is an act of a different criminal offence, which has been averted by someone directly threatening or continuing an attack on interest protected by criminal law and is therefore not a criminal offence. The negative definition then says that this is not a necessary defense if the defence was clearly an disproportionate method of attack.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u9	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'll ask the House for peace. If you want to have discussions on another subject, please in the foyer. Let the Member explain this legal institute so that we can all think about it. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u10	On the contrary, the proposed third paragraph defines what is necessary defence, and it is that it is a defence directed against a person who has trespassed through violence, threats of imminent violence or overcomes an obstacle which is intended to prevent the intrusion, if such action may create a legitimate fear of endangering life or health or any other person present in the defence. In addition to the shortcomings put forward by this proposal as a legitimate concern - we do not have a legitimate concern about our criminal law, we have a reasonable concern. For example, in criminal acts of general provisions 353 and 354. We could fix this. I believe that the presentation of this amendment should just say what the promoter said: my house, my castle. The proposed amendment fundamentally changes the circumstances excluding the unlawful conduct of defending its dwelling. One of the basic features of the necessary defense is completely disappearing, an attack lasting or threatening, which is directed against a natural person, i.e. a defender or another person. In this case, there is property. It is also not clear how the restriction would be applied that the necessary defence must not be clearly disproportionate to the method of attack. My colleague Schwarz said some examples. For example, he spoke of an intervention unit entering the dwelling. Here, of course, she enters rightly. But the person who's at the door doesn't know that, because the police are using, say, coercive means to overcome an obstacle designed to prevent entry into such a dwelling. The residence under our criminal law isn't just our house, our apartment, our cottage, but it's also a hotel room that I'm going to be enjoying for a specific day. I'm gonna defend myself like that when the cleaning lady walks in there in the morning because I didn't put my sign on the door, and I'm gonna be after, say, some fabulous party? And while I'm leading a way of life, I'm gonna worry, who's really hitting on me? Dear colleagues, colleagues, such a broad defence of dwellings is not necessary in the conditions of the Czech Republic and undesirable excesses cannot be excluded. I therefore propose to reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u11	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček for his speech and we will continue the debate with Mr Martin Lank's speech. Mr Karel Fiedler will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Government, colleagues, colleagues, first of all, let me introduce you to the results of the SANEP survey on health and property protection. According to this survey, 79 percent of people in our Republic believe that existing legislation protects criminals rather than their victims. Around 81 percent of people believe that our fundamental rights to the protection of life and property are not sufficiently protected. And not in vain! Look at what's happening in our country! Look at the locations outside the big cities. Take a look at the criminal situation in Prague, Ostrava, Ústí nad Labem. Lately, it's hard to name a region of the Czech Republic in which you might feel completely safe. It is no wonder to people that they are indignant with countless examples in their neighborhood, when someone was ambushed, robbed, raped, without a chance to defend themselves successfully. [[18.10 hours]] The city police are mostly dedicated to everything but the security situation in the streets. Honor to exceptions. Instead of preventing theft, robberies and the use of addictive substances by young people, police officers are only fond of booting and handing out other petty fines. But when the time really comes when we need a lawman behind our backs, he's usually not there. While the individual city police in many cases resemble a rather welcome way of strengthening the city and community budget, our state police often do not have enough resources for their basic operation. Police maids are canceled, driving times to the crime scene are so long that they aren't even officially established, and the citizen is often left in a critical situation rather than just relying on himself and himself. Unfortunately, at that moment, neither is our right behind his back. People know and people feel it. And they have a choice. Either I stand obediently and wait for the wound, either I walk past the victim and act like I'm looking aside, or I stand up to the crime. But I won't have time to think about my step. There will be no time to call a lawyer to consult him on the adequacy of my decision. Such a decision must be made within a fraction of a second. And, as the sociological survey mentioned earlier, our citizens want to have the right to do so. Let us remember that our culture does not allow crime and violence. Our movies, our books, little children's fairy tales, all of this is based on the example of positive heroes who weren't afraid to get in the way of crime. And let's face it, what we admire for the vast majority of these heroes would be considered disproportionate defence in the eyes of a common Czech judge. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the law changes only very partial provisions in very specific cases. It is, in fact, the introduction of the principle of my house, my castle, which is a principle concerning only those people who have been attacked at home. But it's the principle, and it's the social mood. A thief, a robber, a murderer, and a rapist must know that his victim has the right to defend himself and that he will not be embarrassed to use his right without fearing the consequences. He needs to know that he's breaking the law and he's going to suffer the consequences that only he can and only himself can bear. [[with emphasis]] And this amendment is one of the first steps to make that happen. Therefore, I humbly ask you and I for her support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u13	Thank you, Mr Lank. Before Mr Fiedler, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u14	Thank you. I have to respond to a previous speaker who told the city police that municipalities are improving their budgets by their activities by the city police. This isn't true. It's not true. If a colleague wants, he can ask the mayors who are sitting among us, possibly. I shall submit statistics of the Ministry of the Interior on municipal police, where these data are provided. The municipalities do not improve their budgets thanks to the city police. It's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u15	With priority rights, Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u16	Good evening again. Colleagues, colleagues, I must also say that it is a pity that Mr Lank, through the Vice-President, has said real nonsense. Again, it just confirmed what I'm saying. We need to know the extreme need, we need to know the necessary defenses, we need to know how the city police are supposed to function, how they work, the city police budget needs to be known, and we need to know exactly what it wants to say. 'Cause that's how you get worried that the streets are just being stolen, robbed, ambushed, and that the police aren't doing anything. I'm sorry, but that's what it sounds like. I would like to ask you again: Please, if we are speaking on a subject of expertise, let us not be two hundred specialists in the necessary defence in extreme need. Let's listen to those who have had a little bit of experience in their lives, let's talk to lawyers, so we don't do more evil than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u17	Thank you to the rapporteur. And Mr Martin Lank will outrun his party colleague with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u18	Thanks again for the word. I have to respond. I totally understand colleagues who are from practice and have the knowledge. I don't want to get involved in a professional debate here. Actually, I'm not even saying that maybe the city police aren't working, or they're just for the purpose of filling the city's cashiers and cashiers. The problem is, we can tell each other here, you experts know that, but unfortunately, the public sees it that way. And if the public feels that way - I repeat again that 81 percent of people think that laws protect criminals rather than them - then something is just wrong! And I think this amendment can at least give them the feeling that if the city or state police aren't there any more, then at least somebody won't be dragging around for years after the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u19	I thank Mr Lanka for his time and now Mr Karel Fiedler for his proper application in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u20	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, and I dare say that even according to the majority of the Czech Republic's inhabitants, this is a sad reflection of our rule of law, when one is condemned for disproportionately defending himself against someone else who has trespassed upon him. It was said from my previous speakers that experts knew it. Mr Schwarz, a colleague of Mr Schwarz, is certainly knowledgeable in this field, as well as Mr Ondráček, a colleague of Mr Ondráček. But this law does not solve the problem of these things of knowledgeable Members. This is a law designed to address the problems of citizens who are not ready for them in crisis situations, and maybe every second will be decisive for them. The most frequently repeated thesis of politicians preventing legislative change is that everything is actually in order today, which we have heard here. That we have independent courts to decide what is and what is not an unnatural defense. [[disproportionate?]] Yes, we have courts, and we also have judicial errors, damaged citizens, who unfairly serve their punishment for defending themselves and their family in their homes from e.g. a drugged rapist who came here to rob himself, for example. to your drug or just two hundred crowns per bottle of alcohol. And that person doesn't care. Dear colleagues, today we have the opportunity to put Czech legislation in order and set it up at last in favour of the defendant, and not as before in favour of the attacking aggressor or thug. Although the government is trying to alleviate tensions in excluded localities, it is doing very slowly. We all know it's a very long run. I do not claim from this place that everything will be resolved if we put a gun or a gun in each citizen in the Czech Republic that it will be safe here. Such a short-term view seeks to induce politicians to prevent a change in the current legislative framework. All I'm saying is that a normal decent citizen has a right to a weapon for his own self-defense - or only for his own self-defense. And this applies not only to seniors and women who are at the mercy and mercy of rapists. To what has been said here, I would just say: I do not think that if this legislation were to happen, there would also be a change in the number of weapons among the population. I think the attitude of those who have already acquired it will remain the same as that of those who have not yet acquired it. The proposed amendment addresses the general use of the term necessary defence, not only the necessary use of the weapon. So this is about the term necessary for defense. It doesn't necessarily have to be about using a weapon. [[18.20 hours]] In my opinion, it is necessary to induce such a situation where the feeling of support in the law will have just the defending of the attacker and not the assailant. Let us put ourselves in this situation that there are not citizens who can meet this, it can meet any of us, legally qualified as rapporteur or fellow Member Ondráček, and they will not have time to think about what is right, what is wrong, they will not have time to call a lawyer, a lawyer. Every moment will be crucial to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u21	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr Karamazov will now take his word as the last duly signed-up Member to this debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kádner's proposal concerns an adjustment to the necessary defence in the Code of Criminal Procedure. We have already heard here that the current amendment in § 29 para. 1 states that an offence which is otherwise averted directly by an imminent or ongoing attack on an interest protected by criminal law is not a criminal offence. The second paragraph further states that this is not a necessary defence if the defence was clearly disproportionate to the method of attack. As we can see, this is a rather general definition, which may include a number of different situations. In practice, we can hear very often about cases where the person or the person defends himself against the armed robber who broke into her home. It is often very difficult for a victim of such an act to recognize the real danger that she is in danger of. The perpetrator may be a common thief, who only has a weapon in his hand, or who, on the contrary, has the intention of harming or killing persons in the house. In such cases, I am clearly in favour of protecting the person against whom the crime is directed in the widest possible way. On the other hand, we can argue that the case law of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic has seen some development in this regard in favour of the victims of crimes. In that light, the addition of § 29 might then seem redundant. As you can see, this is a difficult issue, whose knowledge cannot be without experts in the field of law, both academics and judges. I therefore believe that it is not now possible to make a clear conclusion as to whether the House's press is for the benefit of the matter or not. Therefore, I propose that we give him a second reading in the committee responsible. There we can discuss the matter with the experts of criminal law and we can decide the fate of this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u23	I thank Mr Simeon Karamaz. That was the last one entered into the debate. Mr Karel Fiedler, with a point of fact in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would only react very briefly to the words of the previous speaker, whom I would like to thank for his proposal, for what was said here from his mouth. I really think that the issue is very difficult for both people, I think the Members here who have personal experience in this area, with this specific area, and for citizens as well. It would be good to really discuss this issue in committees and then decide on any adjustments, or how to deal with this law. What was said here merely convinced me that we should continue to deal very intensively with this subject, and I therefore beg you to be released for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u25	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr Martin Lank also made a point of fact and then Mr Stupčuk also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u26	Thank you. I promise I'll be here for the last time. The more I think about it, the more it gets in my head. And I'm just asking myself a question. Now, let's forget about our original profession, our expertise, whether we're lawyers, whether we were cops and so on, and let's look at it humanely. We're here for what? Are we here to protect some bad guys who are going somewhere to steal and possibly murder, rape, or are we here for people? When I put on one bowl of scales, when this novel is adopted, and it is possible that, as a result of that, someone might react a little bit inappropriately, and let's say they shoot someone who came to rob a house or maybe kill a grandmother, or on the other hand, if this novel is accepted, we'll stop Grandma from getting killed, so for me the result is quite clear. I hope we're here for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u27	Thank you. Mr Štěpán Stupčuk now also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I think this is a classic example of how laws should not be made precisely. The draft law, in terms of content, basically does not create anything new. On the contrary, it can be said that it is duplicated in its form against the existing regulation, because the current regulation is general enough to subsume all the cases that it would like to affect this bill. This means legislation is duplicate, redundant, it is simply useless, it is inaccurate. [[Noise in the hall.]] And as I said, the adjustment in paragraphs 1 and 2 is general enough to affect all the quantities, the diversity of cases that may occur in practice. On the other hand, I can imagine a situation where the adoption of this standard in paragraph 3 will result in interpretation confusion, disrepancy in practical application. I would very much warn that we should approach legal norms in such a way in general. I am here to acknowledge what my colleagues have said about the fact that the current regulation is sufficient and that we should therefore reject this proposal. If the argument has been made here that 81 percent of people feel inadequately safe and that this is the main reason for us to approve this standard, then with the same logic, I can ask myself the question: if we ask citizens if they think they pay high taxes in the Czech Republic, then I believe that 90 percent, perhaps even more will answer that they do. I ask: will it then be a reason for us to reduce taxes or cancel them completely? I don't think so. So the reasons should always be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u29	Mr. Ambassador, you have made a point of fact. You're out of time. Thank you. Now, with Mr Chvojka's application. We are still in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u30	Thank you for the floor. I originally did not want to perform, but my colleague Böhnisch, as a lawyer, asked me how many people have been convicted recently for using unimpaired defenses. I didn't remember a single case. When this institute is in some way being discussed in a court of law, at least in the second instance, it's always canceled. The excesses are unknown to me, or they're not known to me. However, what I finally understood was where the money that Tomio Okamura billed went. Because it's obvious that Members elected at Dawn, and I'm not mean to them, I kind of like them, everyone says the same thing. [[Glee in the hall.]] So Tomio faked it more than once, which I don't think is very moral. And that's basically it. I think it speaks for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u31	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I ask Mr Kádner if he is interested in the final word. Yes, please, the plaintiff with the final word. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u32	I would like to thank you for the debate that may have been a little wider here. I think the debate has been going on for more than three years outside this House. I think that the necessary defence, where there is proportionality, where there is no, is a debate that I think will still be at the big debate. And I'm begging you once again to have a debate on the committees, where they belong. Because we don't want to change anything. Since I've been listening here, all I can do is nod that we're all right. The problem is that when it comes to trial, the interpretation is so inadequate that two identical or almost similar cases end in a completely different way, and I don't think it should be. And the fact that people are going to get some corrections when they appeal, the years that it all takes, I think it's all for a long elbow. Thank you once again, and once again, I ask that this amendment be introduced into the second reading and into the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u33	Thank you. I'm asking the rapporteur. Yes, the rapporteur with his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u34	Thank you again. Good evening. Colleagues, colleagues, I will not evaluate the number of performances, nor shall I do so, nor my performances. I'd just like to draw attention to three speeches that clearly spoke about who was listening to it, what it was about. Through the Vice-President, Mr Ondráček has clearly described what an emergency is, the necessary defence. Whoever you were listening to, you took a picture. Mr. Stupčuk said it beautifully. We have it so general that everything you guys talked about fits into the general one. If we hadn't done it so well from the past by developing law, some things wouldn't fit in there at all and goodbye. So it wouldn't help us. That's very simple. And the last thing - Mr. Chvojka said nicely. If nothing else, let's look at the statistics on how many people have been punished in our country, you know under the word sits for excessive defense. So it's also important to say. Once again, I'll just evaluate that six colleagues have spoken. There were several proposals, mostly proposals were rejected, proposals for dismissal fell. That's all, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-010-032.u35	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have a vote before us on the proposal that was made at first reading, and that is a motion for rejection. I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In voting order number 123, we will decide on the proposal that was made in the debate to reject this bill at first reading. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 123, from 133 Members present for 98, against 18. The motion was accepted. This bill was rejected. Thank you, rapporteur, thank you, and I finish point 32. We'll continue with point number
