ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u1	205. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, in the order of the interpelation of Zdeněk Ondráček to Milan Chovanec, the interpelation of Jan Farský to Minister Andrej Babiš, the interpelation of Zbyněk Stanjura to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, the interpelation of Zbyněk Stanjura to Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, the interpelation of Zbyněk Stanjura to Minister Andrej Babiš, the interpelation of Vojtěch Filip on Bohuslav Sobotka, the interpelation of Vojtěch Filip to Robert Pelikán, the other has an interpelation of Andrej Babiš and then continues the interpelation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to Minister of Transport Dan Ťok and the interpelace of Miroslav Grebeníček to Bohuslav Sobotka and the last two also to Bohuslav Sobotka of Mr Karel Fiedler, and this is eleventh and the twelfth. A total of 12 answers that Members were not satisfied with. So I would like to begin my first interpelation, and this is the interpellation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček in relation to the examination of the crime scene in the violent death of a man in Jihlava. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as press 517, the discussion of this interpelation has been suspended. I am opening the debate and reporting to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u2	Thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, for how today's interpellation, whether written or oral, will take place, you will probably see the ministers' participation here. Of the 12 written interventions, only one will probably be answered to the Minister of Agriculture. I think it'll be quick. My Minister chovanec should probably be in Brussels today, where he should defend our interests. I hope that his work there will be fruitful, that he will not give in to Brussels or Euro-pressure, and for the third time I would like to ask you to interrupt this interpelation for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u3	I'm filing a motion for interruption. We will decide in the vote the order number 57, which I can initiate, and I ask who is in favour of the motion for interruption to the present, this time I note to the presence of the Minister of the Interior. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 57, from 98 in favour of 75, against 4. Interpelation has been suspended. We now have another interpelation, press 551, which is the interpelling of Mr Jan Farský for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš on an interview in the Journal of Law. Interpelation with your response is presented in print 551. I am asking Mr Farský, who is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've submitted an interview, I've already been here once unhappy with the reply to the written interpelation, and I will unfortunately be today, because I need the Minister's personal participation to answer that question, for one reason. In an interview for the Law on 20 June 2015, the Minister stated that he knew in the House that there were at least four or five thieves. And I'm just wondering who that is. Because he refused to answer me that I could use the answer to further attacks against him, I don't know now. Am I to see this as a confession or as an accusation against his closest associates? And since I'm confused, and without Mr. Babiš, I'm not gonna know the answer, I'm asking for an interruption of this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u5	You've heard the motion to interrupt. I'm gonna sign you off because I had a request from the diaper, so I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Initiating vote number 58. I'm asking who's in favour of interrupting this interview. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 58, from the present 95 for 92, against no one, the proposal was accepted and this reply to the written interpelation is interrupted. Now I think we will be lucky, because the next intervention rejected by the Member is the interpellation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in the matter of the selection procedure for the position of director of the Frýdek-Místek plant at the state enterprise Povodí Odry. It's press 572. I am opening the debate and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has signed up for it. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor, but I think it is wrong to say that an MP is lucky in a block of written interviews. If I listened well to the note and found out that neither the Minister of Finance was present, we could discuss 12 written interviews today. The Minister of Agriculture is here, thank you, but he's the only one of the 12 to know how seriously the government is taking answers to written interpelations. And I would remind you that last week, when the meeting week was of the will of the government majority, there were no interviews on Thursday. And if you remember the first week of our meeting after the holidays, that situation was just as miserable. We have repeatedly asked the House's leadership, and the House's leadership is doing this, there is nothing to criticize that the House's leadership repeatedly asks the Prime Minister to do so unless they are excused for example. from a foreign business trip, but from 12 to have the presence of one minister there is therefore a criminally few. Maybe it's the result that we had an emergency meeting again that lasted about six minutes. Remember the emergency meeting last week at the Czech Post Office. I propose to the government coalition that they call an emergency meeting next time and don't put anything on the program. This will be the ideal course of an extraordinary meeting, and it won't really go beyond the traditions that you're starting here in the fall. Let's get back to the interpellation. In this matter, I shall interpel the Minister for a second time. I first intersected him in August 2014, when I asked him about the reasons for the appeal of the then general director of the state enterprise Povodí Odry. That's when I said it, and today I'm going to repeat it, that I fully respect the right of the minister, of any kind, to choose my co-workers and choose the people who will run the businesses that they have in mind. [[9.30 hours]] I didn't question that then, and I won't question it today. And I stand by that. The only thing that bothers me is that very often when I exchange management in state or city companies, instead of simply saying "there's a new leadership, thank you, Mr. Director, as you last led it, I have decided or decided that I'm going to confide in someone else, we're going to break up politely," so I think there's a reason why they might degenerate the recalled director. I quote to you what the Minister said to me in the debate that took place on 4 December last year. I've got the words rewritten from the log so everyone can check whether I'm telling the truth or not. "The process of appeal was such, says Minister Jurečka, that a tender was to be issued for the position of director of one of the races." - State enterprise Povodí Odry also has individual races broken down in the territory, for those who do not deal in detail with this issue. - "Mr. First Deputy Minister of Agriculture said very politely that he would like the tender to be published as open. That means anybody can sign up. He was communicating with the CEO, and he told him that he had an internal regulation that wouldn't allow it. I have asked through the first deputy that I would like the regulation to be adjusted and that we should proceed openly. If he and the first deputy agreed to turn it into an open tender, I must say that I had a personal meeting with the first deputy and the general manager. Mr. Director General of the Odry basin told me to my face that he would not write an open tender for the position of director of the race. That was a key moment when I decided to just call him off. He must have sensed from the situation that the situation was coming to this, but he insisted on his own, and the communication at that moment was already rather heated!" - An exclamation point in the screen. - "So it was just my decision, I have full responsibility for it and I believe that the new CEO is able to manage the Odry basin very well. But I say again that the basic argument for appeal was the procedure in the case of the selection procedure, when the Director General, and I must say, in a rather arrogant way, will say that this procedure simply will not work." So many quotes from the last hearing. And I asked a very simple question in my interview, I must admit that I knew the answer how and with what result the tender procedure for the position of director of the Frýdek-Místek plant at the state enterprise Povodí Odry came. And now it's going to be interesting. The new Director-General has not issued an open tender procedure, has acted according to the recommendation and in the same way as the Director-General, who has been called off and has chosen the director or director of the plant from his own resources, from his own staff. And I have to say, he did the right thing. I don't want to criticize the CEO for this step, because even then, I said that I considered it a proxy problem for the Director-General's appeal. To be clear, this is not a criticism of the progress of the new CEO. I said we could go back to his evaluation sometime after one year, when he'll definitely show if he's a good or average manager. And that year hasn't passed yet, so I don't want to judge today. And it really doesn't focus on the state enterprise Povodí Odry, but on the double standard that the Minister of Agriculture applies. One CEO says, "I will take the post of my subordinate selection procedure from my employees" and that is a key moment for appeal. And the new CEO will take this post through a selection procedure from his own staff, which means the same way that the previous CEO paid for it. In order to understand each other, when I say double standards, I do not want the Minister to do the same and call off the Director-General again because the selection procedure has not been reopened. I don't know how many times he or the First Deputy have dealt with him personally, and it's not important. I would like the Minister to say something else openly: I have replaced the Director-General, I have no reason to do this, it is my full right, it is fully in my competence, I have acted in this way and I believe, as he said in the debate in December, that the new Director-General will proceed in a way that the company will lead very well. It's very simple. Then there was another reason the minister didn't say in his reply, and I didn't use it in the quote either. The second reason was that the former Director-General was supposedly miscommunication with some of the representatives of the government, and finally, after the debate with the Minister, the municipality of Nové Heřminy came out of it. This is a community that has long opposed the intention of building a dam on its cadastral. I think they're entitled to it. I, as a citizen of Opava, support the construction of this dam. Personally, I was still there as mayor at a few public debates, when I got it from the locals, because they are logically against it. But asking the general director of the Odry basin, whoever it is to follow it - and he actually follows the government's resolution because it is a government decision, it is not a decision of a state enterprise, and it prepares the necessary dam in my opinion to protect Krnov and Opava in order to have good relations and to gain the support of the Authority of New Heřminov, it is a task that cannot be fulfilled. But maybe I'm wrong. Last year there were new municipal elections, perhaps a change in the situation, perhaps the Minister could tell us whether the Authority of the New Heřminov already agrees with the State's intention - I point out not to the state undertaking, but to the state - to build a dam as a flood control measure for large territories. The idea became current after catastrophic floods in 1997, when, unfortunately, four people died in Opava as a result of these floods. We have been 18 years since then and we have not yet succeeded - and I am telling us, because when I was a member of the Regional Council of the Moravian-Silesian Region, we had a great consensus across the political spectrum and many resolutions that supported the intention to build this dam. And I want to say that everyone or almost all regional representatives voted for him regardless of their political affiliation. Well, I'm dissatisfied with the answer because the Minister has not explained the contradiction yet. If he does what I ask him to do, that means that he basically apologizes to the former Director-General, that the reasons were not serious, that they were more proxy and that he used his rights, which I do not really deny to him, to exchange management, I will be satisfied. If he does not do so and continues to look for more and more reasons when the first one has proved to be false, the main one he himself mentioned in the debate is not a presumption of the opposition, but it is a quote precisely to the Minister of Agriculture's speech, then I will ask the House to disagree with the Minister's reply. So the proposal - I will decide on how the Minister of Agriculture will react. I just don't think it's possible for one person to be called off for the same thing and the other person to do it. And I note that this is the right thing to do, and I do not criticise the fact, because I have already used many of the reasons in my interpelation, which is probably also used by the new CEO, for why it is better for a business that often has to work in the event of crisis conditions, in the event of floods, flood commissions, why it is better for someone who is already working in the enterprise to come to the management position within the enterprise, because he knows not only the enterprise, he knows the territory, it knows the water catchment area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u7	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I'll give him my word, I'll just say I'm sorry. Mr Petr Fiala, Mrs Balaštíková, from 14.30 to 17.30 apologizes for the whole day Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Mrs Markéta Adamová from 9 to 10.30, Mr Pilný from 17 a.m. and Mrs Jana Lorencová from 9 to 11 a.m. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Stanjura's interpellation. I said that, even though we talked about this matter almost a year ago, I would like it if these things were not completely out of context and were really taken overall. And I also said at the time that the matter of the selection procedure was the culmination of communication disagreement and poor communication between the Director-General at the time and my first Deputy Minister Jirsa, who was in charge of the field of founding activity and, say, the administration and management of individual water catchment areas. So that was, say, a series of communications that the gentlemen had together and that didn't work. And this was really, let's just say, the last straw I had after the consultations I had with Mr. First Deputy and then the Director General, so I decided to resolve the situation this way. By calling him off, as you say, I have every right. I'm trying to save up with these steps, because of all the CEOs of all five water catchment areas, I've replaced only one of the only ones on the Odry basin for the whole time I've been in office. I have to say that even the things you mentioned, the communication, the preparation of some long-term projects that failed in time as they should say ideally run, so it was just a set of several things and from that context this matter was accentuated. I think it turns out that the CEO, who's been there for almost a year, has proven himself in his position. After eight years he was able to compete and compete to repair the Šance waterworks, hand over the repair of the Šance waterworks to the realization of the construction company. We are also finishing the preparation of the mentioned tank in Heřminovy, so that this construction can be built really in 2018. So I have to say, it was a matter of communication. If the communication had gone better, I don't think the situation might have happened, the escalation might not have happened, and the Director might not have been recalled. But sometimes these situations happen, and from a managerial point of view, there's no other way than to end it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now, Mr. František Laudát. Then President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, I attended this interpellation that my colleague Stanjura gave to Minister Jurečka at the time, and I must say that Mr Jurečka's words, which he just said, did not satisfy me at all. You just needed to put your man in a position, and that's why you destroyed a man who could be trusted, for whom I would put my hand in the fire, unlike most others. Don't be mad at me, you're just acting like Babiš. You're throwing people out on the basis of some partisan books and not really what kind of performance they're capable of, how fair they're able to work. Too bad there aren't any ministers here. Me, if Babiš had put someone who had the expertise to do it, who was great or better than his predecessor, I wouldn't move a muscle. I think his change in Aeroholding, for example, was one of the few happy ones. The rest of the stuff I've learned so far, it's a blunder on enthusiasm, and everyone here feels that the materials that come from the Ministry of Finance are significantly lower quality than we've been used to in recent periods, whether they ruled at the Ministry of Kalousek, Sobotka or somebody else. It's the worst in history since 1990, I dare say. I would very much ask this government to stop these personnel slaughters. And, Minister, what you're saying, if you haven't forgotten to see how your Deputys are communicating what they're doing. You're doing a fucking policy, pardon me, and there are no important things behind you yet. The only thing you're doing is making a henchman for Babiš and a sidekick for his, you know, euro-donating policy. That's all. And I'm sad you're doing it. The problem is that we cannot afford to get rid of state institutions and the administration of quality people. Very capable people today prefer the private sector and there unfortunately not even Czech companies, but multinational companies. And if I blame anything, and it's an analogy with what you, Bém, do when he started to rampage in Prague, not even that he sometimes bent some of the projects, that's what the police and others are doing to condemn it, but that he destroyed the generation of people who wanted to give the rest of their careers in Prague and did it with enthusiasm, to change it, to work for the city. And he wiped out these people. You're acting exactly the same way. You make me sad when I say it very politely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u11	Thank you. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u12	I waited and believed that I would be pleasantly surprised. Unfortunately, I'm disappointed in the Minister. Instead of admitting a mistake and saying, "I was wrong when I blamed the CEO at the time for making an open tender, so the new CEO did it the way the last one suggested," and here again, he's pulling things out of context. I quoted his responses from the log. I didn't rip anything out, I didn't interpret anything. Either you weren't telling the truth last year or this year. Last year it was a key moment, a crucial thing. And the phrase "there have been several communications that have not ended in a satisfactory way" - I can always say that communication can be better. And either we want self-confident experts at the head of state enterprises who are not afraid to defend their professional opinion and against the opinion of the official, in this case Deputy Minister of Agriculture, or we want those who simply do not, if they do not, and the ministerial official who is not responsible for the business - no first Deputy Minister of Agriculture is responsible for the economic results of the Odry, how it works, how it works in crisis - so he says, the CEO will knock down his heels and do what the one who does not bear the responsibility. It's very simple. But the Minister obviously doesn't want to admit his mistake or his mistake. Well, in that case, I suggest we disagree with the Minister of Agriculture's reply. But let's remember that if the unpopular or unchosen CEO allows himself to disagree with the Deputy Minister, he's done. And I remind you again that the Minister has the right to do so. If you'd forgiven your proxy, I wouldn't have interfered with him last year or this year. He wouldn't be the first minister to change directors of state enterprises, and he certainly wouldn't be the last minister to change them. But the problem is justification and finding dirt on these people. It also sounded like a year ago, you're saying it's been a year now that there's been some mistrials in the tender. That I've heard it from more than one side. What happened that year? Nothing's been proven, nothing's been found. A general sentence that you want to check the contracts, you can say that about any company. And it's okay. Have the founder check the contracts that are happening. No offense. And if you're saying, and quite rightly, that the CEO finished the selection for the Chance Waterworks, then why don't you tell the whole history what it was like? What inherited, in what condition did the former CEO inherit this order? How didn't he do the UOHS? How, in my opinion, the former Director-General rightly decided to cancel a contract that was strange, and put out a new one, which is now successfully completed. That's the whole context. But just so we understand each other, it's not an attack or a criticism of the new CEO. Read the Minister's reply and you'll find that you're right. Supposedly, what he was called away for. If he had been called off because the Minister had made a decision, I wouldn't have protested. I'd take it. But it bothers me. And unfortunately, Minister Jurečka is not the only one who does it when he wants to get rid of some director who did good service. And look at the economic results of the company under the leadership of the former CEO! Look at that! Look how in those years when there were flood situations, how the business worked. Excellent. So instead of saying, "thank you, Director, you've done excellent service, I'm the new minister, I want a new man, let's break up like decent people," instead there's a lot of substitute reasons, and it's like there's a reason why the director had to be replaced. Without using that competence. Confidently, with the right to do so. Which is the procedure I recommend. I've also changed various executives in my political career. But most of the time, I invited them, and if I really wanted the person I trusted, I politely thanked him and we broke up in a good way. But I wasn't looking for substitute reasons to develop myself from why I'm actually changing the CEO. [[9.50 hours]] And the fact that you're saying that you've switched others, I haven't really done statistics on how many personnel decisions you've made, either at the Ministry or at state companies, because it's not important to me. If the Minister has the authority, and that's a good thing, let him do it. I know this particular case, I am convinced that the person in your statements - not the appeal. Anyone who works for the state must count on the situation to change after the election. I think people go into those positions, they don't retire, they don't have it for 30 years, and it's normal. He was wronged not in the fact that he was dismissed, but in the way the Minister of Agriculture here spoke of him on a microphone. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u13	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I only want to stand up for Mr Stanjura, because he has explained it quite clearly, briefly and I think everyone has understood. I don't really care about this, I guess, two basic things in the Minister's reply. The first is that he is constantly referring to the poor communication of the former CEO, but perhaps it is time to pay for the course of communication to the Deputy Minister, because the communication is probably on more fronts. The second thing that bothered me a lot is that if we're dealing with the appeal of the former director of the Odry and you're arguing that the new one is excellent, it has nothing to do with it, unfortunately, because no one is questioning the steps and procedures of the new CEO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u15	Thank you, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. Who's next for the debate? If no one... I'm sorry. My colleague Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I've also applied through electronic devices, but you probably missed me, which I understand can happen. I see the problem simply. The error was in communication, but not in communication between the Director and the Minister, but rather the Minister and the Director. And the minister, young, inexperienced, stumbled upon someone with abilities, has results, and has a legitimate degree of self-confidence for the life experience he has, and the minister was unable to find a reason to call him off, and so he publicly demoted him by throwing him out that he didn't want to put out a public tender for his deputy. Then he withdrew the Director and, without a public tender being drawn up, the Deputy Director was chosen. I think it was a proxy problem and that we are only seeing that the communication course would not only need the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, but also the Minister of Agriculture himself, because he does not only communicate within the Ministry but also outside it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u17	Thank you. Mr Kudela, now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are already talking about this interpellation for the second time in a year. I took a look at the statement from Podvodí Odry's commercial register. The former director, who was recalled here by Minister Jurečka, is probably Mr Ing. Miroslav Krajíček, member of the subcommittee on investment subsidies in health and social policy, Member of Parliament from 1998 to 2002, Club Civic Democratic Party, North Moravian Region, Opava. Isn't this qualification the main reason why Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, the Moravian-Silesian Region, Opava, has this case in his view? And we could also ask ourselves, under what conditions was the former member of the Civil Democratic Party from Opava, a former member of the Sub-Committee on Health, put him in the position of Director of the Odry basin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u19	Thank you. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u20	In my opinion, I'm judging you. This is the case of a Member who has just spoken. Yes, I wasn't hiding that he was the person I knew, he's a personal friend of mine, and he's also a member of my political party. So the circumstances under which he was appointed: the previous CEO died. There was a vacancy. That's suspicious, isn't it? Shame on you. Do you know a career, not a political career, my colleague, our former colleague Mirek Krajíček? Do you know how many dams he built? Do you know how many decades he's worked in construction on leading functions as a construction manager? He built almost all the dams here, which are not only in our region. How can you even afford to question his professional qualifications just because he was an MP? How are you going to be talked about when someone's gonna work in ten years and say, "Yeah, that's Kudela, that was a KDU MP from 2014 to 2018, that's suspicious. Isn't that the only qualification? You're still young, I'm sure you'll get some other occupations or jobs. So before you start attacking a person you don't know, read not only a political resume, but also a professional one. If I wasn't sure he was in his place, I wouldn't be here. I know many members of my own party that I wouldn't talk about here. But you forgot that I respect the Minister's right to choose. But you work the same way as the Minister of Agriculture. You don't know anything about him, and you're mysteriously suggesting that it was some party nomination of a guy who didn't have it in him. I'm not gonna play the same card and talk about the party card of the current CEO. I said I'd wait for the results, and then I'd evaluate his work. But I could use it the same way. Well, if you can't do that, I'll bring you the résumé, read it. And then you're gonna tell me that a guy who's professionally handling this shouldn't be in charge just because he's a member of a competing political party? Is that an argument? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u21	I thank Mr Stanjur, Mr Petr Bendl, then Mr František Laudát. I see it as a point of fact. This time, Mrs Němcová, too. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u22	I think it's here to see how the Minister of Agriculture approaches personnel policy, and really stupid manners, forgive the expression, colleagues in the House, who are trying to stand up for the Minister of Agriculture, but in a very unfortunate way. If you really treat it this way, that you simply dehonest anyone who's ever sat in the Chamber of Deputies without looking at his professional skills, what he's done in his entire life, because Mirek Krajíček isn't the youngest person anymore, he'll forgive me if I talk about him like that, you don't find out about him and you dig this way, you just show your own inability to say something substantial. And I'm sorry to have to say this. But it's a shame!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr František Laudát, then Mrs Miroslava Němcová's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u24	Thank you for the floor. I thank Mr. Kudel very much for saying it out here. Just somebody was on some side, and in the democratic side, and we have, today, the minister who's our partner has our part-time book, so let's go there with your chutes. That's exactly what it is. And I'm asking you, what's the difference when you're repeatedly defining yourself against the era before November 1989? And do you KDU-ČSL partners realize that you're doing the exact same thing in this plane? [[10.00 hours]] That person doesn't care if he was fired by pre-November communists or by post-November KDU-ČSL. Shame on you! But I'm glad it sounded like it was all over the place. No experts, I have a party book, so I'll be there. I don't have a party book, so get it out. That's the argument. I haven't heard anything so disgusting from KDU-ČSL in spite of your mental excesses since the last election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u25	Thank you. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, then with the factual remark of Mr Kudela and then with priority rights, the Minister. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm applying for one reason. Since I have been in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time, and I have experienced a colleague of Miroslav Krajíček, I would consider it unfair to him if I had not got off here now. He was very decent - and he certainly remained a very decent man and a very capable representative of the Chamber of Deputies. I think talking about someone whose credit was high here is a sign that you can't get any information at all, and you're able to slander anyone just to save your minister who acted in exactly the same way. This is where the method shows up. If a colleague of Stanjura criticizes the Minister because he couldn't handle communication and can't break up with a decent person in a decent way, then you here confirmed - yes, that's our principle, that's how we act, just if it's someone who doesn't have our party book, and yet, you fools from the ODS, you stand up for it, you get the second blow. First colleague Miroslav Krajíček, second as political party. I don't like it very much. I want it to be said here that Miroslav Krajíček is a very decent person and the way he is treated is not an option in normal society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u27	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Mr Kudela's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to retreat. I didn't say anything against Mr. Krajíček, hopefully - I'll look at the log - nothing. I only asked the question - isn't this repeated interpelation because Mr Krajíček was a former MP for the ODS?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u29	Okay, okay. The Minister will wait, because here I have the factual remarks of Mr Kalousek and Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u30	Thank you. That is also to be said from another political side. Mr. Krajíček was never, I think, in KDU, he wouldn't have been like this. He's never even been to the TOP 09. But many of us know him as a decent and hardworking man. And as a decent and hardworking person, he should have been treated even if he had to be dismissed. It happens. But it can be done in a civilized way, or it can be done in a totally crunchy way. As far as I know, unfortunately, there's been a second case. And dragging a political party into this is really disgusting, Mr. Colleague. In those days when I used to be a member of your party, it wasn't done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u31	Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u32	I would ask Mr Kudela to read the tape screen, and perhaps he will understand the outrageous insults he has made. If not, the debate is useless. I will always stand up for decent and hardworking people, and even on your part if I think that someone is referring not because they have the right to do so, but because they invent substitute reasons and try to justify their step backwards or forwards instead of saying I want my man there. I said it three times in here! And you dare to do that again and again... I thought you were going to apologize! And you insist on your insults. That's a picture of you. I'm really gonna get you that résumé. And I'm not asking you to do anything. I'm not asking you to do anything anymore. Not an apology. I don't want her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u33	Another factual point by Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u34	Thank you. Your mediation with Mr. Kudel. You claim Christianity as a party. So I would just point out the pope's statement, and maybe it has the support of the Bible - repeated stupidity is a sin. Dear KDU members, colleagues, Members, Members, I can tell you that I cannot imagine what a scandal would be when good people from social democracy in the era of right-wing or middle-right governments have remained in their posts, even if I could tell you - but I do not associate a career with a party because it is something repulsive, so what they have remained in the positions of deputy ministers. How it did not touch people, high-quality experts, even with some party affiliations at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Trade. That's why the ministry worked unlike the current state of affairs at the Treasury. And somebody can cover it up with some crap for the fourth prize he wants. So I would recommend to Mr Kudel a thorough reading of the Bible. Maybe then he'd start acting differently. And then maybe he'd also figure out what he said in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u35	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Agriculture. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u36	Thank you. I have to respond to some things. Excuse me, Mr laudat, through Mr President, I did not do any personnel slaughterhouse. I didn't do any personnel slaughterhouse, I did exchanges where necessary, because they were directors of organizations such as Forests of the Czech Republic, State Land Office, ÚKZÚZ - these were the three key ones, where people were incompetent from their predecessors, ministers from the ODS, people who are still in a lot of trouble today that are being saved by law enforcement authorities. The damage to the state was in the order of hundreds of millions, rather billions. I expect these things to be fully presented to the public in the next few months. Minister Bendl smiles - I would like him to have the smile lasted after these matters, because he, as Minister for these decisions, was responsible for both the Forests of the Czech Republic and the State Land Office, etc. [[exministr]] Show me, Mr laudat, through Mr President, the only one of my directors within my subordinate organisations, the only one who is incompetent who has no professional competence. I'll wait for you to deliver it to me. Take the job. I'll even get you resumes. And then we're gonna have a fund-raiser, and not your political bullshit that you're here to say about the personnel slaughterhouse. Good memorials remember what happened when Petr Nečas' government took office, what happened at some ministries, when people who were very experienced left. I will just add, because Mr Kudela has raised the question here, but to make this sound for all the other Members. When Mr. Krajíček was selected, he was selected without a tender. Maybe that's a good thing to say in the whole picture of what we're talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u37	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura in the debate all the time. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u38	Thank you. He won't rest, will he, the Minister of Agriculture? I told you last time, he was chosen without a tender directly. We know what the situation was. The previous CEO died. We thought he was the man who could handle the job. We talked him into it. He has to say it's weird again, right? It is strange for Members of Kudel that he was a member of a political party other than his, for the Minister of Agriculture it is strange that it was without a tender. It's still weird. And then you're surprised we're defending a decent man. That's all. Instead of admitting a mistake, you're adding and adding and adding. I really don't understand. And don't blame me. Yes, I've known the former CEO for 20 years. I met him as a relatively young man. I learned a lot from him. And the minimum that I can give him back for what he taught me is that if those who don't know anything about him, about him falsely, lyingly and defensively, I will defend him. And the fact that we're from the same city has nothing to do with it. And I said that in December, we knew each other. In December, I said he was an ODS MP. In December, I said he was appointed without a tender. [[10.10 hours]] But you're trying to level with me for denying the Minister of Agriculture the right to replace the Director General. I didn't deny him that either in December or this October. He just doesn't have the guts to say, "I broke my jurisdiction." He is looking for the stupid support of some of his party colleagues, I do not want to say that all Members, all Members, it was one KDU MP who spoke here, a proxy argument. That's what bothers me. And don't turn it anywhere else, and don't pull party jurisdiction. You, too, will one day, Mr Kudela, be a former Member. Believe it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u39	Thank you. I have no other application for a debate. I will conclude the debate and we will vote on the proposal of Mr Stanjura, who refused the reply of Minister Marian Jurečka to his interpelation. I ask who agrees with the rejection of the interpelation and the minister was obliged to make a new response. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. A colleague of mine, Sedya and Mrs Bohdalová, aren't checking in, all right, thank you. Once the number of Members applied for is settled, we will decide on Mr Stanjura's proposal in the 59 series vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of refusing the intervention of Minister Jurečka. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 59 of 81 Members present for 41, against 15. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Minister Marian Jurečka will have to answer Mr Zbyněk Stanjur again for his intervention. Thank you. We are now going to continue to interpel, and this is the interpelling of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the issue of the liberalisation of rail transport. The negotiations on this interpelation have already been suspended once. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to propose the same or we will continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u40	Before I suggest a break, I just want to say a few sentences. When you find the tapestry from the previous debate, and the minister was present, it was interrupted not for his absence, to be clear, but because the time reserved for written interpelation had passed, so today he is duly excused. I don't want to criticize it. But he said the sentence: "I have no control over the supervisory board of the Czech Railways." You'll find it in the log. ANO colleagues have been proposing some commissions here very often to save, for example, the state enterprise Česká pošta. I would ask them to see how it is possible that their minister says that he is not in control of the supervisory board of an undertaking which is 100% owned by the state and where most, not the majority, when the majority of shareholder rights are exercised by the Ministry of Transport, but also by the Ministry of Finance, also by the Ministry of Defence, as well as by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And if it is true that the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways does not listen to the founder, then do so that we do not again have a proposal to set up an investigation committee on what is going on in the Czech Railways. You have the authority to do that. And you'll find that statement from Minister Took in the tapestry. But that wasn't the essence of interpellation. This was in the context of the fact that the Czech Railways refused to submit, through the Ministry of Transport, the information requested by the Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, with reference to alleged business secrets, and this is said by the company that collects approximately 13 billion. Czech crowns from public budgets every year. I think we need to continue the debate in the presence of the Minister of Transport, so I suggest we interrupt it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u41	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal. We will decide in the vote order number 60, the ratios haven't changed much, so I'm not going to sign you off and I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Who's in? No. Okay, disagree. I declare the 60-order vote to be misguided because there was a request for a check-out. I'll have you all checked out. Log in again with your identification cards, and the decision to interrupt the interpelation will be the 61 order that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this response. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 61 of the present 90 for 74, against 10. I've interrupted discussing the response to this interpellation in print 576. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on the BDO study to the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš. It's press 513. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 586. I'm opening the debate. This is Mr. President and Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u42	You were very optimistic, Mr. Vice President, when you said I was lucky about 50 minutes ago. I have a third interview, Minister Babiš is not here. Before I propose an interruption so that we can finish this, I want to say that I expressed my discontent because I did not receive the BDO IT study I wanted for all Members. I had it yesterday, you were witnesses, you got it in writing, but I asked all Members to have it. I don't want to be the only one who has it. There are undoubtedly interesting figures, interesting facts that relate to the EET, so it is certainly good to have a debate in the presence of the Minister of Finance. I recommend it to everyone, and I said I'd have it scanned from our sources and sent it to you to look in particular at the estimated costs. I suggest we abort this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u43	Okay. I'm asking if there's a motion to check out. It's not like that. I think we're in the same number now. We will decide in the vote order number 62, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this response to the interpelation. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 62 from present 93 for 70, against 10. This response to written inhalation was also interrupted. I'm gonna ask for an exchange because the next interview is my interpellation to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u44	Have a lovely morning, everyone. I ask that the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip present his intervention on the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u45	Thank you. I could propose an interruption very briefly in the absence of the Prime Minister, but I will also suggest it, but I will draw attention to the matter which is the content of the press' interpelation 602. I intervened with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic in connection with a major accident at the Unipetrol chemical factory in Litvínov, where the intervention of many fire units was needed, closing the arrival communication, declaring a special level of alarm and so on. I was interested in the answer to how the current owners of the company behaved. This isn't just about how the integrated rescue system behaved. When I became acquainted with the original privatisation project from the available sources, I find that the owners who took over the privatized business had certain tasks that resulted from the privatisation project, which also resulted in the price of the company, when it was intended to ensure development, its protection and, of course, its security, given the nature of the factory, the company. The Prime Minister answered me quite thoroughly, but, unfortunately, the substance concerning my interpellation, which was at the very point two, the second question, that is to say, the implementation of a privatisation project in the area of health protection and the lives of citizens living around the factory does not describe it. [[10.20 hours]] That's why I'd like us to discuss interpelation in one of the other... [[The speaker turned around and found that the Prime Minister had just settled in his seat.]] The Prime Minister has arrived. [[Vice-President Jerman: The Prime Minister is here.]] Well, I'm glad. In that case, I can continue because I believe it is a duty of the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure the conditions which, although previous governments, have laid down for new owners of industrial enterprises in the Czech Republic. It's a pretty big deal. It is about how the privatization project will be implemented and how the government of the Czech Republic will enforce obligations that it either doesn't fulfil or doesn't fulfil in part after the owners. In this respect, I think that this needs to be addressed. I even heard the owner was interested in selling the company. I don't know who it is. But, of course, obligations, if it is sold to another owner abroad or bought back by the Czech state, I do not know what the government will decide, so in this case it must say that they need to be filled. I understand that during the sale of the shares themselves, as the transfer of the share package was carried out, it went through the usual way, such as the sale of the shares, but the conditions it fulfils must be fulfilled from the perspective of the Czech legal order. Any foreign owner, whether he establishes or does not establish a Czech legal person, I think he needs to be stored or, respectively. enforce from him the fulfilment of such obligations, especially from the protection of the environment, the protection of citizens from the adverse effects of the chemical factory, but also the protection of the life and health of the citizens themselves from the point of view of industrial production, which is ensured there. That's why I rejected the answer. I believe it is important that it be made public how the government will act against the owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u46	Thank you and please to the Prime Minister's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u47	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me, therefore, to respond to the above-mentioned disagreement with the question of the question of the question expressed here by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the House of Deputies, Filip. To begin with, I would like to mention that the question of ensuring security in relation to Unipetrol's privatisation contracts was the question of interpelling. However, security is not primarily covered by privatisation contracts in this case, because safety obligations result from applicable laws and binding documents, which manufacturers of this type must draw up by law. I have tried to state exactly where the legal obligations are described in my reply to Mr Filip's interpellation. On the basis of the documents I have requested from the Ministry of the Interior in this matter, I can tell you that the issue of the safety of employees and residents around the production area of Unipetrol in Litvínov is addressed in particular by the Act on the prevention of major accidents caused by selected hazardous chemicals or chemical preparations and changes concerning the Act on the Protection of Public Health. Within the framework of the obligations laid down by law and the prevention of major accidents, the following documentation has been prepared or issued: the relevant decision of the Regional Authority on the classification of the building or equipment, a safety report covering the Petrochemistry unit, which has been approved by the Regional Authority on 18 January 2008. The administrative management and approval of the updated safety report are currently under way. Thirdly, the internal emergency plan, which relates to Petrochemistry unit in the updated version, was submitted to the Regional Authority on 1 July this year, and then it is an external emergency plan that relates to Petrochemistry unit, which was approved by the Regional Authority on 5 January this year. As regards the issue of relation to the protection of the population, it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that an emergency planning zone is established for an undertaking which does not interfere with the populated area of any municipality. This means that there is no immediate effect of any accident in any residential area and therefore no immediate action is planned in relation to the inhabitants of the surrounding municipalities or cities. In the event of a major accident, communication 1/27 Most - Litvínov is closed. Municipalities outside the emergency planning zone are informed, according to the impact assessment of a particular accident, of its emergence and possible impacts on a particular municipality only after the post-accident situation has been evaluated. As regards the relevant communication 1/27 Most - Litvínov, in the last accident that occurred, this communication was closed. As Prime Minister, this summer I received a letter from the Governor of the Ústí Region asking that the issue of traffic security or, say, improving traffic on this communication be the subject of negotiations of the Security Council of the State. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that this topic has been discussed by the last meeting of the Security Council of the State, which took place on 30 September. The Security Council of the State has ordered the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior to submit a proposal to the Security Council of the State to address the issue of transport capacity between Most and Litvínov as well as in relation to communication 1/27 with regard to security aspects. So I want to confirm and inform the Chamber of Deputies that the government will continue to address the issue of 1/27 communication traffic on the basis of security aspects, particularly after the accident we experienced this year, on the initiative of the Governor of the Ústí Region. As far as the question of control is concerned, I would like to state that the last inspection of the security documentation, safety reports and emergency plans took place within the framework of the integrated control from 4 to 7 November 2014 and, according to my information during the inspection, shortcomings were not identified in the light of the compliance of the fire protection documentation. So let me just mention the aspect that relates to the privatisation of Unipetrol. On the basis of information from the Ministry of Finance, I can state that from the privatisation project of Unipetrol neither from the purchase and sale agreement of shares of 4. 6. 2004 concluded between the National Property Fund and PKN Orlen, there are no obligations for the buyer regarding the fulfilment of investment plans for the company's security of development. For these reasons, PKN Orlen has not been dealt with and is not subject to any penalties under this Treaty for non-compliance with obligations. However, I would like to say that, of course, within the framework of legislation laying down the security obligations of such companies, legal sanctions are laid down and these legal sanctions can be imposed. In addition to the response of Vice-President Filip, I must teď state in writing that the Government of the Czech Republic has no information to date that PKN Orlen is considering selling the assets of Unipetrol. So the government of the Czech Republic has no such information at this time. [[10.30 hours]] I am, of course, prepared if I receive such an incentive from any Member of the Chamber of Deputies or from the House of Deputies as such to deal with PKN Orlen if there are any doubts as to the fulfilment of its investment plans concerning maximum security and, of course, I am prepared to invite Mr Filip to such a meeting if he would be interested in attending such a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u48	Thank you. We are in a debate which, of course, is being held by Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. However, I would still like to know - in answer to the first question, Prime Minister, it is said that the internal emergency plan relating to the ethylene unit, the petrochemical unit of ethylene production, was submitted to the Regional Authority of Ústecký kraj 1. 7. However, 2015 does not indicate when the internal emergency plan was approved or how it is handled after the accident, because you do not mention proof that an internal emergency plan has been approved. You mention that the external emergency plan has been approved by 5. 1st of this year, but there is no further evidence of the internal emergency plan. This means that about the accident plan of that, I would say, the working order inside the ethylene unit does not indicate whether it is to be recast, whether it was approved before the accident, or whether other claims are now placed on it. I'd like to find out if both the state oversight authorities and those who approve the plan, if they approach it and what the new term of approval is. Since you are describing quite precisely the question of the last surveillance of the security documentation from 2014, that there were no deficiencies, so the question is, what condition is the investigation of the accident itself, and if someone was charged, or if the fine mentioned in paragraph 3 is being considered, that is, in that part of the answer that concerns the possibility of the State to sanction the company for failing to comply with the safety rules, because in other words, it could not have happened when it exploded, if the documentation is in order, the device was found to be in that control in 2014, then I do not know if it is continuing on the investigation and what stage it is, if you have information about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u50	I thank you and the Prime Minister is joining the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u51	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I must say, honourable Members, that I do not have at this time the detailed information requested by Mr Filip, particularly because the control powers and procedure which he mentioned in connection with the recent accident that unfortunately occurred in Litvínov is being decentralized. There are certain powers of the Regional Authority. In particular, there is the question of how the Regional Authority is proceeding in relation to the internal emergency plan, which was submitted on 1 July to the Regional Authority, and of course it is also information available to the Ministry of the Interior, respectively. Fire Department. What I can do is contact the Regional Authority of the Ústí Region without delay, contact the Ministry of the Interior, or contact the Ministry of the Interior immediately. to the Ministry of Environment. I will, of course, take the additional questions that Mr Filip has asked here and I am ready to complete this information in writing and it is up to Mr Filip to decide to provide this information to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies. So, yes, I'm ready to find out the relevant data and fill in the treasures that I mentioned in the written interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u52	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u53	Thank you. In that case, I have no reason not to trust the Prime Minister to provide me with the additional information, because I think it is also in the interest of the government of the Czech Republic, eventually the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Environment, to coordinate the completion, respectively. the completion of negotiations on the internal safety plan of the ethylene unit, or how the protection of the population in that zone will be ensured. So I'm not suggesting that you refuse to interpel. I was concerned with the addition that the Prime Minister here promised, and I believe him so far, so in this respect I expect his written reply without a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u54	Yes, thank you. And since no one else is going into the debate, I am ending the debate. Thank you. We will now proceed to another written interview, to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, who responded to Mr Vojtěch Filip's intervention on the privatisation of the state enterprise Mototechn České Budějovice. Interpelation together with the response shall be presented as printing of 603. I open the debate and ask the Vice-President - Minister Pelikán. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u55	I know Minister Pelikán is excused today because of a foreign trip. Let me just remind you that I was most concerned about the answer - a number of Members who were in the Audit Committee during the last parliamentary term in the Chamber of Deputies - know that this is a problem of privatising Mototechn State enterprise in České Budějovice, which has been privatized. The group that privatized it never paid it, four other entrepreneurs paid it to buy it from the owners who bought it from the state, and there was an investigation. The problem I draw attention to in the interpellation is simple. One investigator said there was no crime. Following the pressure on the police and prosecutors, when the Attorney General gave the decision that it was necessary to continue the investigation on the finished case, he said that the offence had taken place. And Minister Pelikán answers to my interpellation that, although it is a privatization offense, there is no 20-year statute of limitations, and I want to know why. Because the criminal law, both the original 140/1961 Coll. and the new criminal code of 2009, assumes that for crimes related to privatisation, the limitation period is 20 years. That period will expire this year, respectively. next year under the privatisation agreement, this means that once the 20-year deadline has expired, the offence will cease to be a criminal offence, and therefore I insist strongly that Minister Pelikán change his position and force the law enforcement authorities to take the findings of the Police of the Czech Republic, the other investigator, seriously, because there was a loss of half a billion crowns by the state. And if anyone thinks that we can forgive someone because it doesn't matter to anybody that the state is losing money, I don't think so, and that is why I'm suggesting at this moment that we interrupt this interpelation, and I want Minister Pelikán here to say openly what the law enforcement authorities will do before the statute of limitations comes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u56	Yes, I'm registering your motion to interrupt. I've called colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out. I'd like you to sign up with your cards again. At the moment, I am opening the vote on the motion to suspend this written interpelation. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 63, to which 98 are registered. For 89, against 5. I'm stating that the motion has been accepted, and I'm interrupting this interpellation. We will proceed to another interpelation and it is the interpelation of the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš on the procedure of the Ministry of Finance in clarifying the case of manipulation in the sale of state debts. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a 605 printing. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u57	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll be very brief. It is basically a generalisation of the cases that are being put on my desk as part of my parliamentary work. As far as Minister Pelikán is concerned, this is a strange thing, and this is what the Minister of Finance watches after the takeover of powers when the Czech Consolidation Bank, the Consolidation Agency, disappeared and went to the Ministry of Finance. So what is going on with these claims, how they are managed, and none other than the Minister can answer me, so I propose that we stop this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u58	Yes, we will vote on it immediately. I think the number hasn't changed. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of interrupting this interpelation. Initiating vote. Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 64, to which 102 are registered. For 97, against no one. I'm stating that the motion has been accepted, and I'm interrupting this interpellation. Another intervention that we should be looking at is the interpelling of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the toll system. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 606. But I don't see Mr Stanjura here. [[Voices from the bench: Falling.]] He's not excused, he's here somewhere, apparently if he's not in the bathroom, he ran away. [[The voices are getting stronger from the bench:]] Unfortunately, he's not here. We will therefore deal with further interpelation, and this is an interpelling to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who responded to the interpelation of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček on the issue of economically irresponsible, sloppy and grossly antisocial procedure of the Prime Minister, specific ministers and officials and legal bodies in the case of particularly serious damage to the economic interests of the Republic, the Moravian-Silesian region and hundreds of thousands of citizens of Karvina, Ostrava, Havířov and other cities and municipalities by tunneling state property and housing fund of former Ostrava-Carvinsky mines in favour of sponsor Václav Havel, ODS, TOP 09 and Public Affairs Zdeněk Bakala and spol. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 622. I am opening the debate, I will ask Mr Grebeníček, who is reporting for the debate, to the microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a case for the Republic and its citizens, the fatally disadvantageous privatisation of the Ostrava-Carvin mines and their housing fund, I have turned logically directly to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, because, above all, he and then the government as a whole could still and should take the necessary steps to remedy and overcome what is so hard and long-term affecting economically the entire Moravian-Silesian region. Yes, we are talking about tunning the state business property and housing fund of the former Ostrava-Carvinsky mines in favour of the distinctive entrepreneur Zdeněk Bakala and his associates. We are also talking about why tens of billions of crowns have disappeared, privatizers in the monopoly position of miners and owners of tens of thousands of mining flats have fled to tax havens, and why the state must now contribute hundreds of millions to the decline of mining, to support the unemployed miners, and to pay them profit in the form of housing contributions, to expensive rents in the so-called. Bachelor flats. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the Prime Minister quite specific questions about the fate of the region, the population affected and the activities of the government, which should act in a qualified manner. Ladies and gentlemen, as you could see, the Prime Minister has not answered my clearly formulated questions. He has not claimed personal responsibility for what has happened and what has been severely affected and what is still affecting the Moravian-Silesian region and a large number of its inhabitants. He does not accept any personal failures in the key functions he has taken in deciding on this strange privatisation at all. On the contrary, they claim that the initial conditions of privatisation were already set in 1990 by the Minister of Economy of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics Vladimír Dlouhý. Nothing against it, but my interview with the Prime Minister relates to 2004 when the State then represented by the Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Presidium of the National Property Fund, lawyer Bohuslav Sobotka, transferred to Karbon Invest and consequently to Zdeněk Bakala almost half of the property down OKD. Together with this, he transferred 44,000 flats to Karbon Invest and subsequently to Zdeněk Bakala -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u60	Ambassador, I'm so sorry to bother you, but there's a lot of noise. [[In a minute.]] Excellent. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Even though I didn't see it too well, I guess you did the right thing. But I reminded you of the transfer of apartments to Zdeněk Bakala and I was talking about 44,000 flats. Of course, it was also large non-residential premises and land back then. Flats for a ridiculously low estimated price of CZK 40,000 per piece and non-residential premises, land and amount of other property without any proper valuation and registration even free of charge, i.e. basically black. A number of properties, subsequently declared by a lawyer familiar with the machinations of the privatisation contract, were valued at zero. For example, various properties in Ostrava, but also a number of subsidiaries, such as OKD Transport, a large railway carrier, which was later awarded 1.5 billion, was rated as zero by the privatisation report. [[10.50 hours]] It is no wonder that many consider Bohuslav Sobotka responsible for the privatization transaction of OKD, when the state lost tens of billions, the buyer obtained property almost for free and a large number of tenants of mining flats were literally and cheated into the letter. Prime Minister Sobotka should show extraordinary activity in this matter, for example, he wrote recently, for example, the Czech Prime Minister Jiří Paroubek, because the Ministry of Finance under his leadership and for the seconds of his personal friend Radek Pokorný prepared OKD including 44 thousand mining flats for sale in 2004, i.e. at the time of Grossův' government, which approved the sale in autumn of the same year. Paroubek added that Sobotkův Ministry of Finance prepared contractual documents, which kind of resembled the contract between Zanzibar and Great Britain. Of course, the name Zdeněk Bakala is literally synonymous with North Moravia without any scruples, especially after selling certain multinational investment companies mining flats that he earned for a buck at a time when he promised how wisely he would manage in the region and how local people would profit from his activities. Bohuslav Sobotka described the sale of flats as a major moral and business failure of billionaire Bakala, because this step was not in line with the intention of OKD's privatisation agreement. Tens of thousands of cheated tenants today, however, do not just pay for necessity (?) and some Bakala's irresponsibleness. Today, North Moravia and the whole Republic pay particular attention to the fact that specific persons in specific positions of people around Carbon Invest and businesses around Bakala have allowed state property to be acquired at criminally low prices and, with the help of this property, to loot natural and labour resources and to drain the inhabitants of northern Moravia. So let the Prime Minister make it clear whether it was a pre-arranged fraud or whether Zdeněk cheated on Bakala, too. So Prime Minister Sobotka has a chance again to act like a man and admit what he has so far denied for some reason. He has the opportunity to admit in a manly way what he cowardly conceals and denies in reply to my written interpelation, namely that the privatisation of the OKD and the housing fund of that company was an illegal public support and a multibillion-dollar donation to the Karbon Invest and the peculiar entrepreneur Zdeněk Bakal. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u62	Thank you. I just want to ask - the Prime Minister is not here - are you going to propose an interruption? Mr Seďa is still reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u63	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I just found one piece of information I found on the diary website today. It concerns this written interpelation. The court will begin to deal with an 11-year-old case of privatization of OKD. The court will start discussing the privatisation of OKD from 2004 on Friday, where the prosecution said damage was caused over 5.7 billion. Kč. In the case, the expert Rudolf Doucha, who wrote an assessment on the valuation of the contribution of the National Property Fund, and two former Vice-Presidents of the Fund, Pavel Kuta and Jan Škurka, who were in charge of privatisation. The Ministry of Finance will join the criminal proceedings and demand payment of alleged damage. The National Property Fund had approximately 46% of its share in the mining company. The accused Doucha of Vox Consult calculated the value of the state part of the company to 2 billion. Kč. In his evaluation, the anti-corruption police expert passed away some parts of the property mines, including, for example, subsidiaries, recreational buildings, and miscalculated the value of almost 44,000 flats in the property of OKD. Prosecutors blame Doucha for perjury and false expert opinion, for which he is facing up to ten years in prison. The remaining two men are facing up to eight years in prison for violating their obligation to manage foreign property, because they were based on the wrong assessment they ordered in preparation for privatisation. On the basis of the opinion, the Ministry of Finance was sent documents which allegedly contained a miscalculation of the OKD value. All three of them, according to the media, reject the blame. That's how much information he has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u64	Thank you. In fact, Mr Kalousek is reporting. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u65	Just a brief remark, Madam President, thank you for the floor. I understand that for some opposition Members it is too tempting not to notice when the Minister of Finance was the former Prime Minister at the time, but as a relatively long-term finance minister, I would like to point out that wanting to blame the Minister of Finance for somewhere in the depths of his office being manipulated by an expert opinion, that is a very brave structure, and I think it is completely pointless. I think we should find something in the government that its members are really responsible for. This is a very imaginary case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u66	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Mr. Grebeníček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Seďa presented here is information from the Czech News Agency. I also know about this, and I observe very closely that on Friday, that is tomorrow, the trial really begins in the matter. And now I'm just wondering if he's gonna stay on that list of defendants, or is this list gonna spread even more about Bohuslav Sobotka? That can happen. Or he'll be there as a witness. I'll be surprised. Of course, one thing is certain. Given that this is a very serious problem which concerns the Prime Minister himself, I consider it appropriate that he should be able to take part in the negotiations and be able to comment on what is directly relevant to him. Therefore, I propose that we discontinue the discussion of this interpelation until the next date of written interpelations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u68	Yes, thank you. But it's a procedural proposal, so I'm gonna vote on it. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 65, to which 124 are registered, for 43, against 39. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will continue to discuss this interpellation. Please, Mr. Luzar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. By your means, I would like to point out to my absent colleague Kalousek here that he would be entirely right about the fact that the minister has that responsibility divided if there is some material in his office in the shadows that he cannot, of course, have all the information about. But we know from open sources that the approval of the privatisation of OKD was accompanied by explanations and debates about the fact that everything is not clean there and that it is not problem-free. There were also opinions against the expert opinion. Someone just had to take the responsibility and decide that according to the expert's opinion, which was already attacked as undervalued at the time of its creation. And that responsibility is usually taken by the person responsible in a decent society, i.e. The minister who's presenting the material. And at the time, Mr Sobotka was the Minister of Finance. So the responsibility that he took upon himself that he relied on those materials of officials who were already attacked, that they were wrong, he took on himself, and I will be very curious to see how the court will decide in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u70	I thank you, and since it's 11 o'clock, I interrupt the point of written interpelation. Before we proceed with the program, I'll read the apologies that came to my desk. Mr Adámek apologizes from today's meeting between 11:00 and 14:00. Between 9:00 and 13:00 today, Mr Radim Fiala apologizes. Minister Jurečka apologizes from 10.45 until the end of this morning's meeting. From today, Mr Komárek apologizes, between 11.30 and 13.00 and between 16.30 and 19.00 for work reasons. Mr Adamec apologizes from today's day. Mr Milan Urban apologizes for today's meeting between 9 and 11 and between 9.45 and 11.15 apologies for today's meeting Mr David Kasal. Ladies and gentlemen, as a single piece of information, I say that we will discuss paragraph 206 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. We should now proceed to discuss the issues approved by the programme. I'm registering Mr. Sklenák's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u71	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I'll take the floor with the motion for a meeting. In view of the course of the House of Deputies meeting this week, I propose that we now return to the originally approved programme, as approved by the Organising Committee, so that we now continue to discuss the first reading block contracts, then the second reading block, as originally approved, with the request that we be able to comply with the request of the Minister of Education and as the first point to ratify the Convention against Doping, which is paragraph 146 of the House Press 482. So much for my proposal today, and at the same time, I would like to propose amendments to tomorrow's agenda. I propose that after the fixed points 132 and 131 we include five proposals that we have at second reading, namely point 5 on the property of the Czech Republic, printing 460, then points 7 and 8, which are proposals related to the termination of pension savings, prints 493 and 494, then point 3 on insurance, printing 414, and then point 20 on road traffic, printing 471. And then we would continue with those points that are fixed there, which are points 63, 62, 61. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u72	Thank you. Anyone else applying for the program? It's not like that. If I may, I'll sum it up and ask Mr. Sklenák to check on me. The first proposal was to continue today according to the originally approved programme, which were the contracts first and second reading, but at the same time you are asking for a prior assignment of paragraph 146 before these contracts in the first and second readings. It's not point 146, it's point 138. Yes, it's point 138. Excellent. I ask if we can vote on this as a whole. President of the KDU Club, Mr Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u73	I am so sorry, Madam President. I don't know if I overheard, but just in case, I'd like to ask you to include me in tomorrow's press item number 575 on the State Land Office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u74	Please, what's the point number? Is that point 59?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u75	Point 59, thank you for the clue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u76	You propose that we place the House press 59 on a fixed basis, and Mr Sklenák proposes to include points 5, 7, 8, 30 and 20 after points 131, 132. And 23. [[Help in the hall: 3 and 20.]] That's what I said. Okay. Very well, let us return to the first proposal to act today according to the originally approved programme, i.e. first and second reading contracts. With priority rights, Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u77	I am sorry, the originally approved draft programme is a programme approved by the Chamber of Deputies. There's no such thing. I would ask that we vote on what we have to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-001-205.u78	Okay, let me rephrase that. Mr Sklenák has proposed that, as a first item, we should now discuss paragraph 138 after the approval of the programme and then continue with the treaties in first and second reading. Is that okay? Can we vote on this as a whole? On a single basis. Excellent. We will vote first on the inclusion of paragraph 138 as the first item on today's day. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 66, to which 141 are registered, for 129, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now consider another proposal, and that is that we continue to discuss the treaties at first and second reading. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 67, to which 143 are registered, for 130, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. The next proposal to be put to the vote, Mr Sklenák, on tomorrow's agenda, after the fixed points 131 and 132, will be to include points 5, 7, 8,3 and 20. Can we vote on this as a whole? Is there no objection to that? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 68, to which 144 are registered, for 90, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. [[11.10 hours]] We will now look at Mr Mihola's proposal, and that is the inclusion of paragraph 59 on tomorrow's agenda after the already fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 69, to which 144 are registered, for 108, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will therefore continue according to the modified programme. Now we should look at the point
