ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse /house print 444/ - first reading I ask that the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who did so, and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Ladislav Velebný, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We interrupted the general debate on Friday, May 22. So we will now continue the general debate. Mrs Balaštíková and Mrs Kovářová are signing up for the floor. I'll get Mrs. Balaštíková to the microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u2	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. At the last meeting of the House, some of you raised objections and comments about the amendment to the Act on Market Power. I'd like to respond to some of them. All those who do business want to earn and get rich on their stores. But trying to make as much profits as possible to us along with the chain has driven practices that are unfair, unethical, and someone might say that they are directly extortionist. As early as 2009, when the current legal standard arose, there was a need to adjust relations between suppliers and customers. What was the reason? It was the unfair practices of the chain of trade. New Act No. 395/2009 Sb. He's dealt with them somehow, and it turns out not enough. Members of the European Economic and Social Committee have also responded to the behaviour of the chains and have also carried out a radical review of existing competition regulation in order to ensure the balance of trade between the Contracting Parties in European countries. It is not only about protecting the weaker partners, but also the protection of the economy of each state. The report points out that there is a significant fear factor on the part of suppliers, stemming from the termination of the contractual relationship, and is related to the continued functioning of these companies. It prevents them from seeking a settlement of relationships through court proceedings. And here's the answer, why so few disputes have so far been decided on behalf of our suppliers. It's caused the fear factor of the flip-flop. Of having to leave the place where they sell their production. The report points out that unfair trade practices lead to market distortions, downsizing investment and innovation in production. Consumers will pay for the market failure in the field of protection and are particularly threatened by the economic interests of individual states. The report stresses that it is most noticeable to see this through the control of business entities from other Member States in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, where large-scale food pipelines are fully under the control of business entities from other Member States. Since often blackmailing trading conditions do not allow local manufacturers to participate in the chain market at all, the entire agri-food sector is being liquidated in the region and countries traditionally self-sufficient in the production of basic food have largely lost their food safety. Domestic production thus replaces imports from countries with a highly dubious quality. These conclusions have, please, been agreed by 140 of the 150 members of the European Economic and Social Committee. So much for the report from this committee. So if anyone thinks there is no need to correct such negotiations, I will try to clarify this from the experience of Czech suppliers. Practice. From a particular life. And please consider whether you like it or not. And I'm warning you, it's not imaginary numbers, it's all traceable, and it's public information. You're the supplier of one of the chains. The subscriber, i.e. the string, agrees with your offer, but from the billed amount starts to subtract: 4,5 % of the central warehouse refund, 14.1 of the financial bonus, 2 percent of the refund bonus, 1.7 master bonus from the turnover achieved, then add a growth bonus and a bonus for image and advertising. And that together amounts to almost 40 percent of the billed amount. So you're now worth less than $100 worth of goods. I want to ask you if you'd still like to supply such a supplier. And that's not all. You have to count on more payments. You have to pay for being even put on the list of your suppliers. You have to pay for all promotional materials. And as the material will look, no one will talk to you about it at all. For placing the goods in the most advantageous place. This is perhaps the only thing I could understand that the goods placed at the cash register, where the customers stand, should have their reasons, and maybe you should pay some change for that. You will pay payments for additional commitments, which actually allow the currently ambiguous contractual terms. You will pay transport and services fees. And besides, you're going to pay for other things and other things that the chain just makes up. And because it controls 63 percent of the market, and you have to sell your production somewhere, you're finally going to do it, and in the end, you're glad you're not selling it to a negative. And that's not all. Finally, you may be put under such pressure to deliver to the business chain under their brand, and your company will lose the product, the work of your people who have worked on its development and its marketing. If you don't want any of this, whoever says he doesn't have significant market power will place another product next to your product, similar. Except for yours, he's gonna give you a much bigger slap. And you will become completely uncompetitive, your product will stop selling, and I will make you as a string to leave alone and happy. Consider whether you will be able to develop your company under these conditions, upgrade your production and also have technology to restore. I'm just suggesting where we're going. [[15.10 hours]] Some ministers of our governments from the early 1990s said, "What we won't be here, we'll get it." But we've forgotten what they said. It's happening today. It's happening big, we're making less and less, we're importing more. And I have a few numbers for you from publicly available sources. The average consumption of poultry meat, eggs, pigmeat is still in the same figures. What is different to us is, of course, imports into our Republic. So while domestic consumption in 2004 was covered by domestic production of 88.7 % for poultrymeat, in 2014 it was only 69,4%. The decrease in domestic production opened the room for imports, which amounted to 72 thousand tonnes in 2004, but already reached 147.7 thousand tonnes in 2014, an increase of almost 104 percent. The consumption of eggs decreased slightly, but in 2001 the domestic consumption of eggs was covered by production of 100 per cent, in 2014 only 83 per cent. The worst part is the consumption of pork. Domestic production in 2008 was covered by 74 percent, in 2014 only 53 percent. And imports into the Czech Republic in 2000 were up to 5 thousand tonnes, while in 2005 it was already 100 thousand tonnes and in the year it was 241 thousand tonnes and according to indicators for the first quarter of 2015, it will be 266 thousand tonnes by the end of the year. I am here for you to imagine how huge a mass of meat it is - the bed space of a refrigerated or freezer truck covers 18 tons. So they're bringing 15,000 trucks in the pork meat. And I just want to ask those who have thought about it and who have discussed it, if you have calculated how many jobs for our people we have lost in this amount of meat, how many contributions to the Treasury. I could keep reading what we've lost. These are the concrete results of the Czech agricultural policy during the period preceding the governments. It is a way to destroy our agricultural and food production. As little self-sufficiency as possible, import everything from elsewhere and prepare conditions for foreign companies. Such efforts certainly had the best motives. Now I don't mean some of you, I mean the ones who made the decisions. I'll be back by last week. There was a question as to why suppliers were not included in the amendment. Indeed, it is not at all known that large multinational food companies, which are also oligopoly, would make use of their market position among their customers, for example demanding a fee for them to include them in their sales or billing them their transport. However, it is also necessary to state the cases that some large-scale producers can say that there will be no more such large-scale producers. That can undoubtedly happen. But it wasn't recorded. They like to point out that Coca-Cola or Plzeňský prazdroj have taken advantage of their privileged position on the market and have abused significant market power. But I'm saying - no, they just normally decide not to accept these ugly terms. And all of a sudden, those little chains didn't like the fact that these two big guys decided, "We're not gonna go in there and take the economic loss of a customer like that." You see, you see. On the contrary, the normal producer or food supplier does not have a real alternative where to sell production because they actually control 63 per cent of the market. Chains say that they collect 80 percent of goods from Czech suppliers. This is true according to the survey, but it does not mean that it is 80 per cent of Czech goods. And why does the UOHS have so few administrative proceedings and fines imposed? Then I will answer you from the report of the European Economic Social Committee, which states: The situation in these trade relations is so serious that the European Economic and Social Committee recommends taking into account the existence of a fear factor. What's the fear factor? This is the explicit or unspoken threat of termination of cooperation. And everyone who delivers there employs people. He thinks if he can't deliver, maybe his employees will lose their jobs. Perhaps the whole family will be destroyed, because both husbands often work there. Well, maybe even from this threat, the suppliers will eventually back off. And it goes on to say: Every attempt to regulate unfair commercial practices must count on the fear factor. This means that it is not possible to expect a complaint or testimony from the supplier in the relevant administrative or judicial proceedings. And that is, please, the answer to why we have few cases of abuse of significant market power solved. Some of you have said that trade chains will reduce sales of Czech food as a result of the adoption of a law on significant market power. Some of you may not even realize that we are protecting Czech suppliers by reading the amendment, but we are protecting all suppliers who supply, i.e. foreign suppliers, and therefore there is no reason not to withdraw from Czech suppliers. It is a misleading argument that they like to use chains and also the Union of Trade and Tourism, because it is mainly their organization. The adoption of a new law on significant market power will affect consumers. And what's the reason? I think it's the opposite. The amendment to the Act on Major Market Power could be an asset. Thanks to the removal of the so-called back margin of trade, the financial scope for reducing food prices will be released. Small and medium-sized producers will be more protected, so it is assumed that the desired quality Czech food will appear more on the shelves of markets. Another indirect effect could be to increase employment in the regions. By approving a new law on significant market power, food prices will increase. The impact on food prices according to the impact assessment of RIA regulation on the law is zero. The effect should be the opposite. By removing the back margins, the annual bonuses, the flip-flop fees, the shelves, we could make the food cheaper, unless the chains leave their lusts to still have the big profits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u3	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and wait for my colleagues to calm down, because the noise... He's stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u4	And if our lovely chains don't get their profits from these unfair business practices, they're really gonna raise those prices. But the only reason for this will be to try to preserve what they continue to mine in our country. And as it is with the love of the Czech Republic, it will really only show us the future time. Maybe I'm wrong too. The adoption of a new law on significant market power will affect the state on taxes paid. I miss a colleague here who's an accounting specialist. We've really downloaded all the tax returns, balance sheets, chain profit and loss accounts, and the world wonder, they're not that bad. Anyone who pays taxes in our country must be commended. It should also be noted, however, that some received economic incentives when they joined the Czech Republic, tax-deducted property rents from property developers and after taking over buildings into their property, tax write-offs ran again. It's nothing illegal. It's just, they've had a lot of cuts in the state register. And if the chain shows one to two percent of the profits from the sales turnover in tens of billions, then I think that we, who think we can do a little bit of the math, should say that something is probably not quite right. And I would leave questions about this for a completely different discussion. [[15.20 hours]] It is true that the chains belong to one of the biggest employers. It is reported that the average wage in chains is around 23,000. That's an admirable number. However, when I asked, in one chain, what is the average wage for workers' functions, how much our shopkeepers, cashiers and warehousekeepers receive, the director made a phone call to the economic department, and I understood that this would be a big problem to calculate. However, in the SOKR report, I learned that Kaufland has an average of 2,000 wages higher than the minimum wage in the Czech Republic for workers' functions. That means the wage is about 11,300. Even this is an admirable number for our cashiers, who sit there for eight ten hours, Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, Fridays. I think we need to commend them. Because that is how foreign food buyers behave, and they have social feelings for our citizens. There will be a threat to exports of Czech food. According to the evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation on the law on food exports, the amendment to the Act on significant market power does not fall. And it doesn't fall because she only regulates the internal market. But I understand that we may be giving chains a chance to show us how their meaningless market power is going to spin us if we allow ourselves as politicians to pass the law that is against them. It's possible. And just to conclude, I would like to ask that, in the criticism of the proposed amendment, you do not forget us Czechs, Moravians, Silesians, that it is important for all of us that our societies and our citizens prosper, as well as our state. For us the Czech legislature should be the main task. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u5	Thank you, and I have four factual points here at the moment. First, I ask Mr Bendl, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Pilný and Mr Kalousek as the last one so far. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u6	Thank you for the floor. I suppose I like Mrs. Margit Balaštíková because we are connected by love of horses. But when I listened to her here, it made me sad. I remember, before 1989, I listened in every news to the solution of customer-contracting relationships. It was, every day the regime massaged us, the result was that there was nothing at all in the stores. It makes me feel like I'm looking for that capitalist enemy who's responsible for someone not taking away what's being made in Bohemia and all that. I have to say, it's absolutely, but it's a completely fake journey. Among other things, it needs to be recalled here that we have a modern tool to guard anyone's monopoly position on the market, an anti-monopoly office. If something doesn't work there, let's talk about it seriously and seriously, we're definitely ready for that. But I must also remind you here that however much Czech agriculture has problems, its prosperity is growing. This can be seen in specific figures, when profits in Czech agriculture are larger every year. It is because we do not have such a law here, which, in my deep conviction, will ultimately oppose those Czech farmers and food professionals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u7	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Stanjura's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u8	Thank you, then I'll apply normally to the debate, so just three brief comments on the speech. First, the Office for Competition Protection works perfectly, at least in the opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic. I don't stand for that opinion. Since the government has nominated an existing boss, it is therefore satisfied with his work and his office's work. So why are we complaining that the UOHS here in the application of the law went wrong when he has such an excellent boss? And then I really want to appreciate two 'o's': the courage of the Member and optimism. The courage that we showed yesterday that its chairman's companies only received 1.5 billion in the last year. tax discounts. And she here boldly, and I must say, boldly, criticizes the granting of tax discounts under investment incentives. I agree that this is not fair and that it is distorting the market, and I consider it brave of you. But criticize the companies that got 1.5 billion in 2014. one company or one group. And the optimism, and it doesn't exactly take my economic thinking away from me, even in the RIA that the ÚOHS processed, is admitting that the impact on those prices is possible for customers. And you, on the one hand, say, we have an excellent plan. Those traders will raise their purchase prices and lower their sales prices. I really don't understand. You said here that even though they're going to buy at higher prices, actually by getting rid of the back margin, so the result of buying the money is that I'm going to sell cheaper. Well, I envy your optimism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u9	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Pilný in fact, then Mr Kalousek and then Mrs Balaštíková, all factual points. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure I have nothing against it to tap the significant market power and chains a little over the fingers for their practices. But as a person who doesn't exactly love the regulation and entry of the state into customer-contracting relationships, I just lack certain logic. If we push those chains to buy Czech products under different conditions, I'd start importing goods from abroad that they don't know and don't need, and it's happening to a large extent the same way. I would suggest that we help farmers. Because what we're doing for them so far isn't much. When we look at what their ties are like when they put their stalls on the farmers' markets or when they rent shops, there's probably a way. Why instead of promoting marketing brands for huge money at the Department of Agriculture, like Klasa and others I can't even name, why don't we give this marketing money directly to farmers so they can promote their specific products? So why are we not looking for alternative ways to help these producers who produce high-quality food, who take this as a mission rather than a trade? And why are we going to be problematic in punishing the chains that will surely find their way? I'm saying I have nothing against taping them over my fingers, but I lack any logic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u11	Thank you, and with another de facto Mr Kalousek, then Mrs Balaštíková, Mr Pavera, and so far the last de facto Mr Bendl. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u12	Thank you. I may surprise you, but I'm not taking any criticism. I would like to thank Mrs Balaštíková very much for all of us, because President Babiš repeated several times that YES is a political group of middle-rights with social feelings. And I still had no idea what it was in the grandmother's book. And now, after Mrs Balaštíková's speech, I understand. So thank you for this education. I'm just asking that from now on we call Babišův's middle-right politics with Babišův's social feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u13	I beg you, Mrs Balaštík, with another de facto Mrs Balaštíková. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u14	A note about the Anthropopolitan Authority. The report of the European Economic and Social Committee also states that there is a need to revise the laws on anti-monopoly proceedings. That's one thing. As for my colleague Stanjura, it was not so, perhaps I misjudged you for misinterpreting it. All I'm saying is that if the chains are telling us, and we have to realize that the economy depends on how our manufacturers, the companies that are here work, how they pay taxes here, if they grow on them and ours are stomping on them, I don't think the economy will move. That's all I was saying. That they can convince us now how serious they were about their love for the Czech Republic. And they're not gonna raise the prices because they're not gonna pull them out, the discounts, from our suppliers. And we need to realize that we are artificially supporting them. I'm not saying we have social feelings. But, folks, I have half my family abroad. And since I haven't decided to leave and stayed here, at least I want to stay Čech. I don't know about you, but I'd much rather support those who grew up here in the Czech Republic, there are taxes here and there are Čech! I am proud to be Čech! I don't know where you stand. And the Czech citizens sent me here. Certainly not, certainly not the foreign ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u15	Thank you, and please, with the de facto Mr Pavera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will just briefly respond to some of the things that have fallen. I fully agree with my colleague Pilný that, indeed, and I said so in my speech last time, we should rather support local, regional food producers. And it is from the region from which I come, from Hlučín, that there is one example where one food manufacturer has established its own stores in the region and sells its products there, sells them successfully and competes with large food suppliers. So I think that's how small salesmen can get to people by producing quality products and by opening their own stores. So I think there's a way our manufacturers can get on with the food, of course. Let us support farmers, support regional producers and do not make unnecessary interventions in supplier-customer relations, because then we would also have to intervene in customer-contracting relations in construction and other sectors, because there are also problems, even there is a lot of pressure. Just take the stand. The State itself distorts the maturity of invoices by increasing them to 90 or more days, thereby distorting the entire market. So even there, we should make order, not just in these things that we've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u17	Thank you. Just for the record, all those who have reported with factual remarks: you are in order, there are seven factual remarks at this time, I will call you gradually. I know about you, please hold. I will now ask Mr Bendl, the rapporteur will prepare himself with de facto action. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u18	Thank you for the floor. Speaking of Czech Republic, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he could arrange for the Chamber of Deputies to address the issue in the agricultural field of the Czech Minister of Agriculture. It is your government, Prime Minister, it is already several times this meeting, when we are discussing the issue of agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture has much worse participation in negotiations than the Prime Minister, which I consider fatal failure to fulfil his obligations. And it would be a good thing for such an important law, which concerns the importance of market power in the sale of agricultural and food products, that the Czech minister of this government should attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[voice from the plinth: Moravian]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u19	Thank you and I will just use this moment to load the apology of the Minister of Agriculture, who apologizes for working reasons until 16.45 hours. And now the rapporteur's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, since the name of the competition authority has fallen several times, just to clarify. This House press responds to the findings made by this office during the period of validity of the law. The proposed amendment removes the interpretational difficulties associated with the fundamental concept of significant market power and thus facilitates the competition authority's decision-making. The law in this form will bring more effective, easier applicable rules, thus contributing to the improvement of the business environment in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u21	Thank you, and please, with another de facto Mr Laudát, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u22	Thank you. More or less, I wanted to say what my colleague Bendl said. Firstly, it concerns the issue of agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture, as said here, is Moravian, as well as Czech, Moravia and Silesia, is gone. That's weird. Two. It is a special segment of competition. I therefore lack Minister Mládek for this law. I thank my colleague Balaštíková for her performance, which her guru, Mr Babiš, did not last, so he ran away. I'd quite like him to be here. I saw that he expressed great doubt and said something in the style that the law is also wrong or useless. It's missing, too. If this is how this is to be discussed... Otherwise, what my colleague Balaštíková said. I'll express myself, I don't want to delay, I'm ready, and I'm not gonna fit in today, one-and-a-half-to-two-hour performance, where I want to explain in detail what you're doing. I'm just glad that my colleague here said that, because if I'm the YES and KDU movement, given what sounded like at their convention, I'm glad that you've already confirmed that in part to 50% today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u23	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. He's downloading his de facto. Then I will ask Mr Urban, Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, here, as usual, it puts itself in extreme positions: white or black or you can put other colors there. I think it's got more shades again. It's common knowledge that the strings are acting a little unstandard compared to their mother countries. If you look in their mother countries, they probably won't dare do what Mrs Balaštíková said to her suppliers. So be confident and show them that we don't like this, I think it's good. On the other hand, it's like saying: Czechs to Čech, that's probably not going well at the moment. I also wish that we could say a crown here unnecessarily across the border of the Czech Republic, but we are an export country that is dependent on what it produces, so it usually takes away. Our market is very small, so, of course, there are large distortions. This state does not live up to what taxes will be paid by the chains, but by what the Czech industry will sell abroad, because the Czech industry accounts for about 32 percent of the gross domestic product. So in these colors, as I said, let's try to look at it: neither black nor white, but it has a lot of shades, so take some measures that, in part, as the chairman of the Economic Committee may have said, maybe a little bit, maybe a little bit, click the strings to say, oh, be careful, it's probably true, this is no longer a country on some edge of the European Union, some weird Eastern country with a weird mentality, but we are just regular members of the European Union, so we are going to be here and we have to act like we are at home. I think that's probably the goal of the law. Otherwise, as members of the European Union, we can hardly do anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u25	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and I would like to ask Mr Kučera to prepare Mrs Balaštíková. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u26	Hello, and thank you for the floor. I was also a little lacking in my speech by my colleague Balaštíková in such a final appeal to the Čech. Yesterday, a colleague from social democracy unfortunately embarked on an ANO MP thinking he was part of the Dawn movement. Well, after this speech, I think he'd be wrong too. But I want to say one thing, and I've been pointing that out for quite a while. This law is called the Act on major market power in the sale of agricultural and food products. And so far, no one has answered me why we are dealing with agricultural products, why we are dealing with food products and why we are not dealing with consumer goods, which, of course, is also greatly affected by market power, i.e. supplies to hypermarkets, which buy goods now almost exclusively from third countries, do not buy Czech goods. That's where the market somehow managed, I don't know if it was right or wrong, I don't want to judge. I would really like to know the answer to the question of why we are dealing with agricultural products, of course I consider this important, but why we do not deal with consumer goods that form an important component of the very chains that buy them and, of course, continue to sell them. I'm hoping to find out from someone here. I don't know if the Prime Minister is having any discussions here... Ministers are not present, neither the Minister of Industry and Trade nor the Minister of Agriculture. And since I consider the question essential, I would suggest that this item be interrupted until the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Industry and Trade attends this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u27	Thank you. Since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on it without delay. Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to sign up with your cards. [[Some Members come to the hall.]] We will take the vote on the proposal to interrupt this point until the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Industry and Trade are present. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 204, to which 130 are registered, for 34, against 66. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. So we will continue to discuss this further, and I will ask Mrs Balaštíková for a microphone with a factual remark. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u28	I just wanted to say to my colleague Pilný that we are not dealing with subsidies for agricultural policy. It's gonna have to be different to help these farmers, but the finances aren't dealing with the law on significant market power. And as for the answer for my colleague Kučera. The opinion of the Economic and Social Committee also deals with this, and it could indeed be found in that opinion for him. It means that other chain suppliers, which are toy manufacturers, you mentioned gardening needs, so they are not affected by these unfair practices here. The European Committee on Economic and Social Affairs has been looking into this and has also examined whether other areas of trade are affected, and the answer is that they do not want to modify the others in any way because they are not affected in the same way as food producers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u29	Thank you and please make a factual comment on Mr Laudát's microphone, Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u30	Thank you. I have to react again. It's perfectly normal in a market economy that you either sell or don't sell. When you produce something that's unsellable, you have to find another product range, or you're done. That's what a market economy is built on. Moreover, it was said here that it would almost be immoral to have a profit. Business is done in order to have a profit. And even our law thinks that if you've been in loss for three years, that you should cancel the company, I feel. So I don't know. I feel like I'm in a different world. I feel like there should be a regroup of forces here anyway. And some of us should sit on the left from the middle. I'm excited, and I don't understand. And as far as the Minister of Agriculture is concerned. Let's hear it here - he's been doing some activities for a while, negotiating with the chain. And I didn't get out of him until now, whether he negotiated or the negotiations went bankrupt, whether they were arrogant... And to tell you the truth, really dig into competition by writing something in this way with Rafaj, without the experts... You know what you can do? The exact opposite of what you want. Even if I don't push my colleague Balaštíková's evil intentions. But a number of good intentions are paved the way to hell. The law is useless, it's damaging part of our market, it's crooking the market. I mean, you guys go back mentally before 1989, and you know how it turned out. We used to be the eighth country in the world, we're somewhere in our 40s and in many cases tragically worse. Well, I don't know why we have to go back to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u31	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Kučera, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u32	Thank you for the floor. I thank Mrs Balaštíková for explaining that she said quite clearly here that the suppliers of consumer goods are not so significantly affected by the significant market power. And there's only one reason. I know that, and I know why it's like this. Because manufacturers and suppliers of consumer goods have found other distribution channels and have not really stepped on that, in quotation marks, dictation as you speak of it, just large chains. That means they buy the big chains elsewhere, and they find other distribution channels. I'll give you a specific example from practice. I used to work in a company in the '90s that made connecting materials. We had a supervisory board there. Its member was such an older master, well, a very old master, such a professor already retired, and he said: I was now in one of the unnamed hypermarkets, let me not name him here, and there they sell the screws we produce here for 400 crowns. And you, Mr. Director, are selling them to another customer for 40 crowns. How is it possible that there's such a big difference? And the real reason was that we sold for 40 crowns, and if we sold for 41 crowns, no one bought it from us. If we were supplying it to another distribution channel, we were selling it at a significantly higher price. That's just the way it is with the suppliers. We have found other distribution channels, other distribution networks, and I think we have made a significant margin and that we have realized significant volumes. It's just about how the market is crooked or not crooked by laws and state intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u33	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mrs Balaštík, the de facto Mrs Balaštíková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u34	Yes, colleague Kučera, you're right. They found other distribution channels, but not exactly those small stores, like the gardeners selling toys. But retail stores for food have almost been disposed of. So if we were to look for those small distribution channels, you're the reason we'd be back to the old days. 'Cause who wiped out those little stores that were about 5.5,000. And there's 2.5,000 of them.? It was the business chains. You're right, it would be nice. But then we'd have to get out of those 14-day purchases back in line, like the chains tell us -- you're gonna have to line up, you're gonna have to go to five places, I'm gonna buy rolls, I'm gonna buy butter. So that's how it would be. And let's say, what is necessary for life? So that every day you'd have something to do with that stomach. But you don't need a spade or connecting material every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u35	Thank you. And before I invite Mr Urban to take action, I will ask all of you to contact your colleagues through me. Thank you and I will ask Mr Urban. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u36	Thank you. My colleagues, my colleagues, they won't give it to me, so I'm gonna try it again. If you look at how it works in the Czech Republic, isn't it a bit of a liberalization and privatization that has overcome all possible boundaries in this field in the 1990s? And I don't want to say who did it, we all kind of know that. But if you look at the number of chains per population, I think we're going to be way ahead in the European Union. If you look at some of the original Member States of the European Union, they certainly did not allow it there. I would like to see how the chains really behave, for example, in France, towards their suppliers. Have someone do the analysis. If they act the same way they do in the Czech Republic, we're wrong. But I don't think we're next door. It's just a little crooked in here. [[15.50 hours]] And if František Laudát, through the President, that agriculture in the EU is a market, it is not a market. And maybe that is why Czech farmers pay a little bit for it, because the original Member States have developed a completely different principle and system in this system. So it's a little more complicated than that. But that they need to get through their fingers, I think they need that. Maybe I can catch one more story. We tried something like this a long time ago. Some ten or twelve years ago, with the then Minister of Agriculture, we tried to invite all representatives of chains in the Czech Republic, which are basically the same as today, to one round table. Do you know what the reaction was? They sent us somewhere! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u37	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Kučera in fact, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u38	I really see the socialist effort to regulate. That's perfectly legitimate, and I'm not lowering it. It's just one of the views of how to move on the market. I want to say another thing. If we're talking about who and how much they're taking from local manufacturers, from local vendors, and we want to deal with it with some special law, I think there's another way to deal with it. And let us see just how it is in developed European countries. The solution is called corporate social responsibility. We're gonna talk about the Public Procurement Act. It is really possible to define exactly this, how such a social responsibility has companies, how the company is to treat both its employees and its surroundings and its suppliers and its customers. That's all I can define in that I'll say modern corporate social responsibility. Let's get this over with, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u39	Thank you and please now to Mr Laudát's microphone, Mrs Balaštíková will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u40	Thank you. I just have a completely different idea about how the economy works in the world and in the regions today. I don't know, maybe someone remembered when I saw the chairman of the club YES applauding Mrs. Balaštíková. You know, I'm afraid you really do have good intentions and you'll achieve the opposite effect. And I am quite surprised when a Member here - if we were to act in your opinion, through Madam President, Mr Babiš is simply never here. I do not distinguish today - to distinguish the Czech farmer. Whoever comes here and acts according to our laws has the right to be here and is our citizen. What in God's name is this? I'm just staying completely distracted if you realize what's been said here. I therefore believe that Members of the KSČM would also be blushing. And I realize the specifics of agriculture, but every major has some specifics, and I'm just saying, this law is useless. We have even once again signed a bill to abolish this unnecessary and harmful law. I really don't know. And if my colleague Urban here said, "Bring the studies - I don't want anything else." I just heard KDU on TV at the weekend convention, I don't go there directly, we're gonna want analysis, RIA. I ask where the RIA is under this law, the impact assessment of both the private and public sector, where any analysis of the law is, the underlying materials, how it works around, how else, where the underlying materials are, what is the situation with us, where there is some information report about it, simply what the UOHS produced because it has butter on its head, so where is there any information report? I gotta go. It's just an analysis of the fact that it's really justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u41	Thank you. I shall ask Mrs Balaštíková, in fact, to prepare Mr Pilný, also in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u42	For all careless colleagues: RIA is about this, the basis for this was, the law ran the ordinary legislative process. All you have to do is look at the eKLEP every now and then. And as for the introduction of socialist affairs, I do not know if France, England, Germany are socialist countries, because there is a law on significant market power everywhere. So it may also be enough to look at the Parliamentary Institute. There was a Balaštíková who set up how these laws work in other countries. It's there. All you have to do is look.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u43	Thank you. I'll ask Mr Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u44	Thank you again for the floor. I'm sure I agree that we should adopt laws that bring more benefit than harm. We're adopting the law, or we're talking about a law on significant market power, and so far I've heard here that the number of retail outlets is dropping. Look how open Vietnamese stores are 24x7, curfews, and we'll still create a tool for them to block electronic sales records here. There was talk of the Czech Republic. I'm sure patriotism is a beautiful thing, but it's not part of the law. We will not force the company's social responsibility by this law either. As far as the subsidy fight is concerned, we've already lost it, so nothing's happening either. So these are arguments that have nothing to do with the law, and if that's not enough, we're gonna use the magic word of the Minister of Finance, Babiš. He's responsible for everything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u45	Thank you and I will now ask the Prime Minister's priority right, and then Mrs Kovářová will be prepared. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u46	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me also to be involved in the debate and to respond to some of the questions and initiatives that have emerged, particularly in this part of the debate today. I'm sure there's still a chance for me to comment on some things later. But I would like to respond to the fact that there has been a very often demand in the debate that we do not adopt any special legislation here. I must say that we do not accept it, we are merely amending it, the law has existed here for many years. I just want to remind you that even when we were in opposition, the law was not abolished. That means there were various majority in the Chamber of Deputies, but none of them canceled it. So first of all, and first of all, I am saying that we are not introducing new legislation here, but I am repeatedly stressing here, and I have already said it twice here, it is an amendment to the existing law and it is a amendment to the law that should improve it on the basis of the application practice that we have been through. This is what I think is standard procedure if legislation is adopted, if legislation is applied in some way. This legislation is not applied by the Minister of Agriculture Mr Jurečka, nor by the Minister of Industry and Trade Mr Mládek, but by the Office for the Protection of Competition. So it is perfectly logical that, at the time we agreed to prepare an amendment to the law, that we also consulted it with the Office for the Protection of Competition, in order to find out what experience it had and what requirements it itself has for how this legislation should be adapted. So it's not standard, it's standard procedure. And since the Office for the Protection of Competition does not belong to the Ministry of Industry, it does not belong to the Ministry of Agriculture either, so I took this role as a person who coordinates questions concerning the Office for the Protection of Competition in the Government. That is why the Prime Minister is the promoter of this proposal. The application experience with the application of this law since 2010 was simply crucial and the aim was therefore to make the most of it. The second point concerns whether, therefore, existing competition law is not enough for us. I've heard arguments here that we're actually indulging the existing competition law, that we should use it, that it should be used by the UOHS and that it's something that's some kind of real tool. I am afraid that is not the case, because the existing competition rules are not applicable to the situation. [[16.00 hours]] And we cannot make up competition rules in the Czech Republic. After all, we are part of the European Union and there are principles under which competition law is governed throughout the European Union in order to maintain the single market and to maintain comparable conditions in that single market. So we can't completely change the rules of competition law here alone. Both the competition law and the Union regulation only recognise two basic types of infringement of competition law. It's a forbidden deal, and it's an abuse of a dominant position. The conduct of the chain of trade shows signs of abuse of its status. And when we look at the Czech Republic, none of the largest business chains has a significantly larger market share, and it is therefore not possible to demonstrate a dominant position for one of them and to assess such behaviour under the competition protection law. Likewise, private law has failed in the area in the past. That is why I believe there must be specific legislation. As I have already mentioned, the prepared bill includes the knowledge and experience acquired by the Competition Authority during the period of application. The administrative procedures conducted by the Authority, the sector investigation prior to the administrative procedure, have shown that the behaviour of the chain of trade towards their suppliers is indeed an expression of the strength of the chain of trade, without exception to all their suppliers. Even relatively large suppliers have to accept the conditions that require trade chains, because otherwise the trade chain simply terminates cooperation with them. The typical expression of the strength of the chain of trade is that suppliers have no way of changing the terms and conditions contained in the contracts that they submit to them for signature. I would like to mention a number of problematic behaviours on the chain side, and at the same time I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies about how the Office for the Protection of Competition acted, because I have been repeatedly questioned about how many such proceedings were conducted or led by the UOHS, how it ended, whether his practice is the practice of an active office or a passive office. So let me mention in the next part of my speech where I see the main problems in terms of string behaviour and where the UOHS intervened and with what result. It is quite common that the chain of trade requires a variety of payments from suppliers, without any consideration provided. Typically, Kaufland's demand for payments for opening a thousandth store in Europe. The fee, even in the amount of 100,000, had to be paid by all suppliers, including those in whose country no new Kaufland store was opened. This means that everyone was involved in celebrating this success of Kaufland. As I mentioned here in the past, it is quite usual to rack, which means placing goods in the most advantageous positions from the customer's point of view, so that it is visible. The listing fee is another payment that suppliers must pay for the fact that they can deliver the goods into the chain of commerce at all. Suppliers also pay up to a hundred thousand dollar amounts for the publication of photos of their product in leaflets that regularly publish the chain of trade. Again, I can mention the Kaufland chain. This is currently the subject of an administrative assessment. Another business chain, Bill, demands its suppliers a fee for so-called. Remodeling stores. It is a new internal market and again has to be paid by suppliers even if it is a store where they do not supply their goods. They also posed a big problem, and now I am returning to the application practice, the long due dates of invoices for delivered goods. It should be noted that in the case of food, it is a fast-track commodity. It was common that the trade chains were valid within 45, 60, 90, but also 120 days. However, the truth is that at the time when the competition authority began to deal with these cases, the behaviour of most business chains changed and the time limit laid down by law of 30 days is respected. Here I think this is a positive contribution to the existing legislation. Another unfair conduct of business chains lies in the demands of so-called. back-up bonuses. These are payments that are not pre-negotiated, do not bind to achieving a certain volume of goods sold, but suppliers simply pay them. This is the case of an administrative procedure conducted by the Authority with Tesco, which has not yet been closed, or another case of a specific procedure conducted by the UOHS. Another administrative procedure, which focused on compliance with the 30-day maturity deadline, leads the ÚOHS with Lidl and with Globus. In both cases, the proceedings are ongoing, evidence showing that there is a breach of the law is added. One administrative procedure conducted by the ÚOHS with Kaufland was finally terminated when the Authority declared infringement for non-compliance with the 30-day due date of the invoices. This hearing for the future prohibited and imposed a fine of CZK 22 million of CZK 130,000. This procedure is currently subject to judicial review. In the same way, the ÚOHS conducted proceedings with Ahold, when Ahold recognised its misconduct during the course of the procedure, again the long repayment periods, and submitted the commitments that led to the correction, and the Authority therefore, in accordance with the law, accepted these commitments and terminated the proceedings. With Kaufland, the ÚOHS is currently conducting further administrative proceedings, examining whether there is objectively justified grounds for the requirements of Kaufland for the various payments required by suppliers and whether, if there is a reason, these payments are reasonable. In my view, in general, it is possible to state that, after the law has taken effect, the situation in the supplier-customer relations has been calmed down. However, from further investigations, the IOHS has learned that the business chains are finding new ways to raise funds from its suppliers, without any consideration, without any fulfilment by the business chains. I am convinced that the examples that I have put here, which are absolutely specific, absolutely addressed, are an argument for an effective legislative instrument to continue to exist here in the Czech Republic in the form of this existing law in force. I believe that the amendment of this law will enable more effective enforcement of the obligations laid down in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u47	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Laudát's de facto opinion. [[He refuses.]] No? I have you here electronically logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u48	Thank you. I didn't mean to stall. But Prime Minister, you know, to argue with the 30-day maturity here, that's a long time ago. It is dealt with, as you said, in another law, because secondary insolvency was chained in a number of fields in the economy, so it was accepted. And to argue - it's just been a number of years now - that's not fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u49	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Kovářová, duly applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u50	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me turn the debate in a slightly different direction. Mrs Balaštíková tried to explain to me during the last discussion of this proposal the not included regulation of suppliers in the final government proposal by - I quote - "in fact, it has never been registered from the supplier's field that any breach of significant market power". I would like to make a few comments on this explanation. One. In the original proposal, which went into the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, the regulation of suppliers was also incorporated. I believe that the competition authority, which prepared this proposal with its professional apparatus, knew what it was doing. Two. Even if we were to argue that no supplier currently has a position requiring regulation, we cannot rule out that such a situation will not happen sooner or later. Are we going to adopt another amendment, or is it more reasonable to accept a comprehensive everything involving the modification already? Three. Your claim regarding the absence of abuse of market power by suppliers is based on the statement by the President of the Union of Trade and Tourism that many suppliers have significant market power. Isn't the President telling the truth? That's my first question. [[16.10 hours]] My second question is probably on the verge of something. In spite of the expert opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition, which Minister for the Exemption of Suppliers has advocated and enforced? I thank you for the clarification, whether it comes from my colleague Balaštíková, through Madam President, or - and I would rather - from one of the ministers directly. In conclusion, let me say that rather than adopt this bill in the proposed unfinished form, it would be wiser to abolish it directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u51	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Another duly registered member is Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. - Sorry, Prime Minister's priority right. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u52	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, let me also respond to Mrs Kovářová's speech. First of all, I would like to say that we are not alone in terms of the existence of this regulation, i.e. many European countries have similar adaptations. When we looked at those European countries with similar adjustments, we found that they had similar adjustments in the direction of customers, not suppliers. This means that states that have adopted and applied public regulation of a competitive nature to customer/contractor relationships have always laid down - similarly to us - a condition for their application by the existence of a specific position of one of the subscriber/contractor. This means that the fundamental idea of these legislations is that one party to a contractual relationship, i.e. The customer has a significant market position which he can exploit against all suppliers. There is only one-way regulation in all European countries where the legal regulation of supplier-customer relations has been adopted. Very often retailers are regulated explicitly, and some regulations have that word in their name. There is no relevant strong reason for extending the scope of the law, which has, of course, been discussed as part of the preparation of this bill as well as to suppliers. So far, none of the existing studies that have analysed relations along the food chain has revealed that any, even from large suppliers, would be abused or at all able to exploit its market power towards customers. So again, I refer to application practice, what is happening in our economy, what has been happening in recent years, and what we are responding to by this amendment to the existing law on significant market power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Laudát has now preferred Mr Kučer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After that, with the factual remark of Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u54	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond here more or less to the performance of both the Prime Minister and, of course, to the information on the quality of the prepared report, the explanatory report, as such. For those who have read the explanatory report and have not looked at the RIA report, allow me to recite some of the moments from it. For example, I quote from the RIA report: impacts on business entities - yes. Of course, I understand. Furthermore, the proposed proposal envisages a positive impact on the business environment as a result of the removal of the shortcomings of the existing regulation. Well, obviously it has an impact on one side, I don't know if it has an impact on the other side. Of course, what is not here - it says here: social impacts - no. I wonder how the chain of trade will start to behave at the moment we start to regulate under this law. That means they're gonna start cutting back on selling time. Because, of course, they're also at the edge of some profitability. Let us not think - and we see this from the example of one unnamed chain, which leaves not only the Czech Republic, but almost all over Europe, they are also on the verge of profitability. That means if we bring them in even more today, of course they'll move on. There will be social consequences. RIA's reasoned report tells us no. I think I do. Another moment that I would like to mention here that it will have an impact on the state and other public budgets. No. So the moment companies start firing employees, it will have an impact on the state budget. As the cashier, to whom it will be most likely, unfortunately, is the most likely, they will probably find themselves at the employment office. I would like to mention from the explanatory report other interesting moments that maybe not everyone has read or not everyone knows them. And here's where I'm going to quote. So I quote from the explanatory memorandum drawn up by the petitioner. Major flaws. One of the main shortcomings - I quote - is the inconclusiveness and uncertainties of certain provisions. So I think that's all it would take. However, there goes on: Another lack of clarity is whether some forms of sanctions and inaccuracies regarding the possibility of extra-sanctioning cases can be imposed. - Those are all the things that the novel is trying to solve, and yet it doesn't approach the effective solution at all. The definition of the concept of significant market power gives the possibility of at least a double interpretation of concepts, thereby disrupting the predictability of the administrative authority's conduct, the unclear definition of an entity which may have significant market power and to whom it is assessed. - This novel isn't removing it again. It's not clear in the novel again, because the view is similar to what it says right here in the explanatory memorandum. I mean that the processing is very weak in my opinion, and I am really sorry that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is presenting such a poor amendment to the law. I would therefore like to propose that this amendment be returned to the petitioner for revision. I think the reasons I mentioned here are very serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u55	I thank Mr Kučer. Mrs Kovářová, Mrs František Laudát, followed by Mrs Kovářová. Before that, Mr Urban's factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the Prime Minister. I'm sure the Prime Minister's arguments were interesting, but they still haven't convinced me. In my opinion, when our applicable legal order punishes, for example, the threat to the operation of an underwater cable or pipeline, it is not reasonable to insist that it is unnecessary to regulate the misuse of significant market power by the supplier. Answer yourself, which situation is significantly less likely. I think it is that one of the Czech citizens will cut the underwater cable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. With the factual remark of Mr Urban. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u58	Thank you. I didn't quite understand that, but maybe I have a little bit of a longer cable line. Actually, the top says this is wrong. Return the law, deny it. It does not suggest any other solution, virtually. He says the market would sort it out on its own. Let me give you another example here. We live in the territory of the European Union, we are a Member State of the European Union. Do you think we are not protected in the global economy? We're not protected by quotas, aren't we protected by customs? Shall we open the borders of the European Union to the whole world? Will we consider this the right solution? It might be nice for the Czech industry, but for some other fields? These would probably perish due to imports from some parts of the world into the European Union. I'm sure you'll recognize that the market here doesn't work as clean and as simple as you imagine. [[16.20 hours]] I think the relationship between suppliers and the chain is kind of something like that. I think we will not interfere with the Czech economy's approach to a liberal market environment by punching those who are willing here more than they want in their mother countries. I don't think there's anything about it that's socialist, nothing that's non-markety. I think it's a normal peasant approach to solving the problem. Who denies the problem and says that the market will solve it itself, in my opinion, is out of the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u59	I thank Mr Urban. With another factual remark, Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u60	I confess that I like Mr Urban's colleague, but more or less now I've got my breath blown away. I am - if I understood him correctly, he says: let us proceed selectively to exports and imports. Where it suits us in the industrial goods we produce, let us not take any measures there and ask the European Union to accept it fully on its market, and where we need to protect our domestic market from the bad importers, we will introduce them there. That's how I understood it, and I hope - this is where my colleague Urban is going to take me out of it. But I think if we thought like that, it would be completely wrong. If the market is to be liberal and open, unfortunately and thankfully in all the commodities that the market contains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u61	I thank Mr Kučer. My colleague Urban wants to get him out of this because he's making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u62	I'm sorry to hold you up. But of course I didn't say that. I just said I can't. If we were to open the borders of the European Union and work in North Africa, farmers have nothing to produce here, because cheaper food would be imported from there. On the other hand, as the Czech Republic, we would like to see fewer quotas and different tariffs outside the European Union, so that we can sell our engineering products there, for example. But I said I couldn't. It's just that the global economy is acting somehow. I once led a delegation of the Czech Republic at a World Trade Forum meeting. It was very interesting. Firstly, you will find that we are no longer the belly of the world as the European Union. Secondly, you'll find that the fight for the quotas, the world trade duties, is big. All I'm saying is that there's an example. The European Union could not work without various safeguards, which, of course, are also being used by others against the European Union. It is not so easy to abolish all principles so that it is a pure and clean market. So I wanted to give this as an example, because we also don't have to play it in the relationship between suppliers and business chains. Just by hitting them over the fingers, we do not disturb the market and the market environment in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u63	I thank Mr Urban for his point of view. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u64	I have a promise from the Prime Minister that he will answer my questions, but that's probably in the final word. I would like to respond to the Prime Minister's speech during the last debate on 22 May and with some of his remarks to argue or to ask. The Prime Minister, to quote him, says: Very often here he mentions the fact that this model is something special. It's not like that. Many other EU Member States have a similar form of regulation in their legal order, such as Austria, Latvia, Finland, Hungary, Great Britain, Lithuania, Germany, France, Italy, Portugal, Spain. I don't quote it exactly and word for word. And I agree with that. However, we must say what legislation is in which countries. I've only prepared a few examples so we know what we're comparing. In my opinion, the only one where there is comparable and similar legislation is Slovakia and Hungary. And I know from our political colleagues in Slovakia that even there, either the amendment and mitigation are being considered, or the complete abolition, that the application did not bring the effects that the Slovak Government and the Slovak Parliament brought. For example, in Germany - and this is the question of the title of the law - the law concerns all sectors. Everyone's really, and not sectorally like us. So we can't say it's similar to the German amendment. That would be at the moment if it weren't for the sale of agricultural products and it was just a law on significant market power. When we take the Italian adjustment, the principle of addiction is applied there, which means that it really protects the small suppliers. And I want to say what sanctions there are, for example, in Italy - between 500 and 20 thousand. EUR. So each of us, if I said 30 CZK and not 27.30 of the current course, it's 600 thousand. Kč. Here we say that whoever has 5 billion, one percent of the net turnover, so I'm not going to count those who have 10, 15, 20 billion, but out of that 5 billion it's 50 million one percent. Incomparable again with what's in Italy. Yes, there is another problem in Britain. There, the four largest chains control 85 percent of the market. And here, at least based on the information I have at my disposal, the ten largest chains don't control a third of the market, or 40, 45 percent, and the biggest ones don't have a third of the market. And the Prime Minister admitted it, too, or admitted it, the Prime Minister mentioned it when he spoke of abuse of a dominant position. It simply cannot be applied in the Czech Republic because no one has such a large market share, unlike Great Britain, where it is the 86 percent or 85 of the largest. So the OOHS did this. He's taken the European laws, he's chosen the strictest of them all, he's stuffed it into one law, and he says, "This is a standard European law." So if I translate it, what we all know, you'll want to start a political party, you'll take the European political parties' programs from the extreme left to the left, the right, the extreme right, you'll put something in each of them, and then you'll say: this political party has a standard political European programme, because you'll find it in programs in standard European countries, especially the 15-year-olds. So that is the exact approach of our UOHS, which I must say, the government mostly believes is very well managed. I must confirm the words of Mrs Balaštíková that RIA is there. So I will try to quote what the ÚOHS tells us about the effects of this law: "As imaginable costs for consumers, an increase in food prices is seen as a result of projecting the costs of other entities on the basis of the application of this law. " When we translate it from the bureaucratic ptydepe, because it's hard to understand, he says: we assume that food prices for customers will increase, even though they call it imaginary costs appear to increase food prices as a result of the projection. Similarly, in the same RIA, the ÚOHS states: "Comparation of contractual relations can bring a certain contractual cost to a party with significant market power and, for example, may result in a subsequent restriction of the product range. " This will once again affect those consumers whose interest we are allegedly discussing this bill. The Prime Minister, I will quote another comment, said it on 22 May: Suppliers do not have any defence options against this meeting. I must remind you that, at European level, this fact is repeatedly highlighted. While the chain usually has a choice of several suppliers of similar goods, for a number of food producers and distributors, the contract with the trader is often an existential issue and obtaining similar sales options is at least very difficult in hard competition. And let's think about the state of things in numbers. Even in comparison with other members of the European Union, when we want to keep comparing and telling what Brussels or other states are telling us, there is a low concentration on the side of trade. As I mentioned, the ten largest chains control 46 percent of the market, and the three largest do not have a total of 30, but we have the goods in which the supplier has one single supplier, 30 or 40 percent of the market. [[16.30 hours]] And we're saying that whoever's under 30 is taking advantage of it, and whoever has 30 or 40 alone doesn't have to deal with it because he never abuses anything. And if you have two or three suppliers, one refuses to deliver to a particular chain, then it already has a choice of the string of two at most. But the government doesn't want to deal with this. I got some paper, but it obviously has nothing to do with it. I'll quote the Prime Minister: We assume significant market power for competitors whose annual turnover exceeds 5 billion. CZK, if - and this is important - this assumption is not refuted by circumstances related to the market structure, barriers to entry, the market share of suppliers and customers, their financial strength, the size of the business network of customers or the size and location of their individual stores. I feel the need to emphasise this because it is not really a question of turnover, but these factors, too, must be assessed. I do not suspect the Prime Minister that he himself formulated this sentence, for me it is completely incomprehensible what the circumstances associated with the structure of the market are, but what is important is the law, virtually. The bill doesn't talk about anything like that. There it is strictly written, who has a turnover above 5 billion, has market power. There's no judgment. That's what you've been talking about, and it's like you're softening it up, that other circumstances are going to be judged, and there's no such thing in the law. How can they be judged? The application of the law, if it was in this text, is quite clear. Whoever has over 5 billion, has significant market power and no matter what the circumstances with the structure of the market, what the cost of entering the market and all the other things were. My question is, what did you mean when you say it wouldn't just be a turnaround? When the bill says just a turnaround. If you're gonna propose some kind of amendment or something. I must say that I would sign what the chairman of the Economic Committee said in his speeches. I've already asked two basic questions in the first debate. How can you be sure that prices will not rise when the RIA ÚOHS says that there can be an increase in prices? And you are saying that this is supposed to help Czech companies, Czech producers, but in my opinion, and I agree with Mr Pilný, there will be nothing easier for this trader than to take goods from someone who is not covered by the law. So how do you want to minimize the risk that instead of helping them enter the chains, you're really going to make their conditions worse than their competitors? We talk very often about national food. And I'd like to talk about local food. I live in a town where we have a border crossing. So if someone brings Polish apples to the farmer's market in Lower Square, they drive two kilometers and they can ride a bike. But in Mrs Balaštíková's dictum, we will not buy them because it is not a Czech producer. But it's local food. I'm sure you do. We're talking about regular salesmen. I think the idea that the law will help those small ones with small productions, that they will supply to large chains... How much volume will they supply there? If their customers like it, will they be able to do it? I think that self-government is going the right way and very often support farmers' markets, rent them free of charge or at a symbolic price of sales space, and that is the way to support without large subsidies, without organising it at national level, but at local level. Each of our regions has a different local food, lives in different conditions, etc. That's a perfectly normal thing to do. I don't know if anyone's done this before. If not, I formally propose rejecting this law at first reading, because so far no one has denied me how the government wants to avert the two risks. Firstly, food will be more expensive for our citizens, and secondly, it will be imported more than it will be purchased from Czech companies, Czech farmers and Czech producers. Perhaps we could, and it is also an opportunity for the Prime Minister here to explain to us why the application of the existing law is going as hard as I have already said. You nominated the chairman of the UOHS, I know it wasn't unanimous, so I say majority, for another term. Because if I have good information, in six or seven years when the law applies, two administrative proceedings have been terminated. And if we have any idea that we're going to speed things up or simplify with this 444 print, then no. But maybe six years from now, when the Social Democrats choose their candidate for the head of the UOHS, they'll come up with another draft law on significant market power and say: application practice has shown us that it doesn't work completely, let's change the law, and we have an excellent candidate for that, which the UOHS could continue to lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u65	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u66	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to my previous speaker, Mr Stanjura, and I will also use the presence of Vice Prime Minister Babiš here, and I will draw attention to a situation that I have already pointed out once, because we are discussing this for the third time, that suppliers also have significant market power. I am here, I believe, already mentioned the situation that occurred in 2012 when the iDNES, which was not yet owned by the Finance Minister and the owner of the group Agrofert Andrej Babiš, published the following. Quote: Billionaire Andrej Babiš, who owns the empire Agrofert, has taken a hard turn on the chain of commerce. We're here again. Their behavior to suppliers was likened to terrorism. Babiš responded to the recent decision of the Albert network, which stopped collecting pastries from the largest domestic bakeries United Bakeries and Penam. The effect of strings is indeed on the level of terrorism. I'm sure you've been following us from one day to the next in Ahold. We stopped supplying 246 Aholda stores because we didn't agree on the price, even though the price of the grain went up. 30 other bakeries replaced us. Albert's business chain justified the change of supplier of fresh bread by increasing popularity of regional bakery suppliers. "Our customers have their favorite local bakers and we also want to offer their products in our stores," said Ahold network manager. - This is a quote from the iDNES diary, where Mr Martin Komárek may have been working then, I believe, at that time. I just want to say that we really have a situation here where the market power, the significant market power, the suppliers also have, and I think that they should also not abuse it, as we have seen in the case of Minister Babiš. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u67	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Laudát is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. I intend to address the law specifically on the wording that is here, with the fact that I would like to put forward a number of facts. I have already dealt with this issue in the past period, and together with Mr. Exmissor Plachý, we have tabled a motion to repeal this law because of its ambiguousness, infunction, and we believe that it is also harmful. For some reason, at the time, I don't know if the only thing that was really rational has already been said here, it was a question of paying off invoices, but she wasn't just concerned with this segment, even though this segment in the food industry has been pointed out the most, but today it is dealt with by the trade code. What the Prime Minister is arguing here is that the environment has changed legislatively, something like the Civil Code has been adopted, and oddly enough it would be interesting, and it is missing in the material, to assess whether the Civil Code would happen today, because it has a weaker protection there, so I think that the example does not take into account that it has changed significantly and the legal environment of the Czech Republic has been modified. Of course, when we approach it in the style of Thailand they have that good law, in Germany there, much like Croatia today in other legislative matters, also the Japonec have their legislation, and this is how we collect everything around the world, so the fact that you put 50 positive things on a pile doesn't mean that the mixture will be positive. [[16.40 hours]] Many of you who are here in the first parliamentary term have promised voters a major simplification of legislation. You promised you couldn't live in that legal jungle and you had to break the necessary laws. I totally agree with you. I've made one failed attempt in the past period. This morning you also had a unique chance to abolish one law and complete the work code and someone could breathe out. But it's probably not the target. The aim is simply the legal jungle to develop the quintal sector in order to increase legal uncertainty. I am sorry that, instead of having a long discussion here about a harmful and unnecessary law, there is no more urgent matter to be dealt with, and this is still a question of growing the mob and mafia practices, which are covered by a round stamp. I am specifically referring to the execution, the bullying of companies that lead to the fact that Czech companies are re-registered abroad, and that is, I would say, in five minutes twelve. They'll re-registration at 12:00 if the trend continues, even with regard to tax payments. Now to your own law. Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products, came into force on 1. 2. 2010. I remember the discussions that were here, and I think it was adopted in an era of a complete distribution of the political spectrum before the elections at the time of the administrative government. I know that the social democrats were a major protagonist of this law, which I would not blame them for, because they really do regulation, regulation, taxation, that's exactly their policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u69	Mr colleague, I apologize when you talk about regulation, I also allow myself to regulate the House and ask you to stop talking to your colleagues and listen to Mr Laudát. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u70	Thank you for the peace of mind. I'm already on the verge of someone listening, resigning. At the time we presented an attempt to abolish this law... [[A noisy conversation between the Social Democrats, including President Sobotka.]] I'd like to ask Mr. Chvojka me now -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u71	I'm sorry. I once again lead you to serenity, especially the prominent representatives of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u72	Then it's unfocused, and it turns out like yesterday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u73	So please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u74	In this discussion, it was said from all sides that the existing legislation was ineffective, wrong and that it was either to be abolished or significantly redesigned. The arguments have always been the 30-day maturity. What was a fundamental point - I do not have the courage of Mr. Prime Minister to have such a fundamental law or amendment written by Mr. Rafaj's office, so I collected the evidence. I've got some really blessed ones somewhere. I do not use them today, because the situation is changing and the surveys and various expert analyses and legal analyses do not have to apply, and I assume that sooner or later you will vote at least the first reading of the law and it will come to discussion. Then I'm gonna take the materials out, and I'm gonna try to compare it to today's situation. However, what I remember was so crucial that the law, as it was pushed through the House in 2009, created a huge legal uncertainty. Even practical. I remember that it was only that the turnover was not even defined, when the significant market power was to be taken into account whether it was related to the global chains of Czech turnover or turnover within the entire company. Then it's a question of how to prove to them, when some of these interpretations say it was the whole world, how to calculate it, where to get relevant data, what to do with the complex, often possibly tentacle structures of these companies to count or not. The UOHS has tried to put here several times as an adhesive to the amendment of the law, and it has just come from the fact that his findings in more detail were being examined, whether they were judicial reviews or others, so they fell under the table, so it was a bit of a backstage shame. I even remember once there was such an attempt that a Member in the so-called Lower House forgot the proposition. So he picked him up, he didn't know anything, the other one, and he was stuck here like a completely different law, I think it was a law on public procurement or something, I don't remember exactly, trying to push him through like a sticker without knowing exactly what it was about. We had to deal with this at the time. I even made the rapporteur of this completely different law, and I know that we rejected it, even then even across the spectrum because of the risk to the original other law of non-constitution of the process, because it was a standardly clear sticker. And, of course, the fact that even if we did pass this up, the quality of the experiment was very bad. There were a number of inaccuracies, unpredictableness, uncertainty, confusion, excessive case reports, and so on. Assessment of the economic effects that were part of the explanatory reports of the previous proposals to amend the law on significant market power, so in today's material it is no longer at all to be sure. And I've seen some pretty major protests from the travel agency union in the media, or whatever the company's name is. I'm picking up a statement from Mr. Vice Prime Minister. The more I am surprised that it is presented here as a government proposal. From the very beginning, when it was here, and today it has been said many times, the fundamental problem is that I also see a very disadvantageous position and a risk position even bigger among first-timers and consumers of food manufacturers or some products. So I'm asking why only that party is regulated, and not that party is a supplier. But I believe that what President Stanjura said here, monopolies and emerging and natural monopolies are meant to be regulated, but to be regulated for the entire middle standard instruments, not by special laws. I share with the professional association the concern that regulation will lead to many major negative consequences for the Czech economy and our employment economy in the longer term. I don't really know if the UOHS is the right person to say whether it will have an impact on employment or not. [[16.50 hours]] I note the warning that the regulation will sooner or later result in a substantial weakening of the competitiveness of food produced in the Czech Republic. Here I would repeat again what was said here from the mouth of my colleague Balaštíková, that if we approve the amendment presented today, we will actually help suppliers from foreign countries. In this I deeply agree with her that we will help them. Because if the chains were taking it from Czech producers now, if they are in legal uncertainty, doubts or disadvantageous conditions, they will actually take it from suppliers from foreign countries. And I think the basis of every company's business success is that someone buys your goods from you. [[There is constant noise and restlessness in the Chamber.]] As a result of a reduction in competitiveness, the share of food from producers from the Czech Republic will be reduced on the domestic market. Now, but again, I've heard that number from the media, from professionals, it's 70 to 80 percent on individual strings. And to reduce exports. It would probably be worth it if the law maker or the Minister of Agriculture here said how many billions of Czech producers' products, including the largest ones, actually take chains and sell them beyond our borders. This means that Czech producers supply not only the Czech market but also foreign. Because then we could also get what we're gonna do with the amendment or by tightening up the law. If it isn't just about damage to exports of Czech food abroad. Because I don't know how he's gonna handle the law. This concerns the supplier-customer relationship and not what the seller does with it. Maintaining and, if necessary, tightening regulation, and thus the situation of factual and legal uncertainty will certainly lead to measures to protect existing and future investments made by traders in the Czech Republic. These consequences will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the level of the tax obligation. That's what I've been alerted to. The Czech Republic is staggering in a number of arbitrations, and it is always the subject of a great policy. I just think that if there isn't somewhere, and we are in conflict with the promoter, the fatal problem is that I would rather not change the legal environment, given that we have signed maybe hundreds of international binding treaties and any change in the legal environment can trigger any arbitration, in which case better, the departure of some entrepreneurs from the Czech Republic. And since home-grown businessmen are running away, I think our environment is going to be very poor, too, when strangers start running away. What I find irresponsible in the bill is draconian taxes or huge sanctions that can happen... I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u75	I'm sorry, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Ambassador, I beg you to raise your volume. The other colleagues, I ask for peace of mind...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u76	I want to say something poisonous, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u77	No, please don't say it! Speak to the point, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u78	I won't say it. [[He's laughing.]] I won't say it. So that's really what I'd be afraid of. [[First of all, ČSSD Members are talking to each other.]] Again, I do not think that the Office for the Protection of Competition should interfere with such a sensitive issue. The amendment does not bring even the declared higher legal certainty. The definition of significant market power is completely vague and vague. The definition of prohibited acts is just exemplary, and it is therefore not clear what billions of sanctions can be threatened for. I admit I have a college degree, I've had a public-sector practice, a community policy practice, but often when I'm forced to reach for some laws, I... [[A silence.]] I'm sorry, but... If I don't care about something like you're probably not interested in interfering with the market economy, then please, really, really, really, really good in the hallway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u79	I will interrupt you, colleague, and again, I will ask and begin to appoint specific individuals, or I will interrupt the House's meeting until it is quiet. [[Laughter and applause.]] I see that this has met with a positive response, yet I beg you to remain calm and to hear from Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u80	Thank you. After all, the 17th hour is coming up, and I am not responsible for the shrinking of comments caused by the performance of my colleague Balaštíková. So today I'd like to at least come to the conclusion that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u81	Please grow up, Mr. Ambassador. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u82	That I would finish the general page and then I have comments on the individual sections. And, of course, if the coalition votes for second reading, then when this disaster is about to happen, at least I would have tried, but that would have been within the second reading, which I would have saved the House time to read some amendments, so that at least the amendment would have a little head and heel and not so much risk. So I'm gonna try to speed things up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u83	Although the Member will try to finish this somehow, I beg the House to remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u84	You know, I admit that I don't know if it's funny to you, to me such laws that people who can't handle their own office, and there are a lot of problems, and they're making laws that interfere with market relationships that they obviously don't know so much about, if you think it's funny from the left side of social democracy, it doesn't make me laugh. You may want to regulate everything, then you don't know the consequences. And if you don't, I would recommend that social democracy, quite have the signals that you may have a positive economic situation, so come to your model of politics and its consequences to look at France. And if you really want to work it out so that instead of our citizens having a good time and finally getting the prosperity, they'll be happy if the middle class has the luxury of owning a studio apartment. And that's the beginning of luxury. If that's how you want to work it out, then I understand you're shooting these bills and acting the way you're acting. I didn't even allow myself to enter such things when I proposed to abolish this law, and I took about six months to get the facts, the analyses, I discussed it with experts, I discussed it with people from the industry. [[17,00 hours]] This is not what you do and whether there will be employment or unemployment, something will be said by a Brno official, although a high civil servant, whom I otherwise appreciate, and then there will be almost xenophobic views of the Čech Čech, it was just missing, don't be mad at me. But if you think it's funny, I don't think it's funny. So unfortunately, the 17th hour has passed, I may not be allowed to be here anymore, but again I would urge you to take this issue seriously. I'm not making fun of it, and I think it's one of the important things that should be of great priority, but not in the form that you put here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-014-022.u85	I thank Mr Laudát. The Minister of Agriculture will not get his factual remark, because it is the 17th hour at which we have a firmly different point. I am therefore interrupting the discussion of the Government's bill on significant market power, first reading. Now we're going to look at point number
