ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen - I do not see a member of the Government here yet - I welcome you to today's meeting on the 27th session of the Chamber of Deputies and I am opening it. The Minister of Agriculture is here, so we have the first member of the government. Please sign up with ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card, with Václav Klučka's replacement card number one and the next we'll see. I would now state my apologies for not attending today's meeting, which these Members asked for: first, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček, colleague Bartošek, from 13 to 16 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Beznoska for personal reasons, Mr Birke is on a foreign journey. Mr Vojtěch Adam has a replacement card number 13. Within 11 hours, Ivan Gabal apologizes for reasons of work, from 16 to 19 hours Jan Zahradník for Vondrášek of work, Vlastimil Vozka until 14.30 for Lukáš of work, Vice-President Gazdík for reasons of work, Mr Leoš Heger to 11.30 for Soukup of work, Mr Pavel Holík to 13 hours for Vladislav of work, as well as for the whole day Mr Václav Horáček apologizes for Jiří reasons, Mr Simeon Karamazov, until 10 hours Mr David Kasal for Strnadlová of work, for health Váňa of health, Mr David Kádner for the whole day, for afternoon meetings Mr Josef Kott for Helena of work, also for Válková of work, Mr Stanislav Mackovík, also for reasons of work until 11.30 Mr Igor Nekl, for Procházka of health Vilímec of health, Mr Miroslav Opálka for reasons of health Zemánek of health, Mr. For reasons of work, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka apologizes to the members of the government for working reasons Pavel Bělobrádek, Richard Brabec for the whole day for working reasons, Jiří Dienstbier for working reasons also for the whole day, from 14.30 for working reasons Minister Marcel Chládek, also for foreign travel Michaela Marksová, Jan Mládek, Minister Svatopluk Němeček, Robert Pelikán, Minister Martin Stropnický, until 11.30 for work reasons Dan Ťok and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for foreign travel reasons. My colleague, Šenfeld, has a replacement card number 10. In addition to these apologies which were delivered until last night, an apology was delivered to the Secretariat of the President of the House this morning at the morning meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr Koskuba, for personal reasons today, apologizes for the whole day, colleague Jaroslav Holík from 9am to 10pm. Those are the apologies we have delivered at the moment. We can start our negotiations.
