ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u1	33. Proposal by Members of Helena Langšádlová, Zdeněk Soukup, Roman Procházka, Josef Novotný, Jitka Chalánková, František Vácha, Václav Horáček, Herbert Pavera, Rom Kostřice, Jiří Koubek and Daniel Korte to issue a law amending Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended /house print 157/ - first reading I'm saying we're in the first reading. Thank you for seeing Mrs Helena Langšádlová and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Stanislav Berkovec. Let me state how this item was interrupted, and this was on the proposal of Mr Sklenák, who made a procedural proposal to interrupt the discussion of this item until the end of the discussion of paragraph 112. This proposal has been passed and the proposal has been accepted. The point has therefore not been launched, and we must therefore start this point in a normal manner now - through the speeches of the appellants and that is Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to mention the amendment to the Advertising Regulation Act which I have tabled with my colleagues. The amendment reflects the need to create a legislative regulation on legal issues, namely the extension of advertising especially in establishments and in publicly accessible places only in a foreign language. The authors of the amendment to the Advertising Regulation do not in any way intend to prevent the dissemination of advertising in a foreign language, but only to lay down legal conditions for the dissemination of foreign-language advertising. The current legislative state does not allow this negative situation to be dealt with by issuing a generally binding municipal decree within a separate scope or by the municipality's delegated regulation. This means that it does not allow the use of legislative instruments at local level. For this reason, a proposal for an amendment to the Advertising Regulation Act, which newly addresses the authorisation to issue a generally binding municipality regulation, is a regulation whereby the municipality could regulate the issue of the dissemination of foreign-language advertising on its territory in premises and in publicly accessible places individually according to local conditions. According to the statement of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the problem of spreading advertising only occurs in a foreign language in a number of cities and municipalities, especially in border areas. In addition to the Association of Towns and Communities, representatives of the capital city of Prague, Karlovy Vary, Hradec Králové, Přerov, Havířov, Děčín, Jihlava and Mariánské Lázně joined in support of the amendment to the Act on Advertising Regulation. [[Noise in the hall.]] A typical example is Karlovy Vary, where a number of foreign entrepreneurs are doing business and the city's magistrate has no legal option of ordering them to present the same text in the Czech language when spreading advertising in a foreign language at the same time. In Karlovy Vary, a large number of foreign-language inscriptions, texts and posters located on the territory of the city in the premises and in public places are generally seen as highly discriminatory and is subject to constant, repeated -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u3	Madame, I will interrupt you and try to have the House present you with sufficient attention. Thank you, your colleagues, for keeping their voice down. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u4	- sharp criticism not only from the citizens of the city, but also from visitors and spa guests. The elimination of discrimination against Czech citizens cannot be achieved by means other than the legal way. Since this problem does not concern all municipalities of the Czech Republic, but only some, the above-mentioned situation would be addressed by the amendment to the Advertising Regulation Act, which allows the municipality to regulate the distribution of advertising in a foreign language according to local conditions. The municipality could decide whether to use the option of issuing a regulation to regulate the dissemination of advertising in a foreign language or not, or to what extent. The proposed legislation does not in any way prohibit or restrict commercial advertising. It is also not a restriction of freedom of expression or freedom of business by banning the dissemination of advertising in a foreign language, but only to determine the legal conditions for its dissemination at the same time as the Czech text. On the contrary, the same Czech text will be introduced in foreign-language advertising, and the number of customers can be extended to Czech citizens. I would like to say that the Government's position on the amendment is disagreeable. The petitioners have come to know this position in detail and allow themselves to say the following. Point 1 of the Government's Opinion. The Government's reminder concerning restrictions on the free movement of goods must be rejected as not possible. The free movement of goods within the European Union is without prejudice to the proposal. According to the Government's opinion, the scope of the directive cannot be excluded and the proposal should therefore be notified by the European Commission. However, the reference directive deals with issues not entirely related to advertising because it addresses the technical specifications and characteristics of products, such as quality, safety, characteristics or labelling of products. The proposal and the directive, with its effect, completely misses the proposal for legislation. In paragraph 2, the Government's comment, first of all, states in fact that the proposal does not address the existing interpretation problems of the Advertising Regulation. Yes, it doesn't. And he doesn't even have the ambition to deal with them. If the Government is of the opinion that these are serious interpretational problems which the administrative authorities or courts cannot handle, it is the primary duty of the Government to resolve the problem and not to blame the parliamentary proposal on a completely different question that it does not address the historical interpretational uncertainties of the law. Note about the name of meals and shops is, in our opinion, a lack of understanding of the design. The proposal does not imply that foreign food names or business names have to be honoured. To point three. We are of the opinion that the proposal does not create legal uncertainty between entrepreneurs nor does it allow negotiations which would be contrary to the competition law. We do not consider the comments in point 3 of the Government's position to be justified. We have included other objections with the petitioners in the upcoming amendment that we are prepared to make in the legislative process. Thank you for your attention and please release for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u5	I thank the appellants' representative, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Stanislav Berkovec. Before you start talking - I have an ambition to end this point at 18.55 hours, because according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, we have another meeting at 19 o'clock and we need five minutes for technical computer renumbering. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant evening. Allow me just a few words from the rapporteur of this House press 157 - by the way, we are already celebrating the anniversary, it has been delivered to the House on 2 April 2014 - and also to someone who has been involved in special operations, advertising and media for the past 25 years. Here it is necessary to realize what kind of advertising is here in terms of both formal and content. From the point of view of content, we talk about the category of foreign-language advertising without giving adequate text in the Czech language. From a formal point of view, this is short-term advertising, i.e. small mercantil, printed and press promotions and outdoor advertising. This is a serious social phenomenon, and I am convinced that the group of petitioners is about eliminating discrimination against our citizens in the Czech Republic. So I strongly hope that you will support this proposal for the second reading and the commandment to the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I have now signed up for Mr Karamazov's debate, Mr Zdeněk Soukup will be prepared and I see more registered ones. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, we are faced with a bill which is essential to enable municipalities to regulate the distribution of advertising in a language other than the Czech language. If I look at the situation from a citizen's point of view, all I have to do is agree with the proposal. Especially in some areas advertising is only in a foreign language quite common, often even annoying. I therefore understand citizens who can feel discriminated against by looking at foreign-language leaflets, posters, or menus. From this point of view, therefore, I welcome the bill. On the other hand, I think that the problem is not only in foreign-language advertising, it is merely a consequence. If we look to other countries, especially in large cities, we can see whole neighborhoods composed only of members of a different nationality. And, of course, with advertising only in their language. Typically in Chinatowns. And does anyone in there forbid such advertising? I don't think so. Perhaps we are somewhat more xenophobic and less friendly to foreign influences than is the case with other countries. But the bill will still have my support. However, I would recommend to municipalities that they always weigh carefully whether or not they issue regulations. If a national or other minority in a particular territory acts in accordance with our laws and advertising does not go beyond the captivating limits, I do not think it is necessary for municipalities to limit it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u9	I thank Mr Simeon Karamaz. Mr Zdeněk Soukup will now take the floor, Mr Novotný will be prepared, and then Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, Mr. Soukup. A colleague of the Soukup won't talk? He's coming, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that I, I stress, like to sign, has been rejected by the government. It's a bit of a surprise for me. That in the Czech Republic they will offer products or services next to Russian, English or German also Czech, I take it for granted. At least somewhere downstairs, maybe even a small type of font, for those previously born, who didn't need foreign languages for most of their lives, or just the principle of knowing that I'm home where I am. I would like to add one crucial information to the Government's rejection argument. The amendment proposal was prepared for discussion in the previous parliamentary term. It didn't make it. The authors of the proposal then submitted a text to assess the legal department of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The department proposed modifications in spring 2013 which the authors fully incorporated into the final version of the proposal. He also passed the assessment of the legislative department of the House. Neither of the final trade unions found that this could be discrimination against the operators of restaurants, shops and services or non-compliance with European legislation, as the author of the current government opinion claims. The draft amendment we have on the table is intended not to give priority, but to merely equalise the Czech language, i.e. to prevent discrimination against the Czech customer. The aim of the amendment is not to adopt the principles applicable to the entire territory of the Czech Republic, it is intended to define the conditions for cities and municipalities which will want to apply the equalisation of the Czech language. Just at the edge - they supported the amendment, as the promoter, Union of Towns and Municipalities and representatives of the capital city of Prague, Karlovy Vary, Hradec Králové, Přerova, Havířova, Děčín, Jihlava and Mariánské Lázně said. The amendment only wants to regulate advertising and commercial messages of a short-term nature. So basically, it's just a supply of goods and services. The regulation will not concern the names of business companies, i.e. Butterfly, Coca-cola or British pub on Kampa, will not change the signposts or names on the facades. The amendment is also not supposed to honor, for example, foreign food names. So the hamburger stays a hamburger, and it won't be necessary to introduce it as a meatball, and the steak stays a steak. On the contrary, the amendment assumes that the customer in the restaurant will also receive a menu in Czech. It's not that usual even here on Nerud Street. The amendment also does not include the introduction of Czech into the offer of goods and services immediately. Where the municipality wants to apply it, it gives entrepreneurs a 12-month transitional period. I would continue to argue against the amendment with a rebuttal of possible and sophisticated arguments. If necessary, I will respond in factual notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u11	I thank Mr Zdeněk Soukupa and Mr Josef Novotný will now speak in the debate, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, dear government, because I would like to have a vote. As former governor of the Karlovy Vary Region, one of the proponents of this law, I very much intercede for his release for second reading, because a number of citizens in our region are waiting for this law. I believe that the municipalities of the cities are so capable that they issue a decree that they can then issue, so that, of course, they do not harm anyone. So I intercede for this bill to be released for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u13	I thank Mr Josef Novotný and now Mr Petr Bendl in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be brief, too, because I think The Chamber of Deputies should deal with far more important matters than this bill. I do not feel discriminated against in the Czech Republic by language. We have one single official language, and each office is obliged to communicate with me in this language. If, as a private person, I choose to invest in advertising and decide whether I will do it in Punjabi, Chinese, German or anything else, it is my right, I think, at least until now, and I hope that this will be the case after this bill has been discussed. I don't think it would be right for us to give this kind of excess competence to municipalities. I am fundamentally against this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u15	Thank you. I still have a question, Mr. Ambassador, if you have a procedural proposal. No, you don't. Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The appellants' representatives are not interested; the rapporteur is not interested. I will therefore say that there has been no procedural proposal in the debate on which we should vote, that is to say, a return or rejection, and therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, we will be dealing with proposals on the commandments of committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Election Committee. In the context of the amendment of the Act on Rules of Procedure with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I therefore propose that we order the bill to be discussed by the Election Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Yes, I see a suggestion. Member Zbyněk Stanjura. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u16	I am a member of the electoral committee, which is why I propose that the guarantee committee be an economic committee, because advertising is primarily related to business and not to the media. Don't be mad at me. It's not advertising in public media. The chairman of the Economic Committee does not want to, but this is exactly what they do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-011-033.u17	Thank you. That's counterproposal. No one else is checking in. We will therefore vote on the counter-proposal as a proposal that we will vote on earlier. I think the number of people present is the same as the number applied for. I will therefore begin the vote by order number 124, in which I ask who is in favour of being the Committee on Economic Affairs. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 124 of 144 for 92, against 17. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. We will therefore now vote on the proposal from the Organising Committee to discuss it with the Election Committee. I can't skip this proposal, but it won't be a guarantee committee. We will decide in the vote. Please, I'm still asking if there's any other proposal than the election committee. It's not like that. We will decide in the vote order number 125. Please change on the screen. [[The results of the previous vote were still displayed.]] Your colleague Kalousek reporting? No. [[Messenger. - No, I'm against it. - Fun.]] Okay. I have begun the vote on order number 125, and I ask who is in favour of the election committee discussing this. Who's against it? And I ask the House for peace! Of course, anyone who wishes to speak has the opportunity to join the debate. Thank you. In the vote order number 125 from the present 145 for 65, against 28. The motion was not accepted. I note that this proposal will be discussed as an economic guarantee committee. The time limit for the hearing shall be maintained in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. I thank the appellants' representative, thank the rapporteur, and end with paragraph 33. As I have pointed out, we will have to interrupt this meeting within 19 hours, because the next item is paragraph 34, which is, of course, a draft constitutional law, and I do not consider it dignified for us to start a constitutional law for two or three minutes. So I'm declaring a break until 7:00 p.m. when we start a meeting on the situation in Vrbětice based on the answers of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. I'm interrupting the meeting in 19 o'clock.
