ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended /house printing 386/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow up the process of discussing the draft law, which aims to strengthen national supervision and public control over the financial flows of public health insurance and the functioning of health insurance companies. Changes to help increase the transparency of the entire public health insurance system have already been presented here at first reading. I shall briefly state that they concern, in particular, the issue of the publication of contracts for the provision and reimbursement of paid services, the provision of information to health insurance companies to the ministries concerned or the regulation of obstacles to the performance of the duties of director and members of health insurance bodies. [[17.20 hours]] In the context of the effective use of the resources of the public health insurance system, the proposal contains provisions concerning, for example, the prohibition on the recruitment of insured persons by health insurance companies through third parties or the abolition of a loss-making and unnecessary Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u3	I am very sorry, Minister, but since some Members cannot hear what will be published about them in the near future... [[for noise in the hall]] [[The President is waiting.]] Thank you, they'll know by now. Please continue, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u4	The Committee on Health has dealt very closely with the amendment. A number of amendments have been adopted focusing on different aspects of the proposal. Although much of these proposals can be agreed with, I cannot forget that the Health Committee has also identified proposals that the Ministry of Health cannot support. This concerns, for example, the adoption of an amendment which releases amendments from the proposed amendment containing a reduction in the compulsory allocation to reserve funds. By adopting this amendment, the reserves of health insurance companies will continue to be bound by funds that could be used under the basic funds for the treatment of sick insured persons. Nor can I consider a similar adjustment to the conflict of interest of the general health insurance undertaking's compliance with the proposal to remain in the proposal as a systemically correct solution. It is clear that the submitted Government proposal will raise a debate on some of the amendments here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I am ready to take part in it. Mr President, Madam, Members. I believe that we will be able to increase the efficiency and transparency of the public health insurance system by this amendment, and therefore I am addressing you with a request for support from the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u5	I thank the Minister. On 11 February 2015, at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, this press was ordered to discuss the Committee on Health, only the Committee on Health as a single committee, and it is therefore clear that this committee is a committee of guarantee. We will therefore not vote on the designation of the Guarantee Committee. The resolution of the Health Committee has been delivered to you as House prints 386/1 to 386/4. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me return to the press 386 as discussed on the Health Committee, which discussed it thoroughly, as has been said, about four times in total. Finally, this Committee on Health adopted Resolution 78 of the 19th meeting on 15 April 2015 where it recommends that, as amended by the amendments adopted, the Chamber of Deputies agree to the Government's proposal and, on the one hand, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to make the Committee's position known to the Chamber of Deputies meeting. I would briefly give you the key points from the resolution. The Minister has already mentioned the main issue. It is a so-called transparent amendment that should show transparency in the flow of finance and other measures. In fact, 30 amendments were adopted out of a total of about 40 proposed. I would only mention some of them, and of course I'm prepared to discuss any of them more closely with you. I'm sure you have a resolution ahead of you. For example, as far as the conflict of interest mentioned here concerns the administrative and supervisory councils of insurance companies, namely VZP, where the Ministry proposed a certain extent of when and when it is not possible to be a member of such an administrative body, we adopted an amendment which repeals this proposal. But basically, there's this conflict of interest that was in the current version of the law, so there's no vacuum. I would also like to mention - for example, it is quite beneficial for insured people that we change the possibility of transferring from one insurance company to another. At present, it was possible to change it once every 12 months, always on the first day of that year. We also recommended that it be possible to change the insurance company once every 12 months, but at least two dates, always on the first day of the calendar half-year, twice a year. Furthermore, there are proposals concerning the system of publication of contracts, the period of validity and the period of validity. There are also points concerning the important system of classification of acute bed care and the reference network of providers, which is the so-called DRG system, which is currently not firmly enshrined in the law and which is given into the competence of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, the so-called UHIS, which will regularly improve it, and we believe that the functioning of this system will be rationalised. Next, I could mention a point relating to the reserve fund. We agreed that the conservation of the reserve fund should remain at 1,5 percent of the health insurance undertaking's expenditure and not a reduction to 0,75 percent. It's for a simple reason. We understand that it may be so-called dead money, but it is money that helps with accounting, and therefore it should remain in the law, regardless of the fact that we know that sometimes the reserve fund is not being respected, which is not quite right. Because even if it's a small amount, in critical situations, any crown would still be good. It is also, for example, a system of public procurement for health insurance services, which is now being published and approved by the Board of Directors in excess of CZK 5 million. We have proposed that this amount be reduced to CZK 2 million for both VZP and employee insurance companies. Yes, there could have been some reservations about the increase in the work in insurance companies, but after consulting insurance companies, and especially VZP, we were informed that such a matter would be handled. That could basically be everything to the resolution. Some amendments, which from my point of view were very interesting and very interesting and which the Ministry disagreed with, I will try again in the general debate to justify whether they are relevant or not. From my point of view, yes, but then, of course, I will ask the House for consideration and a vote. Not today, of course. So that, Mr President, could probably be everything at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Good afternoon, Madame, gentlemen. We will continue with the general debate that I am opening right now. I have several applications for it. The first is registered by Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna turn around like twice, so don't be scared. In my first performance, I would like to focus on promoting vaccination for seniors on pneumococcal. Pneumococcal diseases are a significant burden for the whole population, especially for adults. Invasive pneumococcal diseases and pneumonia, in particular, pose a significant risk. The Czech vaccine society adopted the recommended procedure, which was then approved by the National Immunization Commission for the vaccination of adults by age. For a group of 65 years or more, it is recommended that the conjugated polysaccharide vaccine be vaccinated with a subsequent booster of the polysaccharide vaccine. At the meeting of the National Immunisation Commission on 7 July 2014, it was stated that, within the Ministry, the question of the vaccination of seniors was discussed with the conclusion that it was not difficult to extend the above provision, that is § 30 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) point 4 of the Public Health Insurance Act on vaccination against invasive pneumococcal disease in over 65 years of age. Currently, according to this section of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, vaccination and reimbursement of a medicinal product with pneumococcal vaccine included among the paid services from public health insurance in the least economically demanding option only in children. For seniors over 65 years of age, only vaccination and the reimbursement of influenza vaccine are included in the paid services. Between 2006 and 2013, the number of people over 65 years of age in the Czech Republic increased from 1.5 to 1.8 million. The number of seniors over 65 years is expected to rise to 1.9 to 2.1 million between 2015 and 2019 with an increase of 49 thousand people per year. At the same time, data on mortality in this age group were extrapolated from 2006 to 2013, i.e. it is expected that 4.4% to 4.6 percent of older elderly aged 65 years will die each year in the next five years. Data on vaccination against pneumococcal diseases were derived from the historical development of vaccinations in the UK and Germany. Between 2006 and 2011, between 7.5 and 9.5% of the elderly aged 65 years were vaccinated in the United Kingdom. On average, 8.1 (%) of people in this age category were vaccinated annually. In other age categories, this is 66 to 80+, vaccination rates ranged from 2,5 to 16,1%. This was weighted by the representation of persons in individual age categories and thus the average proportion of vaccinated subjects over 66 years of age, which is 4.9 %, was derived. However, German data show that the rate of vaccination is lower, 4.5 percent for persons over 60 years of age, and therefore the rate of vaccination against pneumococcal diseases in seniors over 66 years of age has been estimated to be 4.5 percent. Thus, foreign data show that, with increasing age, the willingness to vaccinate linearly decreases. This is why a higher percentage of citizens who are vaccinated in the year in which they reach 65 years have been modeled. The recommendation of the Czech Society of Vaccines for pneumococcal vaccination in adulthood further stipulates that persons over 65 years of age are indicated for vaccination with conjugated vaccine and are subsequently re-inoculated with a polysaccharide vaccine, which occurs in approximately 10 percent of people. It is assumed, and it is not now that the vaccine is applied by a physician during a routine visit to a physician. In addition to the vaccine itself, its application is also covered. The current average price of conjugated vaccine is CZK 1,532 in the pharmacy, the polysaccharide vaccine for re-vacation of CZK 603. The vaccination itself is calculated at CZK 187. The net impact that will probably be much discussed here in the public health insurance budget will be between CZK 156 million and CZK 123 million in the first and fifth years in case of introduction of pneumococcal vaccination in seniors over 65 years of age, with a total of 4.4 percent of the vaccination. The cost of treatment of pneumococcal diseases in our Republic is CZK 1.16 billion in group 65+, which is 0.53 percent of the budget from public health insurance of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, the costs of vaccination of the recommended 65+ population are based on a tenth of this price, which is 0,055%. To the conclusion. It can only be said that the vaccination of our seniors against pneumococcal in the Czech Republic is alarming compared to the European Union. It's less than 1% over 65 years of age. There is a great lack of awareness of this type of infection among the elderly. A fully-paid polysaccharide vaccine with a need for re-inoculation every 3 to 5 years is in the elderly's homes. So there's a risk. And every fourth patient over 65 with invasive pneumococcal disease is fatal. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to ask you to support this amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u9	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová, for her performance. Mrs Jana Hnyková will now be given the floor, Mrs Maxová will be prepared one more time. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also comment on the Parliament's press 386. I would like to support from this point the amendment made by my colleague Maxová at second reading. We, together with my colleague Pastuchová, have also submitted this amendment to the Health Committee and wanted to extend the paid services to vaccination against pneumococcal infection in patients over 65 years of age. Seniors are the most endangered group in invasive pneumococcal diseases. Epidemiological data show that the mortality rate for people over 65 years of age in these infections is over 20 percent in the long term. These are particularly severe pneumonias, which account for about 80 percent of cases of invasive pneumococcal disease in the elderly of 65 years of age, and then for inflammations of the brain's blanes and others. The proposal, as we have heard here, follows the recommendations of experts and especially the National Immunization Commission as an advisory body of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic. At its meeting, the Commission agreed in 2014 that it was not difficult to extend § 30 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) point 4 of Law No 48/1997 Coll. At the same time, the Czech vaccine society has recommended that this vaccination be recommended since 2012, but this has already been mentioned by colleague Maxová. In the Committee on Health, we, together with our colleagues, made a proposal, as you heard today, one of the 40 and one of the 10 which did not pass, to amend this law, which would make it possible to make a legislative and good prevention possible. Unfortunately, this proposal did not go through the justification that VZP funds would be released in the area of prevention for vaccination against pneumococcal diseases. This may be true this year, maybe next year - but what about the years to come? And as I look around here in the Chamber of Deputies, we're going to need it soon, and that's why we could think about our future. [[17.40 hours]] From my many years of experience in social services facilities, I know how important it was for the prevention of seniors I cared for and cared for and how we had a minimal incidence of this disease. And the seniors in hospital were protected. Users of social services facilities are lucky. They fall into the group where this vaccination was fully covered by insurance. I would like to call on all of you to support this amendment at third reading and to remember the memorandum for the availability of healthcare to seniors, which clearly speaks: prevention in the form of medical procedures, interventions, must be fully covered. You have expressed your support for the document by signing and I remind you of this particularly prominent representatives of coalition and opposition parties YES, ČSSD, KDU-ČSL, KSČM. For our club, which has also joined the Memorandum, I would like to express our support for this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u11	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Now, in her second speech, Mrs Radka Maxová and a colleague, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I therefore now come up with a second amendment which concerns a completely different category. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, I am going to sign up for an amendment which concerns the so-called 'no'. voluntary involvement of the patient, i.e. the ability of insured persons to pay extra for medical devices. The amendment reads as follows: the provision of paid services to the extent and subject to the conditions laid down in this law, whereby the provider may not accept any remuneration from the insured person for those services; this does not affect the right of the insured person to negotiate with the provider for the provision of health services the use of a medical device more economically demanding than that which corresponds to the extent and conditions of the services paid under this law, by paying the part of the costs which exceeds the level of the services paid by the insured person himself. This amendment removes the confusion about the possibility of involving the patient. In current practice, the provisions of the law are unfortunately interpreted. It is surrounded by two ways: Through a list of performances where some performances are doubled into variants with and without the provider choosing for a paid service - e.g. some vaccination procedures. And secondly, in the form of donations to providers from which the acquisition and use of a more expensive medical device is compensated. In particular, the second method of donations is very dangerous to reduce transparency and security. This is provided by the provider of concerns about the restrictive interpretation of the law by the health insurance undertaking in the medical documentation - a medical device approved and not actually used. Such a procedure then breaks down the Vigilance procedure, reporting possible adverse events, and paradoxically reduces the level of security of this sensitive segment of products. How is this done in practice? Health insurance companies, respectively. their code lists, as has been repeatedly stated by the court, do not affect the reimbursement of a particular medical device. Amendment - such a procedure will allow a transparent procedure for the provision of health services, investigation of the right of policy holders to co-decision on their treatment. There is no restriction on paid services. By including the actual medical device used in the medical documentation, the patient's safety, legal certainty in the event of a dispute are increased in case of complications, and in general allows for effective vigilance and reporting of undesirable events. In general, misrepresentation of data on the provision of health services will be avoided. With the new Health Insurance Act, the registration role of health insurance coders as the only list on the market is completely gone, and there is no reason why health insurance companies should effectively regulate the access of insured persons to medical devices. If further, new, perhaps even more expensive means do not mean an increase in the expenditure of public health insurance funds, there is no reason to prevent them from entering. It should also be rejected the argument that health insurance companies are quasi-regulating code lists, in some way guarding the quality of the funds used. Medical devices are regulated by harmonised standards and subject to strict conformity verification processes. In addition, a very strict responsibility for the health service provided, including the resources used, is always borne by the health service provider, not by the health insurance undertaking. The purpose of the parliamentary proposal is therefore to make it clear that patients are free to decide on their own health through the choice of the medical device, which is not normally covered by the health insurance company, without the need to pay for the entire health performance or circumvention of the law by means of donation contracts. Therefore, the proposal does not interfere in any way with the planned process of determining the reimbursement of medical devices, but merely formulates transparent procedures in the situations described above. The proposed regulation does not interfere in any way with the rights of the insured person to the services paid, at least not by restricting or extending those rights in any way. The claim of insured persons remains clearly the same. It is based on his health and should be paid for as well. The proposal only deals with what it does with the amount outside the right to reimbursement without moving it or moving it in any way. I would also like to say that this proposal of voluntary participation is, in fact, supported by the leaders of our health care. And I consider it unethical that, for example. Women who experience breast amputation cannot choose a better means for their next life. I would very much ask colleagues to consider whether they would not add to this amendment, which I and Mr Janulík are proposing, and would not support it in further discussions in the health committee and at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u13	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová, and before the duly signed up colleague Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Janulík is, with a factual note, registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw you closer to this amendment on a classic example. This is a proposal that comes only from pure practice. Let us remember that we have been dealing with this for years flying, and at some point in time, I think he called it Section Fischerův, which blocked any possibility of excesses in a strange way. Remember, any of us could be forced to change our hips. And the example is this: you come to your orthopedic surgeon and he offers you the so-called. A cop, which is a hip joint with a 15-year warranty. Well, the minute you're 50, you say-- well, I'd imagine living longer than 65, so I'd like a joint that has a warranty period longer. Well, the 25-year-old German is worth, like, 35,000 60,000, so logically, you figure you're gonna pay 25 grand and you're gonna get the better one. Oh, no. The system doesn't allow it at all. And if you want the better one, you're gonna pay for it all, which I consider to be completely stupid discrimination and restricting my and anyone else's personal choices by choosing the better means. This is absolutely sad in the case of women after breast ablation, because of course everyone is not so socially able to afford all the price of the better implants that are aesthetically and for life, of course, significantly better for the woman. But the current system is forcing her to pay for it all. So paradoxically, the insurance company is going to save money, because it's going to make its insured person pay for the whole thing. I consider this to be immoral, which is why I am signing up for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u15	I thank Mr Janulík and now Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mrs Soňa Marková will prepare herself, but only after a factual remark from the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to add that there's no mistake that we're creating an overstandard here. Please, it's not an overstandard. Not at all. Because the other medical device might be more expensive, but that doesn't mean it's much better somehow. He's just worth something else. And we have that option, after all, every patient has the opportunity to choose a medical device that he likes in all aspects: quality, technical composition, etc. So I'd just like to point out that you don't misunderstand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u17	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka is now standing by and Soňa Marková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two amendments, which I have put into the system today under number 2272. The first amendment concerns the modification of the possibility of merging health insurance companies. It is not possible for health insurance companies to continue to merge without serious reasons, as has been the case since 2009 until now. I was in the Chamber of Deputies in 2009. At that time, the Chamber of Deputies approved a draft law on occupational health insurance companies, which prevented the merging of health insurance companies without serious reasons, that is, when those health insurance companies had no serious problems, and the bill stipulated that the Government of the Czech Republic would decide on such merger. Although the House approved this bill in third reading, on the same day, Minister Dana Jurásková approved the merger of the health insurance company Agel, which was unable with 60 thousand. insured persons and operational loss to function further, with Hutnický employee insurance company. Before the law passed the Senate and came out in the Collection of Laws, she was able to sign the merger of the health insurance company metallurgical and Agel with the Czech National Health Insurance Company. These merged insurance companies were then renamed the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company. Then the law came out in the Collection of Laws, paid for two years, basically nothing happened. At the time when the law was amended in 2011, and the blocking paragraph was removed from this law, and it was released with the intention that the Health Insurance Company of the Ministry of the Interior would be merged with the health insurance company of the Military Region, but the merger did not take place, but the first thing that followed, the request to the Ministry of Health to allow the merger of the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company and the then very healthy insurance company METAL-ALIANCE. The result was a merger. Today the insurance company Czech industrial has over 1,200,000 insured persons. Of course, the number of insured persons depends on the income of the insurance undertaking, etc., etc. Basically, if a bunch of people or, say, an interest group, a group of important employers who nominate the vast majority of the board members, it's a total of ten people from the board of directors, if they decide to merge with some health insurance company, then basically somehow convince the other health insurance company, virtually. All we have to do is convince only eight members of the board of directors of the second health insurance company, and, as I was told, the Ministry of Health has nothing to do but sign the merger. Which is completely absurd and violates any principle of normality, because that is a violation in my view and in competition law. That it is often said that those health insurance companies have the right to self-government, to say that this is not entirely true. They have a right, but it's not a government. Because ordinary insured people don't have anything to talk about until the insurance company runs and, in particular, the merger. The composition of the Management Board is decided by important employers or, where appropriate, major trade unions, according to the 2006 Decree. So there's no way to talk about an insurance company. And it is often contrary to the public interest, because in the interests of insured persons of the other health insurance company, which in most cases has always been more financially healthy, it has never been possible for them to merge with an insurance undertaking that has, say, worse indicators than that of their health insurance company. That is, therefore, the proposal I am putting forward, which I will bring up in a detailed debate. So now I would like to add to the second amendment. In my opinion, it is unbearable for practice to continue, as is normal at the moment, when actually the dispute proceedings between health insurance companies and providers take place up to four months before the end of the year. Then the Ministry and health insurance companies have some time to settle their comments, and then it comes down to the fact that the Ministry of Health is actually issuing a payment decree, which is the basic document for how health care will be paid at the end of the calendar year. It is often 30 or 31 December, which is completely absurd. And it turns out, and it turns out this year that basically health insurance companies have to prepare health insurance plans, they have to be based on some assumptions that, let's say, are based on the Ministry of Health, which prepares a draft decree or basic parameters. Health insurance companies in their bodies will discuss the draft health insurance plan and the final version of the payment decree, which will be published in the Collection of Laws, is then significantly different from what was previously negotiated with those health insurance companies. That's a completely abnormal fact. This means additional costs which health insurance companies then bear. And, of course, it doesn't put peace in the health insurance system. That is why I would like to propose that the deadlines move forward so that it is possible to adopt a payment decree by the end of the calendar year and, consequently, health insurance plans so that they respond to the definitive decree by the end of the calendar year. So this is about the proposals that I will then make in a detailed debate, and I will also give due reasons. I hereby declare myself at the same time in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u19	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. I keep his application in a detailed debate. Now, Mrs Soňa Marková, Mr Leoš Heger will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Allow me to comment on this bill, but also on the amendments that have been made in the Health Committee and also on my previous speakers' discussions. The transaction amendment, which we used to call this amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act, we have here on the table, aimed at adapting the new four basic areas, namely the publication of contracts, which I think was the main motivation for transparency, the extension of information obligations, the ban on recruiting insured persons through third parties, and the reduction of the allocation to the health insurance reserve by half. It was when I first read this bill that I pointed out that I consider this reduction in the allocation to the health insurance reserve by half as the worst and most dangerous, least responsible thing written here. A system that manages more than 200 billion. Kroner, it can't work without reserves. Already the reduction from 3% to 1,5 percent was irresponsible, and another reduction to 0,75 percent was completely incomprehensible. It should be recalled that it is precisely because of the VZP in the years so called. She gathered about 14 billion in abundance. CZK reserves, so the effects of the global economic crisis have not actually occurred in the first years and the decline in recent years has not reached such catastrophic proportions. [[18.00 hours]] Health insurance reserves are providers' reserves, because if, in the case of an increasingly expensive health care, the withdrawal of insurance will stagnate or even decrease, the insurance companies will be able to pay the providers in time and in the necessary amount, thanks to the reserves that will be created in previous years. In addition, the reserve fund should not only be used as a bailout facility but in crisis situations, e.g. by the pandemics. It is not clear here how the petitioner can propose such a drastic reduction in the reserve fund without another. That is why I welcome the amendments that came during the health committee meeting and which are actually returning it to the original 1.5, although I think that this would be possible here to increase to the original 3%. In discussing this bill, which was supposed to be such a quick transparent amendment, as usual, when this law on public health insurance and insurance companies opens up, a huge number of amendments are actually being tabled. Many of them, and as the rapporteur has also announced here, came and come from the workshop of the government coalition, which is certainly spicy, and then the discussion on the health committee was very intense, but also inconspicuous, because it often happened that it was not clear who represented the opposition and who represented the coalition. The proponents of these amendments certainly cannot be denied an effort to address the long-term problems of the Czech health sector, but on the other hand, I have remained completely incomprehensible in order to increase the role of the Ministry of Finance in the area of health. I confess that the explanation that this is about money, and so it should be done by the Ministry of Finance, scared me a little. So it means that we could cancel all the ministries and leave only the Ministry of Finance, because everywhere, in all areas, money is decided. I think that's the logic of the matter. So let's keep one ministry, the Treasury, and we can cancel the rest, and maybe save some. According to my colleague's amendment The Ministry of Finance would thus gain much greater powers in terms of merging health insurance companies, providing return assistance to health insurance companies, as well as nominations to the board of directors of such insurance companies. I confess that these amendments are absolutely unacceptable to me personally. It is also not quite clear to me that the amendment to the decision-making of the board of directors of health insurance companies for public service contracts, where the sum of CZK 2 million without VAT for all health insurance companies is united. It has been so far that it was CZK 5 million for VZP and CZK 1 million for health insurance companies, which, in my opinion, corresponds to the different amount of funds that individual insurance companies manage. On the contrary, the amendment I welcome is the extension of the paid service to vaccination against pneumococcal infection for insured persons over 65 years of age. Although it has not been accepted on the Health Committee, as has already been said here by my previous speakers, I firmly believe it will be supported by the Chamber of Deputies. Seniors are one of the most risky groups in which streptococu pneumonia bacteria can cause a number of diseases ranging from central inflammations to lung inflammations to the most severe invasive diseases, where meningitis and sepsis mainly fall. I believe that any public health insurance costs will be offset by savings after our seniors are protected by this vaccination and are not sick by the diseases mentioned. Finally, I would like to strongly, very strongly warn against the highly dangerous amendment by Mrs Maxová and Mr Janulík, which would allow for an uncontrolled increase in the participation of patients. Without adopting such an amendment, we do not provide by law exactly what will be covered by public health insurance, such an amendment cannot be accepted. I would like to point out that this amendment has been withdrawn from the Committee on Health, we have not been able to discuss it at all, and I really consider it very dangerous and dangerous in my view that it is in conflict with Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and that it is part of our Constitution. In my opinion, such an amendment cannot be accepted when negotiating a completely different law without consulting the whole of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. I now have two factual points before Mr Heger, who was duly registered, and the first point in fact from Mr Svoboda and then from Mr Janulík. I will ask the House for peace so that Mr Svoboda can speak in order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to Mrs Marková, whose words have just been heard here. We have to realize that when we decide that a patient can buy a better replacement, better material for the hip than the insurance company pays him and doesn't give him any, we don't make any major decisions about the insurance system, we don't interfere with any of the patient's rights, because everything he's entitled to gets, but we allow him to get something better, if that's an option. It's very important. Of course, we can say that it's a question of boob replacement, it's aesthetic, it's also for a person who's an athlete. If he gets a good hip, he'll just be able to ski again, he'll have to play football, which is impossible. The law that does not allow this, the law of Mrs Fischerová, the famous law, is simply a pasquil, which has already hurt many, many people simply because they do not have the opportunity to see as well as they could see. So I would like the Members to see well and vote well on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u23	I thank Mr Svoboda for his time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Janulík and two further factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I, through your colleague, spokesperson. This is really, in the words of classics, deep but deep misunderstanding, because if we are referring here to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the current state is deeply violating it, because it prohibits me from buying with my money what I just want to buy. A colleague through Mr President, it is the same as when they sell you a car in Jarov and forbid you to drive it around Prague. That's absurd and completely stupid! Let's put ideology away and take our senses into the hand and don't tell me who does it every day in practice. I can just buy what I want with my money, and here the state forbids me to buy what I can just buy. So if I want a better hip, I'll just buy a better hip. And don't you ban me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u25	Thank you. Mr Ivan Pilný is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u26	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I belong to a group that had to choose in some way, because I had cataracts and I was given a choice between what to get lenses, so I know what I'm talking about. I would say that the health system is going to have a big problem with the ageing population giving these people something, no matter what kind of compensation they are. to me, that someone can pay extra and not pay the full amount, is not at all discriminatory, but on the contrary extends a number of options to those people because it doesn't have to be paid only by them, it can be paid by their children. By not paying the full amount, only a supplement is paid, and seniors will live to be older and older, so they should receive it, in which I see no discrimination, in which I see enormous potential and the possibility of meeting people in some way. Therefore, for all so-called active seniors, I would very much advocate that the Chamber of Deputies accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u27	I thank Mr Pilý for his time. Now, Mrs Radka Maxová, also on the point of fact. Then, Mrs Soňa Marková, prosit, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u28	Thank you. I also have to respond to my previous speaker. I'd like to read some of our experts here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u29	I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Fellow Members, my colleague, I would like you to bring the discussions outside the topic into the foyer. Proceed, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u30	Sadly, while in cosmetic surgery, we never gave this implant to women, i.e. the cheapest, but always the finest, so these women who got him were always after breast cancer and eagerly waiting for its reconstruction to make them feel like women again. Unfortunately, the insurance companies paid for only this cheapest implant at the time. The terrible thing is that these women were often interested in paying extra, but they can't. I find it unethical when a woman like that with cancer ends up in a private clinic where she pays 100,000 of her own, that means performance and a medical device just to get the best. I've told many health ministers, but somehow it doesn't have a result. Another thing is that there are currently 500 women waiting for prophylactic mastectomy and breast reconstruction after ablation. The main reason is, inter alia, that only six implants per month are allocated from the hospital flat-rate, the number of which cannot be exceeded for economic reasons. I think that this amendment should not be perceived at all as Mrs Marková says, but vice versa. It's a service for our patients, for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Soňa Marková, Mr Štětina will be prepared, as will all of us. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u32	Thank you for the floor. I believe that what I said here is causing some emotion. But, folks, you still don't realize that this discussion took place here at a time when the right-wing government actually wanted to adopt standards and standards. And they were right about the fact that before we clearly tell the law what the patient was entitled to... And let's remember one thing -- you who talk here and talk very flamingly, and I believe you, so realize that not all people are rich and have what it takes. That means we can't split up the disease by that... the disease or the injury doesn't choose whether the person is rich or poor. We should all be entitled to health care, which is consistent with our illness and what medical device we need. There's no difference between a poor and a rich patient. There's only one patient and they're supposed to be treated lege artis. That's just the way it is, and at least it's still gonna be until we say in this company that it's gonna be different and that those who have more money will be treated sooner and better than those who don't have money. Those guys are bad luck. And if we say it here, and if anyone votes here and it's in the law and the Constitution, then please, but until then, it's probably pointless to have this discussion, and it's tricky. Such a matter can be dealt with by an amendment that we could not discuss at all. It's not that we shouldn't pay or pay, but let's take step one first before we start taking step two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u33	Thank you. Now other factual points. I apologize to Mr Heger. The first, with a factual point, of course, already announced by Mr Štětina, then with a factual remark by the rapporteur and another in the order that I have here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u34	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, after five years of sitting here, I don't really care what the government is in power, right-wing or left-wing. It doesn't matter, nothing's changed, it's the same. But we don't have bad health at all. People don't die on us because they don't have money. I finish my brief performance with one question: Ladies and gentlemen, and what bothers us to cancel this point No. 31? And now don't be mad at me, colleagues, neither from the left nor from the right, I really see it as a big brake. So let's call things the way they are. There are 200 of us here, and hopefully 101 will find us here who will cancel this nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u35	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, the rapporteur, Mr Vyzula. Otherwise, when it comes to constitutional law, it's always three fifths, or 120. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I already told you, let's not talk about high standards. It's completely different. It's just a patient has a right to make a decision. He has a right to make a decision. Even at the moment, I have to tell my colleague Marková that basically the richer one, the one with the money, can buy any medical device. He can just buy the whole thing. At least this proposal allows a lot more people to pay for the difference between the paid and the undefeated. Let's talk more about paid and undefeated medical devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u37	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, once again, Mr Janulík's factual remark. Mr Plzák will prepare himself, also for a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u38	Thank you. Everyone present, I'll say it again. That's a really deep misunderstanding. This isn't about distribution, this mantra poor - rich patients. Oh, my God, that has nothing to do with it. That doesn't affect the system, the bazaar that's today. We're not talking about large sums here, we're just talking about telling the patient - so either you get an ordinary Masonic cast, which the insurance company pays and costs 200 CZK, or a light plaster that costs 400 CZK, which is the difference of CZK 200, that anyone will understand. So logically, the patient says, well, I'll pay 200 CZK and I'll have a light one. But we're gonna say no, no, no, no, no, sweetheart, you're gonna pay 400 CZK because the insurance company wants to save that CZK 200. Here's an absurd system that contradicts common sense. Let's not mess with the mantras about poor and rich patients. That has absolutely nothing to do with it. Let's keep our standards and standards out of this. It's just that if I want to pay extra for something, I just want to have that right. This contradicts the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. I don't have the right to get what I want? Under the conditions laid down by law? So, once again, my colleague, through Mr President, this is a deep misunderstanding. The amendment does not affect this at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u39	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Plzák. Mr Svoboda will be prepared with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u40	Thank you, Mr President. For Mrs. Marková. I mean, this place already exists. Look at dentistry. You'll lose some teeth or more teeth. Part of the job will be paid by the insurance company, and then it's up to you to pay for it: if you put on a titanium pin and a brand-new tooth, or if you solve it with a bridge. Each price is different. It's already here, except it's only in dentistry and it's not anywhere else yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u41	Now Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, also on the point of fact, then on the point of fact of Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u42	I apologize to Mrs Marková through you, because everything is in the direction of her, but it really is a complete misunderstanding of the vision of the world. To say that we provide the care of non lege artis to the poor, and to those who pay... I'm just pointing out that the cheapest implant the insurance company pays for is implanted lege artis. It has nothing to do with medical science and art. And I'm pointing out that if you give the patient a chance to pay 5,000 crowns, he'll have a lens that will probably last until he's dead. Otherwise, they'll trade it to him in five years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u43	Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr Josef Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this amendment seems logical, there seems to be nothing problematic about it, but I note that repeated attempts in this sense have been made several times and it has always come across legislation. I therefore recommend prior caution before deciding on this proposal, because it is not as simple as that and we must look at the amendment, if that is the case, as was said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u45	I thank Mr Hovorka. Now, Mr Josef Hájek and then Mrs Soňa Marková, also still on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u46	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for joining the doctors, I would rather be here from the point of view of the patient. I could see it in two planes. If I remember correctly, and I go to the eye, the doctor will prescribe free glasses, such bony. I haven't seen anyone around here wearing glasses like this. And when I go into the optics, they say to me, do you want these bony glasses? I'm gonna put them on and say, "I'm sorry, I don't want to scare the kids, so I'm not gonna take them. And she says, okay, so I'm gonna subtract the glasses from the price of the glasses you're gonna buy here for the seven eight grand. That's one look, I understand. From the other side - are we in the Czech Republic and what is the threat in the Czech Republic? Well, we're paying for Marková of the leg, so we're going to give the leg a wooden, that's the standard, which means we're going to make today's metal foot a wooden leg, and you, citizen, buy! Hardwood will do you good, that means you've got support. They figure it's gonna be oak wood with a fortress of 100 newtons per square inch, and then buy the metal, or you can use the computer-controlled one. So from this point of view, I would be careful, and I would really look at the amendment from this point of view of health insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u47	Thank you. Now, Mrs Soňa Marková. I believe that this will be the last point of fact and it will reach duly registered colleagues. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u48	I assure my previous speakers that this is neither a misunderstanding nor an understanding of what they were trying to imply. It's just a different perception of the world, and that's what it is here, and whether we look from above or from below. That's one thing, one point. Otherwise, through Mr President, I wanted to assure my honourable colleague Mr Svoboda that I really did not talk about the provision of care to non lege artis in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u49	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and then Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u50	Thank you. That's the joke of when the state should decide. He has to decide that he simply does not give a wooden leg, that it is not the right replacement in the 21st century. But he can say he's just not gonna put it out of ebony wood. It can be. That's what this is about. If a wooden leg works the same way an ebony leg works when you want it to be like a wooden prosthetic. Then I would understand that the wooden state is being paid for, and I will pay extra for the ebony, because it has no meaning but elegance. And so it is. You don't refer to something simple. It's about that - the state has and decided to do this. And if it's a wooden leg or a porcelain joint, it doesn't matter. And what's above that is something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u51	Thank you. Mr Blažek has withdrawn from the factual point of view, so we will not hear the legal explanation, and we can continue with Mr Leoš Heger's speech, still in the general debate, I note, still. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank the lively debaters for letting me in and letting me in when I can only be envious of the order that I have been placed in, because the debate is quite much concerned with the amendment that I tabled with my colleagues Skalický and Plíšek. It relates to the creation of tariff rates, but it is close to what is very delicate in our health care, and that is the constitutionality of our laws and precise definitions. And the discussion speaks not only of ideology, but also of constitutionality, a little bit that has taken place here. I must begin by saying that I am a little envious of my ANO colleagues, such as KSČM's protection, how they achieved the perfection of negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies, because the discussion on this subject when we put forward proposals, and we did not come as far as we could, to such an impact, to allow ourselves to submit proposals on orthopedic implants, and we presented things only as lightened plaster, and yet the discussions here were much longer and much juicier and usually ended by dismissing the government. So today it really works a little better on the coalition side. And perhaps, in recent years, Mrs Marková has been a little exhausted from these debates, so she is no longer willing to lead them into the late nights as they were led by a blissful memory three years ago. [[Laughing]] Now, seriously, please. I just wanted to introduce a proposal that still hangs on the House system, but I am basically no longer going to report to it with my colleagues because it was incorporated into the committee proposal, at least in the vast majority of its points, although not 100%. I have to say thank you to the Ministry of Health because it has been very helpful to clarify the wording, and the resulting product is therefore in the resolution of the Health Committee, but I think it will be interesting to mention only really quickly what is going on, precisely in relation to the constitutional side of the debates that have been raised here around the above-standards. We have decided that we will enter the transparency law by activities around the creation of a list of performances with point values, which are a little widespread in the amendment's power section, the authorisation to issue a list of performances, but we have concluded that the authorisation can be made even more extensive and precise to avoid discussions, which are particularly about the entry of new technologies into health insurance payments. And when I remind you of the last six months, you'll be right to say that the discussions about the payment of proton therapy or the reimbursement of stem cells are very long, endless, they don't come to easy conclusions and, in particular, they're not well-founded by law. And the foundation of the law is very important. I would say, just for the previous discussion, I will return one day to the fact that the section of Fischerová, which did not allow any remuneration, was significantly weakened by previous amendments to Act 48, so today, a part of lawyers, including lawyers, who are very constitutionally acriminal, believe that even the current law allows for a certain degree of payback on the lens that is such a symbol. But, of course, it is a matter of better legal wording so that, in the event that the possibility is actually admitted here in the House in some way so that it is formulated in the law so that it does not have reservations against the Constitutional Court, as it has against our above-standards that we have done, but that there are no legal disputes over the various practical examples that are taking place and where lawyers and, in turn, Members are having discussions really endless. [[18.30 hours]] The plan around the tariff was that we extended the definition so that there was not only the strict statement of the point value and the description of the performance, or a description of the conditions under which it is reported, aka under which it is therefore covered by health insurance, but that there were some procedures described as the tariff was formed, that the Ministry had certain obligations to issue the tariff on time, so that it could be incorporated into the health insurance plans, which was already mentioned by Mr Hovorka on the outside in connection with the payment decree, but also that there was an obligation for the executive to regularly upgrade the list of performances if he lost his objective view of the prices and the reimbursement of those performances. These procedures eventually introduced a commission which will be an advisory body of the Ministry, which will continue to form the legislative way as a decree. I am just pointing out that this legislative procedure is actually half the procedure that is now in the payment of medicines, when the medicines first come into some kind of authorisation with registration and only in the second half their prices are set, but not the prices that are in the tariff, which are de facto somehow binding as after entry into the tariff for insurance companies, unless the payment decree provides otherwise, but in any case the tariff as a decree cannot function as a limiter of care. And this is what the Constitutional Court has also taught us, that if this care is restricted only because of medical reasons, it is possible to make a decree, and if it is limited for economic reasons, as has been mentioned here about double medicine, for the poor and the rich, if even for the rich it would be restricted for economic reasons, because it does not, as we all know, have health insurance for everything, then in such a case it is an obligation for the limitation of reimbursements to be enshrined directly in the law. Either by listing in the attachment, as it is with dentists or cosmetic performances, or by determining the procedure as it is with medications. So the amendment attempt launches further discussions on how to continue this, but so far, if the proposal passes, at least the form of performance entering the performance list should be clarified, so that there is no immediate discussion and there are rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u53	I thank Mr Heger. And now one more factual remark from Mr Janulík. That would probably be the end of the general debate if I don't see anyone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u54	Thank you, Mr President. That's the last one, and it's not as factual as it is purely personal. Please, if not even this simple, absolutely crystal thing that can't be better for people than just correcting the lawless state that just lasts here. Even at this point, as some say, we are unable to agree in this honorable assembly and we will turn it around. Some of you turn it around completely, you do, you say it's dangerous. So I just personally add to it the words of a classic: it's futile, it's futile, it's futile!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u55	Thank you for keeping time. On a factual point, if no one from the point of view applies, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the Minister's final word. No. The rapporteur is interested in the final word after a general debate. He doesn't. Thus, the proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for its consideration pursuant to § 93 para. 2 has not been filed, Mr rapporteur? At least I didn't notice it. The Organizing Committee is finished, just a renegotiation on the committee. It's not like that. So I can launch a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. So we will now be in the order of the detailed debate. Madam Radka came forward first... The rapporteur. Please take precedence in a detailed debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for some amendments and, at the same time, justify them briefly. For one thing, it is an amendment that we have embedded in the system under number 2252. It contains four parts. I must admit that I have already presented all these at the health committee meeting and have not yet been accepted, but I would like to assure you that this is not the kind of danger that my colleague Marková was talking about, but that this is a logical thing. In the first part, I propose that the government will play a role in merging employment insurance companies, based on the observations of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. Like nothing against it, but basically it's just that the government should have a role to play in these matters. In the second part, the amendment concerns the provision of return financial assistance. I propose that the Ministry of Finance be given priority here, but after consultation with the Ministry of Health. So there is no weakening of the position of the Ministry of Health. And yet these are state budget funds and should primarily be proposed, this merger, by the Gestapo, or by this assistance actually, by the Gestapo and the administrator of the state budget, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] On the next point, the proposal deals with the specification of the conditions under which the merger takes place, provided that one of the insurance undertakings fails to fulfil its obligations towards insured persons and providers to the extent specified in the approved health insurance plan for the year in question. This is where she was -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u57	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace, because I would like at least the stenographic service to record your speech when others are no longer paying attention. And I would also ask colleagues who are delaying the Minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u58	Thank you, Mr President. On this point, there was some hesitation that a health insurance undertaking may fail to comply with the health insurance plan for six months, and that would actually meet the condition of merging insurance companies. On the contrary, if paragraph 1 is adopted, this means that the government will decide all this on the basis of the statements made by the ministries of health and finance that will ensure that such a special-purpose action cannot take place. And then, in the fourth part, it is about what composition should be proposed by the board of directors of employees' insurance companies. I propose that there be three members on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, two members from the Ministry of Finance and ten members then elected from among insured people. The practice has been that five members have been elected from the Ministry of Health and ten members elected from the insured employees' insurance company. So that's all there is to it. And I would really like to assure you that this is in no way a weakening of the position of the Ministry of Health in the management and control of employees' health insurance companies. [[18.40 hours]] The real aim is to correct a certain deformation approach of the Ministry of Health to manage and control employees' health insurance companies applied after 1. 5. 1995 and thus ensure fulfilment of the Ministry of Finance's competence according to the division of the competence law. In other words, divide the co-responsibility of both ministries for transparent but effective public spending of 250 billion, of which 62 billion from the state budget per year. That was the first suggestion. Secondly, I would like to apply to the proposal under number 2254. It is a proposal that, I confess, came from the Czech Association of Pharmaceutical Companies, and the media immediately accused me of lobbying for pharmaceutical companies, and yet if they read this proposal properly, they would find it for patients and not for pharmaceutical companies. It restricts pharmaceutical companies and allows the patient to always be provided with a fully-paid drug, not only as being recognised but really available on the market. The practice doesn't make it possible. There are various speculative steps that lead to the drug being placed on the market, then its price is knocked down, then the original drug leaves the market, the drug that brought low price is not available, and the patient has to buy another medicine that is on the market but with a supplement. And the payout doesn't have to be small. That is what the whole amendment is about. At the same time, the media are dragging me around enough now, trying to hurt health insurance companies. The next amendment to which I wish to apply is number 2280 and it is basically just a matter relating to the effectiveness of this law, where I propose that this law should take effect on the 15th day following its publication, with the exception of the provisions of Article 5, point 24, which shall take effect on 1 February 2016. As a justification here, I propose to change the fixed efficiency given in Amendment 1. 7. 2015, effective flexibly in order to eliminate the risk that the law will be declared in the Collection of Laws with passed effect. I wouldn't like that. That's all, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u59	I thank the rapporteur for the proposals tabled in a detailed debate. Now, Mrs Radka Maxová, Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Madame, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I have justified all my amendments in the general debate, which is why I am now signing up for Amendments 2095, 2279 and 2094, which are inserted into the system, and I am withdrawing Amendment 2268. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u61	Thank you. These are the individual documents that were in the system. Now, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, I am signing up for the amendments that I have put into the system under number 2272. These are two separate amendments to PM1 and PM2. The first amendment concerns the merger of occupational health insurance companies, which says that the consent of the government and the occupational insurance companies should be requested to merge only if one of the long-term insurance companies, at least six months, does not fulfil its obligations towards insured persons and providers, in particular to the extent approved by the health insurance plan for that year. At the same time, I propose that the Board of Directors decide on the merger of health insurance companies by a two-thirds majority of all members of the Management Board. [[There's a constant heavy noise in the hall.]] To justify it, I would like to state that, given the seriousness of the Institute for the merger of health insurance companies for the whole health insurance system and its pluralism, I propose tightening the conditions for the possibility of requesting the merger of health insurance companies, while at the same time requiring the approval of the merger of health insurance companies by the government. In all these cases, which I have mentioned since the merger of the health insurance company Agel with the Hutnický employee insurance company, then the Czech National Health Insurance Company, the Metal Alliance or the merger of the General Health Insurance Company with the Medical Insurance Company MEDIA, the merger has been carried out in violation of the public interest and the interest of at least one of the insurance companies, but all mergers have been approved by the administrative boards of health insurance companies and subsequently by the Ministry of Health. Specifically, HZP was a health insurance company with stable management in 2009, a high number of insured persons and sufficient financial reserves, as well as the Czech National Health Insurance Corporation. ZP Agel was originally a failed businessman Tomáš Chrenk's project, whose medical holding was to be supplemented. Despite an aggressive marketing campaign, only 60,000 insured persons have gained a high operational loss. After the merger with the Hutnická employee insurance company, the resources of this insurance company were used to recover the losses of the failed health insurance company Agel. The HRP Board, including representatives at the Ministry of Health appointed by the Government, has therefore clearly decided to merge in a clear conflict with the interests of its insured persons. Balances of the fund -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u63	I, my colleague, will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace! I should have continued my ambition at some point, but this will probably not be possible in this noise, so please at least if I promise not to start another point after the end of this point, let individual Members justify their proposals in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u64	The remainders of the HZP before the merger amounted to CZK 2.7 billion. The Czech National Health Insurance Company was also a very healthy and well managed health insurance company, which had balances in bank accounts of CZK 1.4 billion at the time of merger. Media Health Insurance Company was a similar project of GES MEDICAL CARE of Ivan Zach's media entrepreneur. Media health insurance company reached only a small number of insured persons and produced a loss of almost 500 million crowns. Instead of ending liquidation for obvious economic deficiencies, there was a merger with VZP, resulting in the created debts of the health insurance company being taken over by the General Health Insurance Corporation to the detriment of its insured persons. The Metal Alliance health insurance company was an extremely stable and well-controlled insurance company in 2012, with positive economic results during the crisis. From the point of view of its insured people there was no need for merger, yet the Board of Directors and the Ministry of Health approved the merger with the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company. The Metal Alliance insurance companies thus went under an insurance company which they did not choose and which did not show nearly as good the results of the management as the Czech industrial industry and as their Metal Alliance insurance company. The balance in the bank accounts of the health insurance company of the Metal Alliance amounted to nearly CZK 1.6 billion in merger. During the merger, the Czech industrial health insurance company obtained free of charge in addition to 1 million 150 thousand insured persons and financial surpluses of combined health insurance companies amounting to 5,7 billion crowns. Similarly problematic was the planned merger of Revírní broské coffers, health insurance company, with the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company, which appeared at the beginning of this year. The branch brother's cashier, health insurance company, is a stable insurance company with above-average management results and well ensuring the availability of care for its insured persons. Nevertheless, it was threatened and still threatened to be absorbed by the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company without any influence from its insured persons. The claim that the management board of an employee insurance company represents an insured person is incorrect. This should be the case under the law, but the 2006 Implementing Decree actually excluded the right of the vast majority of insured persons to vote in the administrative and supervisory boards. [[18.50 hours]] In addition to the five members per state, only the so-called electorate appointed by the major insurance payers, i.e. the large companies in the law referred to as major employers and significant representatives of trade unions of these companies, shall elect the Administrative Board. However, citizens who are insured have virtually lost the right to vote and to be elected. Nor does the appointment of five representatives for a state have legal transparent rules. It is therefore clear that the board of directors of employees' insurance companies do not represent the insured and do not assume any political or legal responsibility towards them or the health insurance scheme. The quality of the work of some members of the board of directors of these insurance companies can be illustrated both on the aforementioned cases of mergers and on the medialized case of the purchase of luxury limousines Audi for the Director of the Health Insurance Office of the Ministry of the Interior, whose acquisition through obvious need has been approved by the Board of Directors. Law No 280/1992 Coll. calls for a fundamental reform, which must, inter alia, establish the professional responsibility of the board of directors. However, further undesirable and harmful mergers must be avoided before the Ministry of Health prepares this reform, as it is clear that the existing board of directors cannot be relied upon. And the Ministry of Health has always held the legal view that the Boards of Directors approved by the merger no longer have the option of effectively preventing and having to issue a positive decision on the merger. The proposal submitted is therefore a safety solution. It can be successfully doubted that the public interest would be violated in any way if mergers were prevented by the processing of the comprehensive amendment of the Occupational Insurance Act and the number of insurance companies would be stabilised until the comprehensive solution was completed. The proposed solution is in the interest of the pluralism of the health insurance system as well as of health insurance insured persons who are responsible for ensuring the availability of high-quality health services for their insured persons. At the same time, I recall that this proposed text was already part of the legislation in force from autumn 2009 to 2011. The second amendment, which I have just mentioned here, PM2, is that, unless there is an agreement in the conciliation procedure by 30. 6. calendar year or if the Ministry of Health finds that this agreement does not comply with legislation or with public interest, it shall determine the value of the item, the amount of reimbursements of paid services and the regulatory limitation for the following calendar year by the Ministry of Health by decree by 31 October of the calendar year. The current practice of issuing payment orders at the very end of the calendar year is unbearable and causes delays in the approval of health insurance plans for the following year's accounting period and subsequent closure of payment supplements with health care providers only during the calendar year with retroactive effect. In doing so, health insurance plans should be approved in a given calendar year in order to guarantee both health service providers and health insurance companies. It is absolutely necessary to prevent situations where health insurance schemes are prepared in many cases in advance. However, the resulting version of the payment order is often different from the parameters that health insurance companies received from the Ministry of Health in the draft decree. This raises the problems of the financial sustainability of health insurance schemes already approved by the administrative and supervisory boards. For these reasons, it is proposed to shorten the whole procedure and the issue of the decree by two months. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u65	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka for his contribution in a detailed debate. Mr Jaroslav Krákora, now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And once again, I will ask the House for peace so that the detailed debate can be completed... [[No reaction.]] Okay, if you don't want, we can cancel the meeting right now... and we'll deal with it another time. Thank you. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u66	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to adopt an amendment under number 2285 concerning the merger of health insurance companies. I'll be very brief. It's practically a variant design. One was served by Mr Vyzula, the other by Mr Hovorka, and the third is mine. Otherwise, there is proper justification and the amendment is very short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u67	Thank you. It is therefore the number of the House document, so that we are completely accurate according to the Rules of Procedure, where when you say numbers, so that we do not confuse this with the House prints. Please, now, Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u68	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to sign up for an amendment which is conducted in the House system under number 2277 and concerns the possibility for a health insurance undertaking to refrain from recovering part or the entire amount of reimbursement. The previous legislation, in particular the Decree of the Ministry of Health implementing the Regressive Compensation Act, had this possibility and was then abolished, so that the possibility of reducing or remission of the regressive compensation to citizens or reducing the regression compensation to organisations should be re-established. As I said before, current legislation does not allow this. I would like this adjustment to come back again, for reasons relating, for example, to insured persons in relation to property or family conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. Now, Mr David Kasal, who is the last in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendment that is being made in the system as House document 2263. In principle, this amendment regarding vaccination of children against pneumococcal infection maintains the current vaccination schedule of 3+1. This scheme is in line with professional recommendations. The alternative vaccination scheme for two doses of vaccine up to the seventh month of the age of the insured person, which is also mentioned in the approved summary of product characteristics, does not adequately take into account the fact that the vaccination of infants and children in the Czech Republic is lower than the level that would allow the application of this scheme. It is therefore proposed to delete the amendment point, which regulates the conditions for the reimbursement of vaccination against pneumococcal infection by reference to the State Institute for Drug Control approved summary of data, as there are concerns that, in the event of inadequate interpretation of the newly proposed version of the provision in question by health insurance companies, this would only be covered in the conditions of the Czech Republic by a lack of two-dose alternative scheme, this change could lead to an increase in the morbidity caused by pneumococcal infections, to a more difficult course of these diseases and to a potential increase in mortality, in a group of infants and very small children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u71	Thank you, Mr David Kasal. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Minister, yes. You have less than two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to do this in about two minutes, but I feel obliged to at least express the basic positions. I would like to comment on about two headings of amendments. The first were Professor Vyzula's amendments, which were actually identical to those rejected by the Health Committee and which I would characterize as Mrs Marková, namely, aimed at a fundamental weakening of the role of the Ministry of Health and strengthening the role of the Ministry of Finance. I cannot agree with these amendments because we simply have a law of competence here, and I think that the Ministry of Health is responsible for health, politically responsible and should have sufficient resources to really manage them. [[19.00 hours]] I do not really feel that the Ministry of Finance should have a small agenda and that it needs to be strengthened. Moreover, I think that the arguments that these are state budget funds are a little odd, because they are public corporations at the time they get into health insurance companies, and they are still largely made up of the collection of insurance premiums, not contributions from the state budget. I would very much like to warn against supporting these amendments, and I think that this has nothing to do with systemic solutions and transparency in health care. I would also like to comment on Mr -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-004-010.u73	Minister, I don't think that will be possible, because no one suggested a meeting after 7:00 p.m., and I will have to refer you to the beginning of the third reading with your statement. Because I would have violated the Rules of Procedure otherwise, because we are discussing laws. I warned you about this at the beginning, I am very sorry, but I could not influence the course of the debate. So there will be nothing left to say but that the time for discussing this point has ended, with the fact that I am reminding - just organizational matters - that there has been no proposal to return the guarantee committee for a renegotiation or in a detailed debate. In a detailed debate, there was no proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading, as this is not necessary, nor did there be a proposal for the guarantee committee not to deal with it. So it's clear that we can end the second reading of this proposal, and I'm ending it, too. I refer the Minister and the rapporteur to the beginning of the third reading in their reports, and that is all I have left. I will fulfil my obligation under the Rules of Procedure Act when I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, and announce that tomorrow morning we start at 9 a.m. with fixed points, that is paragraph 132, the timetable for the state closing account, 88, pension savings, third reading, because it is Wednesday morning and the meeting is also at third reading, then paragraph 89, the Civil Procedure Code, and 90, local fees. The last third reading tomorrow morning should be point 91, the road. This should settle the fixed points for tomorrow morning, then continue according to the approved agenda. With the appointment of a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council at 12:45 in the morning, we will still have one point in the election committee. So much for this afternoon's meeting. Thank you and have a good evening.
