ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse /house print 444/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the press will be listed directly by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to make a very brief statement on the content of House press number 444, which is the amendment to the Act on major market power in the sale and abuse of agricultural and food products. In general, on this proposal. The Act on Market Power was adopted in 2009. It was adopted as a parliamentary proposal to define the factual nature of the abuse of significant market power, which allows certain competitors to enforce unilaterally more favourable conditions, and to create instruments for assessment and prevention of such practices at the same time. The law assumes significant market power for competitors whose annual turnover exceeds 5 billion. CZK, unless this presumption is refuted by circumstances related to the structure of the market, barriers to market entry, market share of the supplier, customers, their financial strength, size of the commercial network of the customer or the size and location of its individual stores. Until now, the Authority has conducted a sector investigation in this area to become familiar with a relatively new field of competence and has initiated almost a dozen administrative procedures. However, when applying the law in these proceedings, he encountered interpretation difficulties concerning the fundamental concept of significant market power and, among other things, he also met with considerable chain obstructions by which they purposefully dragged through the entire proceedings. The unclear definition of basic terms leads to disproportionate extension of administrative proceedings and requires extensive evidence to maintain the principles of administrative procedure. Therefore, the aim of the proposed amendment to the law is to achieve a regulation that is more effective, easier to apply and will contribute to the improvement of the business environment in the Czech Republic. [[Noise in the hall.]] After a number of discussions, the government has adopted an amendment to the existing law on significant market power. It was also the Office for the Protection of Competition that was actively involved. The aim of the amendment is to achieve such legislation, which, as I have already mentioned, will allow for simpler, more effective enforcement of the law. [[15.40 hours]] With regard to similar legislation that exists abroad, and I would like to look in particular at the countries of the European Union, I can say that it is not true that the Czech Republic is the only state in which there is regulation of supplier-customer relations. On the contrary. By adopting this regulation, we have become one of the countries in which specific regulation through public law standards, whose compliance is controlled by public authorities, which decide on their infringement and the possible imposition of sanctions, has been adopted. As a general rule, States which have adopted and applied public regulation of a competitive nature to customer/contractor relationships provide as a condition for their application the existence of a specific position of one of the subscriber/contractor. In such a position are dominant competitors on the market, applying general competition rules, for example in Austria, or there are specific rules for defining a dominant position in a particular segment of the market, such as Latvia and Finland. Furthermore, the specific position of competitors whose position is defined either through the qualification of their market power, e.g. in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Great Britain and Lithuania, or the so-called economic dependence of suppliers on these competitors, e.g. in Germany, France, Italy, Portugal and Spain. As regards European level, unfair trade practices in the food sector were first discussed at European Union level in 2009. In 2010, an expert platform was established for contractual practices between enterprises, which published a set of principles and examples of honest and unfair practices in vertical relations within the food supply chain in 2011. The Green Paper on unfair commercial practices between businesses in Europe, the supply chain in the area of food and non-food goods, clearly shows that not only in the Czech Republic but also within the European Union, the same problems are solved in supplier-customer relations in the supply of goods for retail sale. Originally in the proposal for an amendment to the Act on significant market power submitted to the Government, there was also a change in the concept of the responsible entity, i.e. that not only the customer but also the supplier, so-called, will be responsible for the misuse of significant market power. mutuality. However, the government has not approved this change following the recommendation of the Legislative Council of the Government, and the law is only directed against unfair practices of trade chains. The new proposed change therefore counts on maintaining the so-called an absolute concept of significant market power, which protects only the weaker party. In order to achieve the purpose I have described, the following amendments are particularly part of the amendment. It is amended and clarified by the delinquent conduct of the mandatory entities expressed in Section 4 of the Act. It is deleted from the taxative list of the factual elements set out in the six annexes to the Act and there is a generalisation of the various groups of factual elements into more general terms, which become part of the new regulation in Section 4 of the Act. Last but not least, the amendment changes some procedural rules. The Government of the Czech Republic believes that simplifying the rules will lead to a clearer orientation in the law for all its addressees, while allowing for all certain predictability of administrative decisions of the Office for the Protection of Competition in the event of a breach of statutory obligations. I would therefore like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to express their consent to this proposal at first reading and to refer it to the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will also apologize to Mr Miloš Babiš from the meeting today at 5:00 p.m. Please the rapporteur, who is Mr Ladislav Velebný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister has presented us in detail with a bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse. In my reporting report, I would just like to remind you that the proposed proposal clearly defines the scope of the relations to which the law will be applicable, thus eliminating the doubts of some market players whether they fall or do not fall within the scope of the Act on significant market power. The concept of supplier and customer is being clarified, while it is necessary to welcome the new proposed legislation of a relatively new type of customer, by purchasing alliances, the unfair practices of which the Office for the Protection of Competition has recently pointed out. By including purchasing alliances in the scope of the Act on significant market power, respectively. By extending the definition of the concept of a buyer to a purchasing alliance, there will undoubtedly be an improvement in the law's applicability and an increase in certain legal certainty between suppliers. The proposal submitted responds to valid European food law and uses the concept of food, which means de facto all agricultural and food products referred to in this law. The essential elements of the contract and the contractual relationship are newly laid down. It will be based on a written arrangement, including the designation of the person responsible for this act, which will further increase legal certainty. While the amendment repeals all existing annexes to the Act on major market power, it replaces them with a much more flexible demonstrational list of practices that are prohibited and which reflect again the current situation in supplier-customer relations. The draft law does not implement EU law into the legal order of the Czech Republic and the proposal is therefore not contrary to EU law. Uniform binding legislation has not yet been adopted at Union level, so it is within the competence of individual Member States whether and how relations between suppliers and consumers in the food sector will be regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the key debate should take place both in the agricultural committee and in the economic committee. I therefore recommend releasing this House's press to second reading and ordering it to the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have an application for it, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that concerns me about the matter is that the law is always to be presented by the Minister of Industry and Trade. Otherwise, I don't know why we keep this ministry. [[Ambassador Faltynek is laughing on the bench.]] In the past - I don't know if it's funny, but I'm really starting to hesitate. Then it is really offered to let you go into the next reading or even to discuss the amendment of the law presented by Kalousek and I, about changing competences so that strategic companies can get under the MIT, so that it is evident that they are doing something. [[15.50 hours]] For many years, a great novel was supposedly being prepared in this ministry, because at that time, I no longer know who it was, who put the pasquil here, which is to be corrected by this amendment, and, of course, here in the atmosphere of great hysteria, how trade chains destroy small suppliers, not the big ones, such as the company of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance of Mr Babiš. In the past period, I have submitted a bill that would abolish this outrageous law, which I consider to be in Czech terms - I note in Czech terms - a typical product of the worst leftistness, which incompetently and unqualifiedly interferes with the market economy. I regret to say, then, that the government did not give a positive opinion on the simple amendment, so it remained as it did. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I don't blame the law. First, if we take the side of the vendors, i.e. the supermarkets, the hypermarkets on the left. Unlike Germany, where I could understand that this kind of... It's no use.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u7	I ask everyone in the hall to keep their voice down and allow Mr Laudát to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u8	Thank you. Unlike Germany, where, as I recall, about 48 percent of the market is controlled by one chain, there would be a certain authorisation. However, in the Czech Republic for each district according to surveys that I had recently available, there are five chains on one district, i.e. that there is a highly competitive environment, so I don't know why it comes with this. If I go back to the elementary approach at all, I believe that this law is completely unnecessary. I think that if someone is gaining dominance on the market, such as in some food commodities such as Agrofert companies, then they should hit the UOHS, which, I feel, was probably the processor of this novel, and Mr. Rafaj knows why he's putting it here, but we have a competition law, so that's where it belongs. I don't know why to rip one commodity out of the environment. If you vote in favour of this, this law and this amendment, please do not tell anyone that you are a central or right-wing party. No way. Because they are food, which is a sensitive commodity, but so are many other commodities from other areas regarding consumer goods. Therefore, it should simply regulate it, possibly dominant in the market, and it should guard the ÚOHS and regulate the competition law. I know that in the rush of some hysteria, this special law was created here. The European Union is thinking, and I do not know whether it already has any regulation in this area, but it is actually based on experience in countries where someone is dominant on the market. Which, once again, is not the case with the Czech Republic. Back then, when I was quite in depth about the current adjustment, I was shocked by how someone was able to completely brutally and unqualifiedly interfere with market relations with the obvious ignorance of the economy and economic relations. I do not know what analyses - and they are missing in the presented material - are made by Prime Minister Sobotka, because Mr Mládek does not present it here - and now he prefers to leave, which is also spicy. So we don't have any analysis on the material. I know that some of the analyses of the existing law at the time suggested that not only did the environment and conditions of small suppliers for large chains or large stores deteriorate because, given the total stew made by the authors of the law at the time, large companies were not sure how to interpret the law, so they preferred the collection of standard products, which were also available from our primary producers and processors, so they took them from Germany, Austria, to avoid questioning their behaviour. So not only have you not improved the market environment, but you have made the conditions worse for small suppliers. It is unclear to me, and perhaps this will be explained by the Minister of Industry and Trade or the Minister of Agriculture, why one side of the relationship is regulated, because the law on significant market power, virtually. on competition, it should always have two sides: the supplier and the customer. Here in this law it applies only to the customer, virtually. the seller, while the supplier, even if he has dominance and can abuse it, does not have any limits, unless he accidentally intervenes for some reason the UOHS, and as far as I know, I have no knowledge of any larger case of interference in the food market in recent times. I believe and I propose that we then, after the general debate, vote on the proposal to reject this argument, so that, if at all, the Minister of Industry and Trade has come up with a proper system law, that the UOHS should bear full responsibility for its interpretations of this law until now and its concerns about possible arbitration, and that is why I will make a motion to reject this law at first reading. I would like to hear here the Minister of Industry and Trade whether he will actually come up with his own proposal for a law on significant market power - but again, I would rather welcome it if he had come up with a possible extension and refinement of the competition law. Another matter will be, if the European Union decides, and then we have nothing left but to adopt their legislation, but it would be just another complication, but if the whole of Europe, the European Union, does so, we will probably not be much help to each other. Since the Minister of Industry and Trade obviously does not care about this issue, I am making a motion to suspend the discussion of this point until its arrival, and please, Mr President, to put this proposal to a vote now. In case you don't approve, I'll ask for a recess at the club meeting until the minister actually arrives. [[The minister is entering the hall.]] I brát it back. I would really like him to come forward now and say why he is not presenting this law, who actually prepared it for the government's negotiations, and whether he is preparing some of his own amendment to the whole law on significant market power or the amendment to the competition law. I'll wait. If he doesn't answer, then I'll actually take a break at the club meeting until he answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u9	I thank Mr František Laudát. I hope he doesn't insist on a motion to interrupt when the Minister arrived. Otherwise, if the Member listens to me, then I would like to say that I am a great advocate of parliamentary democracy, but if the government has decided that, instead of the relevant minister, it will directly entrust the Prime Minister to present the law, there is probably nothing the relevant minister can do about it, so in this respect, somehow his reservation seemed to me not too much to do. But the Minister is ready to answer the questions. [[Minister Mládek is standing at the speaker's desk.]] But I cannot give him the floor yet, because here I have a factual remark by Mr Bendl, so I will first have to give the floor to Mr Bendl on a factual point and then probably the Minister with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I think that this law does not require much detail. Those of you who were Members of Parliament during the past or previous period know that this bill has been in existence for a very long time, have indeed been under the pressure of the economic crisis, which has been in Europe and the Czech Republic, when different groups representing different business circles tried to find a way to ensure a legal place in the market, hoping that such a bill would help them ensure their existence in the future. I remember a lively discussion on the bill's proposal. Almost every time we wrote any paragraph, we always found something that question the paragraph, and in addition, how the paragraph can be bypassed and how it can be done so that the law can actually be embraced and eventually opposed to those who were plotting for the bill. We never found an absolute recipe to protect anyone. I think it's a law that's redundant, doesn't solve anything in the finals, brings more bureaucracy. And believe me, he'll turn against those if we approve him, who lobby for him today, and say that's the only way to protect the little ones against the big ones. I think that there is no original legislative recipe on the whole of the globe, that there is a way around it and, on the contrary, to prevent something like this coming into existence in our country is right. I will support the motion to dismiss this law. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, you have run out of time for a point of fact.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u11	Thank you. Now Minister Jan Mládek with priority rights on the questions that have fallen here. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, let me answer Mr Laudát's questions with you. First of all, I would like to say to the honourable Members by your means that this law has a kind of fluid competence minister, because I was here eight years ago presenting this law as the Minister of Agriculture. As Minister of Agriculture, it was historical. It can, of course, also be the Minister of Industry and Trade, and it can also be the Prime Minister, and it also has good logic, because there is such a thing as government legislation and the main authority that will eventually interpret this law or interpret it and interpret it is the Office for the Protection of Competition. That's just the way it is. And I'd quite forgive myself on the spot of some of my colleagues for the ridicule. The market economy is a battle for space in the sun, and the fight should be fair. And this House should humbly wonder if it can do anything to ensure that the battle for space in the sun takes place in a fair way rather than mock the losers. That's my only request. And if necessary, I will represent the Prime Minister in his place, in the position of the petitioner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u13	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek for his performance and I note that at the moment I have no... I have already applied for the debate - the Chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u14	Thank you for the floor. First, a brief response to the Minister. I certainly don't want to laugh at losers. I have doubts about the effectiveness of this instrument, and I want to mention a few facts or opinions that will support it. First of all, I'd like to hear from the petitioners, it might as well be the Minister of Industry, and I don't see any problem with that, to represent the Prime Minister, who it's supposed to help. In the explanatory memorandum, I would say that it is written exactly and rightly that two things are used in competition law in the European context, and these are prohibited agreements and abuse of a dominant position on the market. At the same time, the same explanatory memorandum correctly describes that none of those against whom this bill is supposed to be aimed are below the dominant position on the market and, at the same time, there are no prohibited agreements. So at this point, we can't deal with such a popular sentence and a popular approach: Brussels wants us to do it, the European Commission wants us to do it. None of this is true, because European competition law only knows the two - and I think serious - offences that I have talked about: both the prohibited agreements and the abuse of a dominant position on the market. We also have the Office for the Protection of Competition, by the way. I'm gonna take a little turn. I think that instead, in my opinion, it would be useless to amend a qualified debate about who will occupy the post of President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, because it is far from just public procurement, but it is precisely the area of abuse of dominant position on the market, possible mergers, etc., which, in the public area and in the public debate, I think is unjustly underestimating and all media attention and public attention is confined only to the area of public procurement. And as we learned in the debate about other bills or other problems, and now I will talk about drawing European money, so simply the decision of the Czech Office for the Protection of Competition in the field of public procurement concerning the drawing of European money is not relevant. I consider it a mistake, because it happens to the mayor that someone will challenge the competition, a public grant contract granted out of European money, the competition authority will ultimately be right in many cases that nothing has happened, that the law has been complied with, but that doesn't mean anything, because then comes an audit entity that can decide completely differently than the competition authority - and what does the poor recipient of the subsidy have to do with it? The Czech administrator and the Czech authority, which decides whether or not the law on public procurement has been complied with, will give it the truth and another group, the audit unit, will not give it the truth, and then there is often a refund of European money, to shorten claims, to fail. And we could go on like this. It is a great pity that this has failed since 2004, it is a period of eleven years that I am talking about, so please do not take this as a criticism of this government when I am talking about the period 2004 to make the decision of the Competition Authority to be authoritarian in the area of European money, so that we have one place that decides that the beneficiary of the subsidy should know that when this body examines it, it either has everything right or has a problem. Now, it really happens that the decisions go against each other, and the poor mayor in particular, what does he have to do with it? But I took a little turn, and I'm going back to the bill. Then I'd like to ask the Minister if he can tell me who it's supposed to be good for. When we model it, let's say it's approved, the existing law is valid for less than six years, just this morning or yesterday, I noticed that the competition authority had imposed some unfair fines and that it was the second time in the six years that it imposed a fine. About the first case that the media also wrote about, I don't know if he's finished by the end of the day or the trial continues. This in itself shows how the instrument is functional. If two fines fall in six years, one of which is definitely out of order, maybe the other is, I don't know, I don't know if the Minister has the exact information or not, so it turns out that the instrument may be attractive, maybe it's popular with some politicians, but it's not very functional. [[16.10 hours]] I'm afraid of these vague formulas that are in that bill that can be interpreted differently. This means, for example, quoting the proposed § 3: "The significant market power is such a position of the customer, in which the customer can impose an advantage on suppliers without a fair reason..." and now it continues. What's a fair reason? This is very subjective to me, and I think this also shows the frequency of the fines that it is very difficult to prove that something has been or has not been negotiated for a fair reason. I, who am a supporter of contractual freedom, say that contracts are voluntarily signed by both parties. If anyone doesn't want to sign the contract, they just don't have to sign it. That's what I think is a pretty simple principle, and I don't believe that regulation, because nothing but regulation is going to bring anything. It can bring this, as a result it can bring an increase in prices for consumers. That's not much to talk about. Although it is so delicately stated in the explanatory memorandum that consumers are also the group to which it will fall, in addition to consumers, suppliers. But I would like to say, if it is the intention of the plaintiff to pay more suppliers for goods or food, then what it will do with the final price. If we look, I didn't find it there, and it might be good if they were to identify companies that, according to the plaintiffs, could break the law on significant market power, so it would be good to go through their financial statements over the past years and see what profits they're making. And there's some space to cut margins, or there'll just be room to increase sales and raise prices. Because someone here wants to do good, and I'm afraid the good will fall on the consumer, that they'll just pay the same for the purchase. The argument that people don't know what they're buying, and they buy things that don't match the price, I just don't take it. I think that we are adults, responsible, and each of us can evaluate whether what he buys, whether he needs it and whether, in our opinion, the price corresponds to the nature of the product. The second question I would have to ask the Minister, and apparently the answer was contained in the fact that he proposed it as Minister of Agriculture. I mean, in those chains we talk about, and we give black Petr this way and point to them with the finger that they're the bad guys, they don't just sell food, but there's a lot of other goods. But the plaintiff doesn't touch that, and I'm asking why. Why it doesn't affect the other product, why it remains only with food. Not that I would suggest that I should not be misunderstood, that I would like to extend the portfolio of products or services that are affected by this bill. But I just don't understand. I do not see any quantification of economic effects in this bill - both on customers and on suppliers and consumers. And I think that if the law is as important as the government coalition is telling us, it should certainly be there. What do the plaintiffs expect at the time of the law's approval, let's say in the form they presented it? What's going to change against today? Who's gonna profit from this, and who's gonna lose it? And for me, for the third time, the most important consumers are those who buy. They should be profiting from it. I think that would be a reasonable intention. Otherwise, I think it's shooting in the wrong direction. I don't like it when in the debate, and it's not easy - the supplier, the customer, maybe some middleman, the terms, the competitive market, the demanding customer - to do the fair and say how we chose one group that we're talking about, they're the bad guys in the whole environment of the many players in the market, so suddenly we found, or at least we found the bad guys that they're targeting. [[unintelligible]] The third question I have for the Minister is the amount of possible fines. This has to do with the fact that there are no economic implications of the proposal. Would you say by example, Minister, if the UOHS had agreed to the fine of one percent of the net turnover, how much is the net turnover of the companies to which this law might apply? Let's think about how much the real amount of the fine is in the koruna and not in the percentage. I say for myself, I don't know how much net turnover they have and if one percent is 800 million or 80 million or eight. Well, that's not going to be eight, let's say. And I think it's very serious, because even in breach of the law, a fine shouldn't be liquidated. And then, if you have information, the law is that it wants to protect suppliers in chains. This is very often discussed, very often the advocates of this bill mention it. If we have any relevant information, how many chain suppliers have failed in recent years for economic reasons. Because I think that's a strong argument. If we're able to have any such statistics, have such data, and that number won't be small, it's definitely an incentive to think. Again, the bill doesn't bring any such information, so we're supposed to make decisions based on feelings and impressions rather than on facts and hard numbers. I'd like to ask the Minister if he could answer my questions. Then I'd continue not to give so many in one performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u15	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I will say in the interim order: Petr Bendl, then Mrs Balaštíková, then Mr Laudát with priority right, and then Mr Herbert Pavera duly signed in. Now, therefore, Mr Petr Bendl's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u16	Thank you for the floor. I've run out of time before, so I'm gonna try to use those two minutes more efficiently now. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture to tell us which areas this proposal will help, what effects he expects from this, what the specific proposal will bring, how the Ministry of Agriculture will eventually enter into these relations, etc., because I think it concerns him. Here the Minister of Industry and Trade said that in the past or the previous period, he presented it to them as Minister of Agriculture, so I would like to know whether the Ministry of Agriculture has calculated this proposal, because it concerns food. And just for your information, roughly the daily turnover of strings when Zbyněk Stanjura here spoke of the fact that it concerns a fine of 1% of turnover, etc., the daily turnover of strings is somewhere around CZK 800 million. Daily turnover. So we really should know how much we're talking about, so I'd like the Minister of Agriculture to explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u17	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, Mrs Balaštíková, also with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u18	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I, through you, Mr President, would like to say to my colleague Stanjur that I have done these economic analyses of the chains. I can tell you that the only thing that is that their sales are falling, but their profits are growing. So I want to ask you who the difference is. They're our suppliers. Our suppliers, who could produce for the Czech Republic, pay taxes here, employ people. And at the end of the day, the consumer paid for it as well. So that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u19	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. And now, with priority rights, Mr František Laudát as Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u20	Thank you. As a man who spends a lot of time here and in other positions, I am confined to large stores and I would like to say to your colleague Balaštíková that from a certain point of time there are obvious signs for the clients of those stores that they have started saving very brutally, and instead of fifty cash registers, four are opened. And I think if we take the price of entry or just the suppliers, it's more like the truth is somewhere else. Unfortunately, I say very badly for employment. However, I am glad that I finally know who was the author of the original law, because before those, I don't know, three years ago, it was still - I know that Mr.Faltýnek was running around the Moravian regions and shouting out what crime we were trying to do towards farmers. I'm convinced of the opposite. Well, at least I know who the source is. But I suppose that in a normally functioning government, the Minister of Finance, economic matters, competition rules, etc. The Minister of Industry and Trade puts forward transport matters. [[16.20 hours]] But of course, the Minister of the Environment Brabec has shown that everyone is universal, understands everything, and then it looks like it. One deputy will send a letter to the CNB saying that they are turning it through the media, so that it will almost cause major economic damage in such a difficult matter as labors and libors. The second deputy, when Mr. Babiš looks at American casinos, he just sends, I don't know, I heard that a draft, not a signed audit, but a draft audit to Brussels, which in the best case, the taxpayers will reach into their pockets and pay for the pleasure of the Deputy Minister, the First Deputy Minister of Finance, and it will cost us 250 miles. Crowns. Why is there really no analysis on the material? I understand that this is an attempt to flick an even more flicked law, which, therefore, we finally know from which ministry and for which minister came. However, really this incompetently suddenly write something... Look, the Prime Minister here mentioned Hungary as to what it looks like. In a few moments, some of the stores will go there, the market will get very poor, and who will pay for it? Of course, at the final stage of the consumer. Maybe you want it to be like real socialism - one side, one supplier, one oligarch. If we look even further east, that may be an ideal for someone, but then we get to the fact that we are going to go back to our fellow citizens, if we can, to the developed countries, and we're going to see how they're doing better there, and they're going to buy a lot more for their wages. However, I say again - I would still understand if the Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek came up with a proper competition law, where it belongs, there they should be balanced, balanced, and very sensitively, the relationship of the supplier, the customer, everything. It's just you guys shooting something. For God's sake, if this government keeps doing it like this, they're gonna start blowing up these mines of dysfunctional things that are gonna cost huge costs, whether citizens or the public budget, but it's the same thing because you're just redistributing citizens' money. You put in material like this, then the material was just as catastrophic as it is today, without a single analysis. Those who had a lot to say about it, the ministries, they weren't there. In that case, perhaps neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Industry and Trade on behalf should have presented it, but he should have given it to the representative of the ÚOHS, where it was also apparently written up. I really don't know, but it was said here by the interpretation of the law that only the UOHS could do it. Well, he can't. Court, that's the only binding thing. If the UOHS is going to do it the way he did it, and then, I think, two or three years ago, he quickly changed his position on the interpretation again, so these are dangerous games that can drag our country into billions of arbitrations. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I'm not defending any strings here, just like I'm not defending a monopoly toast bread supplier. I'm not defending it because it's his business, and it's a sad reality that it got to the point that he's also the vice prime minister of the government and the finance minister and the party chairman, and I don't know what else. That's just evidence of reality. I'm warning you, this isn't really going to work. And then I ask why food is, and why someone doesn't mind big chains selling electronics. After all, there are important matters for life. [[Unintelligible]] when something moved there, and I'm not sure for the better, in the area of natural monopolies such as energy. You know where monopolizing some areas and regions has led the water situation. You're messing with something unqualified here, and I'm very sorry about that. But in the long run, you are doing something that you may not quite imagine. Today, the world is globalised and the region's characteristics, because our republic needs to be considered a region from this point of view, is some 0,15 percent of the world's population, the characteristic and conditions necessary for full involvement and profiting in globalizing society...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u21	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask colleagues who are discussing topics other than the law on great market power, especially that group here at the YES bench to discuss in the foyer. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u22	Thank you. I don't think we've reached a big one yet, significant maybe. So try to put it in a broader political context. In order to benefit our country in all areas, the liberalization of the market, the free movement of labour, the free movement of capital, the free movement of financial transactions are the characteristics of globalisation. And you here, in a desperate attempt at phenomena that you can't control, and those globalization forces will bypass you and, unfortunately, the Czech consumer will take a certain form of the market if you don't close like North Korea or Cuba, so they'll just go around and make it up differently. I'm afraid they've already invented it differently in the first approved form of a law on significant market power. I, like the previous speakers, miss the presence of the Minister of Agriculture. I would really like to see an analysis of what changed after the adoption of this law, whether in favour or not of small suppliers of large chains. Because there were really speculations, some data, but I'm not able to stand up for them with full force, that it actually forced our manufacturers to export these products abroad and then take them from there. This transfer meant that some of the commissions still stopped in the product travel chain. Of course it wasn't at the expense of small suppliers, or I'm not so sure, maybe so, but in any case it was paid by the end customer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u23	I'm gonna ask my colleagues once more for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u24	Mr Vice-President, I was wondering if the Minister of Agriculture had finally arrived to say something about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u25	Of course, I'm not the one who wouldn't want the Minister of Agriculture to be here, but you can, of course, tell him by means of the log.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u26	I understand that the Minister of Agriculture promotes agriculture and various products in advertising for public money, but maybe he would do more for the real benefit of the consumer if he were here and if he were to look after and comment on this law in a qualified manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u27	Thank you. Now another point in fact by Mr Petr Bendl. I would like to inform my colleague Bendl that factual remarks are responding to the debate, not replacing the debate itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u28	I, of course, Mr President, will respond to the debate, because I would like to respond to my dear colleague Balaštíková through you, because the Minister of Agriculture, when we discuss the proposal for a law on agricultural and food products and market power in sales, I will probably not have the answer, or it does not look like I would have seen him tell me what effects he expects, where, which areas it will touch, what jobs it will possibly bring, etc., because I have asked these questions here. [[16.30 hours]] However, I understand from my colleague Balaštíková's reaction that it is as if she is looking at the fact that the foreign chains here have profits at the expense of our vendors. I would just like to remind the Coalition Members that last year we approved the Food Act, which, among other things, should describe what Czech food is. And since to this day we do not have an implementing decree for this law, even though the law is already in effect, we are not able to apply these areas. Although the Minister promises that this may happen by the middle of this year, we have asked him several times. It would be good if you stood up to this at least.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u29	I thank Mr Bendl. Mrs Balaštíková also reports on a factual point. After that, Mr. Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u30	Through you, Mr President, I would just like to clarify to Mr Bendl: this is at the expense of our suppliers, not our sellers, and our consumers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Kořenek, and then with priority rights, the Minister for Agriculture. Mr. Kořenko, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u32	Thank you. So I don't know if I understand this very well, but in this country, it's quite common that big business chains want a so-called postage tax, they just demand payments that basically those small regional suppliers aren't able to fill at all, which is why they create their network of stores, sell food across the street, and so on. That's one thing. The second point concerns maturity dates. I think it's also widely known that they are lending them fairly. I think that law should help us in the first place. I don't know what's going on here. When I listened to my fellow Member for the TOP 09, I felt that there really were people who defended the chains, not the rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u33	Thank you. Before the Minister, with a factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Lobkowicz. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u34	Hello, Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members. I'd like to make just a little comment. I would like to say that a small supplier will never actually get into large chains. He doesn't have the option, because the big chains are demanding that the goods be at the same day in all the stores that offer it to be everywhere. And the little one won't get to that. A small contractor only supplies it to some dealers who then put it in chains. Otherwise, the chains have a lot of power, sometimes they order, they want to browse, they want a big fee, then they take from a small supplier one product, the second they say: your quality has deteriorated, we don't take any more. Then the leafing compensates for the first delivery. There were some companies that made it, but luckily - I know one company specifically, I won't name it, but it's over, and it's in the grave somewhere, and it's not here anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u35	I thank Mr Lobkowicz for his point of view. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. The Minister of Agriculture is already waiting for his speech. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u36	I'm glad, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. I'm serious right now. I have to turn against Mr. Kořenka and what he's saying here. I'm defending some principles here. If anyone's doing business, he's your partner, not mine, not me. I'm not defending anyone. And if I fight property confessions, it's because I protect citizens, not because I'm personally afraid. I'd like somebody here to try to call me this scoundrel, okay? Because they're pushing the public, and the worst bloggers do it on the different Internets that they send -- you're against cashiers, so you support thieves and so on. I know how a market economy works that needs some decoy environment, but what you're doing here is crimes against functioning and prosperity! I'm very much opposed to being pushed around here, that I may be fighting for someone. I'm not fighting for anyone at all. I'm fighting for principles unlike your gang, from you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u37	Thank you. The Minister will wait, because colleague Kořenek is also applying for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u38	Thank you. So I'm going to turn against what's fallen here, too. I don't do thieving, I don't participate in thieving, and I'm asking not to be labeled like that, and not at all partisan. If I knew something like that, it's a notification duty, and I would definitely report it to the police. First of all. And two. Look at what you've done to people who live their normal lives during your reign. The salesmen, the workers, the self-employed and the others. How they lived. What you did to them, what you did to the elderly. So when you're talking about some principles, talk about the principles of humanity and how you behave! And I don't care what interests you defend!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u39	I will, of course, abide by the Rules of Procedure, but there was a call for the Minister of Agriculture, he looks forward to his speech, but unfortunately he will be overtaken by Mr Laudát with a factual remark and Mr Kučera also with a factual remark. Mr Laudát takes it back, Mr Kučera also, so with priority rights first the Minister of Agriculture and then the Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, in this discussion of this amendment to the Act on Major Market Power, I think that anyone who reads the law and who has ever done business, so if he takes it from the logic that everyone in the store behaves fairly and ethically, basically this text of the law can have no problem at all. I've been doing business for eight years. During that time, I traded with farmers and food professionals something for one billion crowns. Yes, from the point of view of retails and chains, it's not much, but I've never acted in such a way as to push whoever sits on the opposite side of the table into an existentially difficult situation. Unfortunately, as I know a lot of real situations, some - I point out some - business chains and some of their people behave this way in some cases. There is simply a need to respond to this in some way, although I am not a fan of regulation, but I think that in exceptional cases, the playground on which the game is played needs to be kept well, to set the lines well and to see if the rules of the game are respected. When we look at the European Union, I will only recall one story. Why has the European Union entered into the regulation of telecommunications and roaming? Because apparently there was some disproportionary position to which small customers were paying off, tiny clients. And, hey, the regulation's been implemented, and everyone's happy. At this point, we are entering an area where it turns out that from the European budget almost 40% of our taxes, we, the citizens of the European Union, are giving money to rural development, agriculture and food industry, then there are large multinational corporations that in some cases, through their behaviour, can take much of the funding from this system back into their sales. And I must say that this debate that we are having here today is not just a question of the Czech Republic, but, in general, most agricultural ministers have opened the debate and the Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Hogan, says yes, and this year we will have to start a debate on how we will proceed to this problem in a pan-European manner. It's not a unique thing we're dealing with here in a little Czech dimple. It is indeed a problem that is troubling us across the European Union. I really say again, whoever reads the bill's proposal and behaves fairly and ethically in the store, then they will have no problem at all in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u41	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. Now two factual points. First, Mr Kalousek, then Mr Stanjura, on a factual note before the Minister's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Through you, Minister Jurečka. With all due respect, Minister, you said: who behaves fairly and ethically can have no problem with this law. You reminded me of Mr. Senator today, formerly Mr. Bublan, who has always defended the incredible amount of wiretapping and privacy in words that behave and do not commit any crimes, he can have no problem with the fact that he is being eavesdropped. That's the same logic. I'd like to call along with Kipling: you are one blood, he and you. Deeply religious socialists. And I'm not going to research whether more in Kristus or socialism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Stanjura, on a point of fact. And then we'll continue. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u44	First to the Minister. I really hate it when we underestimate ourselves and say words like a little Czech dimple. We're sovereign, and I believe that a confident state, and we're no small dime. First of all. Two. You've already marked, you've divided the space into some, I'm saying, you've said some do and their people do it, some strings, but in the same logic are some suppliers who don't supply quality food. That's true. The only thing that bothers me is that you chose a black Petr group that you claim to be the bad guys, but if we take action against them, they're the good guys. The debate has been going on for quite a while, so I have two more questions in the meantime. Now I don't know which minister doesn't really care. I know it's 5 billion. it was already in the original draft law of 2009. I wonder what it's coming from. Why it's not six billion. or 4 billion. I just don't know. There's a number in the law 5 billion, we don't know. One thing is quite likable there, I mean, few people - regulation due to invoices 30 days. [[unintelligible]] If I ignore the fact that we are circumventing contractual freedom, and many of the other disciplines will tell you that larger companies will not come to you for 30 days. Very often small companies hear: We pay twice a month, well it's bad luck that you have the tenth day on the 30th, but we only pay on the 18th, we have internal rules. They provide very detailed payment terms for each order. No one's talking to them. And that 30 days will only apply to food suppliers in chains, or to all other suppliers? Then why isn't it a universal principle? As long as we don't want to give up our contractual freedom. And I understand that. When someone has 90, 120, 150 due days, de facto borrows money from someone else -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u45	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u46	Thank you, I'm sorry. I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u47	It's your application, please. Now, Mr Urban's factual remark, then perhaps we will get to a normal debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think there is no doubt that chains behave differently in the Czech Republic than where they have their headquarters and mothers. The question is why. That's one thing. It's just obvious that they have other relationships with customers and suppliers here. It is also obvious that foreign and Czech manure is being sold to consumers here from time to time, and in those mothers they would not dare. We should try to answer the question of why this is happening. In any case, trying to somehow regulate this non-standard behavior by some law is correct. That it hasn't led to a complete result so far, it's probably a clear comparison from the point of view of price and quality. If you buy some of the same goods today in a country other than the Czech Republic, Germany or France, you'll find that it's a different quality and the same goods, with them saying that we have different tastes than the Němec or the Francouz, so that they have to do it according to the Czech customer. But it's even cheaper sometimes in France and Germany. Well, I don't know where there's a vicious circle to chop it up. Anyway, the law trial, maybe trying to be futile again, but at least it's something. And so if we let it go, it's going to take a lot longer in my opinion. Non-standard behaviour towards suppliers, towards citizens, towards customers, and I'm not sure we can -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u49	Mr. Ambassador, you've also finished your time on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u50	If we can afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u51	Please do not replace your speeches with factual remarks. Even now, the factual remark made by President Stanjura, then by Mr Balaštíková and then by Mr Petr Bendl, who has applied properly. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u52	A really factual comment about my honored colleague Milan Urban's performance. Mr Vice-President, when you spoke of poor quality and what they are offering, it is not the question of the customers to whom this law is aimed, but the suppliers. So we should not add the sins of the suppliers to the sins of the customers. It's not that they don't exist on either side, it certainly does. I'm just saying it's too one-sided that the government has chosen one goal. And you blame the poor quality of the products, but those are the suppliers you want to protect with this bill. As we increase the quality of the products that bad suppliers, some need to say, not by far all of them you talked about, and you were right about a lot, and I agree with you, and I don't believe in any specific Czech taste that anyone cheats the percentage of meat or cocoa and says, you're used to it. Well, maybe the Communists gave it to us, but I don't want to get used to it. But the law isn't aimed at the supplier, it's aimed at the customer. And since I still have 50 seconds, I'll set up what I didn't make before. If someone's negotiating 120, 150, 180 days of maturity, they're really gonna roll the price of the money over to the supplier, and I don't like that. And very often it's towards the small ones. When we call ourselves the construction sector and you look at, I'd say, justified by the plight of medium and small companies, they say that their sub-contracts are paying terribly late. It's risky for them. The bigger one is even more financially powerful and can afford it, but it is at the expense of paying late for the small one. If we want to enforce 30 days of payment of invoices and we want to limit influence, please, but to everyone and in all fields, not to the selected group. Even a select group of suppliers in one chain. There's no logic to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u53	Thank you. Colleague Urban also reports on one more point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u54	Perhaps to supplement why I said it together. Because quality and relation to suppliers and consumers, because suppliers say: Chains are skinning us, so we have to go down with costs and thus suffer quality. So we have to deliver to the chains because we want to, but unfortunately less quality goods, because they want the flip-flop fees and the credit etc. etc., which may be right. However, on the other hand, the price does not fall to the customer. The price is higher than elsewhere, although quality is getting worse. I think they're connected containers. This bill says: there is some regulation of relations between suppliers and the chain. So if they pay, I would expect suppliers not to be able to make excuses for supplying poor-quality goods because they are skinned by strings. I think it's some kind of step, at least half a step towards it being for the benefit of the customer. We can't expect them to suddenly say to each other at the chain headquarters: that's not what we do for money, but we do it out of love and solidarity, so we will think about the fees and credit in the Czech Republic. That's not gonna happen. There must be some pressure. I think the pressure of the law, but, of course, the pressure of the customers would be better. Customer pressure on quality, respectively. Where they don't like it, don't let them buy it. That's what I want most. But I must say, after 10 years or 20 years, this principle has not yet worked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u55	Thank you for keeping time. And now with priority rights also Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. After that, they'll be on the list of proper applications. I'm also registering Mr. Herbert Pavera's application, but he put it from a place, not electronically, and electronics comes first. So it will be Mrs Balaštíková, a colleague of Bendl and then a colleague of Pavera. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that when this debate began, I did not know whether it was really true that I was competently in charge of competition law and that I should submit this law, because I was preparing for the following three laws today, i.e. regulation of advertising, bottom of the sea and pyrotechnics, which clearly belongs to me. This law was to be passed by the Prime Minister or presented by the Prime Minister. Indeed, the UOHS does not belong to the competence of the Minister of Industry and Trade, not even as so-called. a small ministry or an independent office. If it was the Mining Authority or if it was the Energy Regulatory Authority or if it was the Czech Television, I would, of course, come here with the material and present it because it is my responsibility under Act 269 on Competences. So it is absolutely right that the Prime Minister presented this because the Prime Minister is subject to the ÚOHS and through it the ÚOHS enters the government, because the President of the ÚOHS is not a member of the government. That's one thing I'd like to say. Then some questions and debates here. I do not understand some comments that we are to resign to any attempt to do something with a clearly unsatisfactory situation that is in the Czech market environment. Of course, those firms are facing problems of risking their invoices not being paid in time, that it won't be 30 days, that it will be much longer. Unlike a strong partner, they won't last that many days, and it can actually endanger them. That they're in a disadvantageous situation when the big company tells them they've failed and gone through the warranty period, take it back, so there's nothing they can do about it. Historically, this is also due to the fact that, unlike other countries facing similar problems, those countries either usually have one or more national chains competing with those multinationals. In addition, there are producer organisations that provide sales. So if he doesn't get into those multinational chains, there are alternatives. Of course, I completely understand a number of these remarks that it is difficult to achieve something by amending the law, because on the other hand, he is a very competent opponent who is able to pay very expensive lawyers, break the argument and the result is not present. We're talking about this here because the results so far aren't entirely satisfactory. This tool in the hands of the UOHS is not sufficient and we are trying to improve this. I would understand the debate on how to make this law more effective, but I do not understand a debate that calls into question the need at all. Debata will certainly not be helped by saying that we have a choice between North Korea or an ideal market economy. Of course, we are in a market economy. We are part of the EU, the European Economic Area, where there is largely free competition, but it is never completely free, there are always obstacles, there are always some inequalities with which we should do something. I mean, the chain, and it's probably the cleanest in the grocery store -- there's some farmer that grows, keeps the raw material, then the processing industry, and then somebody sells it. This activity generates some profit, yes. But it's not quite clear how much the farmer gets, how much the processor gets, and how much the one who makes the final sale gets. And that, of course, is the fight in the market economy, which is how much involved in the profit. After all, it is entirely legitimate to demand that the distribution of profits be fair, as far as possible, so that even those who are at the beginning of the chain, either the farmers or the manufacturing industry, also contribute to the final profit. So I would expect criticism, but a criticism positive that it would be said that this is not the way, but we have to go about it in some other way that will lead to the desired effect. Of course, the idea that it might be outside of agriculture is entirely legitimate outside the food industry. However, this began in agriculture, as I have already said here. I presented it eight years ago as Minister of Agriculture. It has begun in this area and there is no reason not to try it in this area, because it is the cleanest in this area. There's one more thing I'd like to add next to all the warranty issues, not paying the bills. There's a huge problem with information asymmetry. Those big companies know, the high-school ones and the little ones don't often know. They do not have enough qualified people at their disposal to compete in this competition, which is not only about how they produce a quality product, but also what place in the market they will fight in the legal system or, for example, by lobbying in Parliament so that the laws will suit them more. So, for all these reasons, I think it makes sense to bring this law forward. It is legitimate to discuss what we will do about it, and it is even legitimate to impose fines. I'd even answer the question about the percentage. Yes, some of the subjects involved have 30 to 45 billion turnover, so of course we're talking about 300 million to 450 million. But this rate is not expected and, of course, there would be a review as in all other cases, because those companies almost always appeal. I don't know if I answered all the questions, but at least some of them will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u57	Thank you, Minister Jan Mládek. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek and then the debate. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u58	Thank you. Forgive me, Minister, but some arguments are really breathtaking. You're saying that in agriculture, the chain's pretty clear, somebody's gonna grow it, somebody's gonna process it, somebody's gonna sell it. Could you please give me some sort of field with some kind of final product where it's different? Someone's gonna make iron ingots, somebody's gonna roll a plate, somebody's gonna make a body for a car, and then the dealers are gonna sell it. I'm not gonna bother any other field, but I can hardly imagine where it is, unless we're selling raw materials. Where there's a final product, it's always like that. Interestingly, from time to time, the socialists are harassing this idea exclusively in the food product chain and nowhere else. Although it's the same everywhere else. Mr Urban says, and he seems to be serious about wanting the pressure of those customers. But that obviously doesn't work. Customers are obviously incompetent. We know what's good for customers, so we'll do it for them! Do you really believe what you're saying here, or are you serving just one narrow specific lobby?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Now, then, Mrs Balaštíková. But the priority right is for the rapporteur, or the rapporteur, that is to say, he is in the debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u60	Thank you for the floor. I, outside of my role as rapporteur, must respond, please. For those who -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u61	You shouldn't have said that, rapporteur, because I would have to take your word away. If you want to speak as a rapporteur, of course you can speak at any time. But in that regard... [[Ambassador Velebný returns to the post of rapporteur.]] Then in the proper debate, please, rapporteur. My colleague Balaštíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u62	Let's do it again. I did not expect any material to be provided to Members, and I tried to secure the materials from publicly available sources. I have had a report from the European Commission that tells us that unfair commercial practices can have harmful effects on large enterprises currently stagnating, but especially on small and medium-sized enterprises within the food chain today. They affect their ability to survive on the market, to realise new financial investments and technologies and to develop in cross-border market activities. [[unintelligible]] I can tell you through Mr President, my colleague, that if you want to get into chains as a child, it is equally devastating for you, because the fees you pay for this cannot be borne by your medium-sized enterprise. The big ones can't take it anymore. That's the way it is! And the devastation of the small and medium-sized business is that there's really too many chains. Yes, we learned from two-day shopping to make fourteen-day and three-week shopping, that's true. But let's see how many small businessmen, small stores, who could take from our small manufacturers and suppliers, as a colleague of the TOP 09. That's just the way it is! I worked in the food chain, so I know how it was. They're right strings, there were queues, it was horrible, there weren't some kinds of goods, but maybe we had better quality here! [[17,00 hours]] When we ask how the quality is not here - it is not here because if the chain forces the supplier to make salami for 70 crowns, it may be hard to have meat in it. And we don't want to hear it. We're just going on about something, and we don't want to know where the buried dog is. The fact that the European Commission is still concerned that a lot of Member States have taken a position on this and have also reduced significant market power is merely proof that the chains have, once again, learned to circumvent their laws in some way, and they are also making adjustments. Furthermore, the report from the European Commission is that it still leaves to the Member States, as it adjusts the internal market. The fact that the law is being amended is of course the question again because the chains of each other have really learned to abuse their power again and do things that just devastate our economy! And they destroy the small, medium, and the big ones. And we have to wonder if there's really any way to figure out if some of the chains are going to leave here, if the new middle, small stores don't tighten up and employ a larger number of people, and then their tax liability isn't going to be bigger in our state register. I don't have that kind of analysis. Of course, this would require the long-term economic work of qualified experts, which I am not. The fact that I've downloaded tax returns from available sources and the results of these supermarkets, I can tell you -- yes, they're right that their turnovers are falling. But their profits are still growing. I already told you where it comes from, who pays for it. They pay you our Czech suppliers. And if the money really stayed with them, maybe they'd have it to develop, maybe we'd have our chains here the way we need it in Slovenia. The only chain that stood up to this is the Coop Market, and it offers small and medium to go into their market network. Why aren't the others doing this? I have dealt with the agricultural committee with the chain and asked them: Why don't you take a significant step towards our suppliers? Maybe our government will start to deal with the fact that this law on significant market power isn't like that and it's good for you, too, but you haven't taken that step yet. And I'm asking you, if you're all so interested, all right, come to the chain meeting, and please get to know the materials of how they treat our suppliers! Big and small. Even the little ones would like to be there. How is it possible that one Coop Market cooperative here is going to be able to put those small and medium-sized ones into that network? But they're also unable to pay the fees that are there. That's not what we're talking about! No supplier wants to go up against the strings! And I don't blame him. Because the first thing he'd expect to get out of that supermarket!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u63	Thank you, Mrs Balaštíková. I have two factual points - Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Laudát. It's a real point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u64	Thank you for your word. I'm here with interest to hear the emotional performance of my previous speaker. I would like to tell her, through Mr President, that while the profits are falling to those small and medium-sized enterprises, as my colleague said, and Agroferta, the profits are growing. There's one thing I'm interested in in this discussion. Here we are constantly talking about the agricultural and food products and how difficult it is to get into those networks and to be left out, etc. But this isn't just about agricultural and food products. It's not just small food producers, small farmers. Before the same problem are built producers of electrical appliances, manufacturers of industrial goods, manufacturers of gardening goods. They have the same problems when we compare it with this optics, like farmers or food manufacturers. Many small companies ended up in industrial goods with regard to the production of electrical appliances. It's just the world of globalization we live in today. And if we want to protect this one segment, I would ask the previous speaker through Mr President: How do you want to protect these other segments? How does he want to protect the electrical appliance manufacturer? In what way does he want to protect the manufacturers of industrial goods who supply to garden markets that supply to electric markets? They face the same problem as agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u65	I thank Mr Kučer for his time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u66	Thank you. I didn't want to do this anymore. However, when I listened to Mrs. Balaštíková, I must say, who destroys small and medium-sized businesses here? It's you, it's your government. What laws have you voted on here? Today, for example. they were declaring a crime when someone started preparing an alleged crime. [[The noise in the hall.]] And an explanation of how you start preparing it. You're the one who prepares the register cashiers, which you can handle at least when we copy the experience from other countries, 10 percent of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs! Here sits the author of the statement that small businessmen are parasites. So what are you guys talking about? You do one... The tragedy is that so far you have been very successful in lying to the nation, that you are actually a center-right or right-wing government. I'm really starting to have a stomach problem over your behavior. But you're doing the exact opposite here. You have arranged innovation, a business environment to make our companies competitive, by brutally taxing regulated funds, which is almost unprecedented in the world. You've kept your mouth shut! If you knew anything about this, you would know that 80 percent of innovation is not in the public sector, but in the private sector. That's how you underlined it and dealt with it. So what on earth are you guys talking about?!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u67	I thank Mr Laudat for his time. A factual remark by Mrs Balaštíková, who will respond to the speech of her colleague. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u68	My colleague Laudát's performance. I can't answer all his questions, because I'm not a bug Pytlík. I've never played it and I'm not playing it. I'll only answer you for what I specialize in. Sorry. Another colleague - how I want to protect the small electric manufacturer and these. Please, significant market power isn't about this. Look, we've been wiped out by online stores!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u69	Thank you. Now, with proper application, Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. You already have a proper application, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear remaining ministers - Minister, Madam Secretary - can see how important this law is when we don't even have ministers here that are directly concerned. [[to Minister Mládek]] [[to the Minister of Nobleness]] By this I again refer to the Minister of Agriculture who came in, did not answer the questions, said that it was necessary to set the lines where it would be fair, and left again, given that he had been a businessman for eight years, etc. I want to point out here that, in order to safeguard the monopoly position on the market, we have an anti-monopoly office. For this, we have a competent authority to act in the event of any injustice or abuse of a dominant position on the market. If there's something wrong, let's fix it and use this institution. To keep an eye on the quality of the food that everyone here is referring to, we have a State Agricultural and Food Inspection. And if there's something wrong with the market, then let's talk to the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, what's wrong there, or the hygiene or other control bodies that we have here, often unnecessary. And let's talk about what we can do to improve the quality environment. But what's being proposed here has already been said here. To enter into a relationship that is between the manufacturer, the processor, the supplier and the seller, where we have the right as a state to enter somewhere between these entities and we're going to say, no, look, this is no longer fair, here's the profit that could happen to go abroad... Please don't do this anymore. We have a law on that. And some clerk here is gonna say what's or isn't needed. So one of the proposals you're making here is that there's going to be a 30-day maturity of invoices. I note that the state itself, if you want to do something about it, does not comply with this rule. And that's easy, we don't need the law for that. In the Central Bohemia Region, we have a regional office that has an invoice maturity of approximately half a billion for 24 months. That's just so we know. So if you will, let the state act in this regard, let it pay within thirty days. [[17.10 hours]] Otherwise, I am convinced that if you put some obligations on those vendors relating to the supplier's relationship - I note that the Czech supplier, I do not know what the term is. Our Minister of Agriculture can't write, nor what Czech food is, let alone know what a Czech supplier is. Because he hasn't and hasn't been able to answer that here. I asked him here, you didn't hear the answer to why he didn't, why he didn't do it, why we didn't have it. Dozens of millions spent on the promotion of so-called regional food, but we do not have a characteristic of what Czech food is, our Minister does not know. But to spend tens of millions of crowns on self-representation, he's excellent at that. Except, unfortunately, it kind of misses the point. If he's gonna sit somewhere and really work and explain what this law is really useful for, he can't answer that. And I'm not surprised he can't answer that. Because the law is really useless. What should we do to make sure that the Czech manufacturer, if you like, has a better chance on the market and is more caught not only by chains, but also by small shops and so on? Let's do everything we can to support food production! But last time, you almost hit the table here for wanting the rape! How amazing! Less rape, friends, and more fodder wheat! But you want the rape! The Minister of Agriculture here says: This is the amazing crop that will save our Czech agriculture! That's what happened last time. Instead of discussing how to support food production of Czech agriculture. By the way, Czech agriculture, however difficult it is, so it has relatively, I'll say, significant or every year increasing profits. And by the way, it's because this is what's started in the past. Support for farmers, farming, regional products - but not by the self-representation of ministers, but by concrete steps. By preparing, for example, the Food Act, which was prepared by previous governments. But to complete the decree, well, that's a disaster, we can't do that, but unfortunately, the Minister just can't handle it. Less bureaucracy! We've talked about this a lot. The Minister hasn't done anything for it yet. Nothing at all! He does not know how to draw European money yet; he does not have clear rules for it. He says they might be next fall. Well, let's hope so! There's a dog in there somewhere, not that we're gonna have a law that brings more bureaucracy, and in the finals, it's gonna go against the ones you're lobbying for today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u71	I thank Mr Bendl. And to be clear, we have Mr Urban's factual remark, two priority rights - Mr Kováčik and the Minister for Agriculture. And then Mr. Pavera and Mr. Velebný's application. Now, Mr Urban, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u72	First of all, no one here has answered why worse goods are being sold in the Czech Republic for more money than in Germany or France. I don't say everything, but there's quite a lot of stuff in the food business. Well, try to answer that! If we answer that question, maybe we can move on better. I don't give a damn what the dealer's name is or what the supplier's name is, but I can hardly accept what the President of the Kalousek MP said at one point in the sense that people are incompetent and that I am based on it. And that there's no need for anything. Well, if so, why do we have standards? Technical standards. Why do we have food standards? If it were as simple as Mr Kalousek says, we would not have to have an environmental inspection, or a food inspection, a pardon to guard the standards. If it was that simple, everyone would say, bite it and say, "Damn it, it's ugly, I'm not eating it." And next time I won't buy it. But sometimes it's hard to tell at first sight. That's why we need the standards. Those chains may also not be able to tell at first sight that they want to rob Czech citizens in the Czech Republic because they behave differently than they do in countries where they have their mothers. Then we have to tell them in some way! And how are we supposed to tell them this better than pushing them down maybe by some law? I don't think there's any other way. Twenty-two years have shown that market mechanisms have not solved this situation, where worse goods are sold in the Czech Republic for more money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u73	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. I ask everyone to respect the principle of factual comment, which means a reaction to the performance. I shall ask the same of my colleague Kalousek, who has made a point of fact, about the response of Mr Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u74	Thank you. I can't do anything else! I didn't say people were incompetent. I said that's exactly what Mr Urban says. He says I'm still waiting for the pressure of the customers to adjust it, and he's probably not adjusting it, so we have to do it for those incompetent people. But are we really here to do this? I have nothing against standards, I'm the last person to want to disturb the inspectors of these standards, whether it's food or agricultural inspection or hygiene. But just walk into free contractual relationships and think I'm gonna make a difference? Where the real master is the market and the customer and the customer? Why in some Czech stores food goods are poor quality and more expensive than elsewhere, don't ask it here, you will probably have to go to Kostelecké kaziny. I also don't understand how anyone can swallow it and pay the money for it, for these products. I don't understand, but I'm not gonna order or regulate those customers not to buy it! If they want to buy it, let them buy it! He'll ruin his stomach, not mine!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u75	I thank Mr Bendl. [[But the MP Kalousek spoke.]] And to calm the situation before I give the right to a factual remark to Mr Bendl, I quote the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The first is Mr Holeček, who apologizes from 16.15 to 23.59 hours. A colleague of Beznoska from 6:30 p.m. for work reasons. Mr President of the Committee on Health Vyzula apologizes from 17.45 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Novotný from 18 a.m. and tomorrow from 10 a.m. Mr Bendl has the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u76	Only in response to our esteemed colleague Milan Urban. Why is it that in Germany people buy the quality goods and the like? Recently, I was in a small village in Germany where people alone from no one but a local peasant would buy milk. He can't possibly buy meat, bread or anything from anyone other than a local peasant. But unfortunately, we're doing everything in our power to complicate the situation with different bureaucracies, that we don't have it in the end, and the result is that we're arguing about something that's really physically useless here. Let's talk about how we can help food farming in primary production. Let's talk about less rape and more support for food production. And then the market will take care of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u77	I thank Mr Bendl. Now the privilege of law: President of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik, then Minister of Agriculture. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to add my attention to the current debate between my honored colleague, Bendl, and the local electronic manufacturer, he will buy a fridge, a TV, a cell phone and so on and so forth. So when we're talking about why it's just food and not electronics or any other industrial goods that the chains offer. Well, precisely because the food industry, in turn, agriculture is a particular business, whether or not anyone likes it, because it has two, let's say, adverse properties that distinguish them from other normal businesses, and that is a huge need for capital for a very minimal return, firstly, and secondly, it is open-air. This means that no other business is so much affected by weather effects, i.e. by weather, if you want the mother of nature or by god, as you see it, as it is agriculture and food industry. But it's just a little plug to get me to the debate. [[17.20 hours]] I remember that since 1997, there have been attempts in this House with more or less iron regularity to make sure that since these chains have come here to behave at least as politely, there are guests here and they have us here to behave at least as politely as at home, in the countries of origin. And once again to the margo of the ongoing discussion. If it were as unacceptable in the Czech Republic to offer other goods than Czech in the chain, as it is in Germany, for example, as it is in France. Try to buy Czech goods in the chain in Austria as well as here. You can't get them in there. And they don't care if they want to sharpen the market, as we say yes, let's regulate. Yes, regulate, my friends. Let's regulate the mandatory percentage of Czech, Moravian and Silesian goods in chains - 60 %, 70 %, 80 %, not everything to make it possible for a citizen to sharpen the offer. You know, with us, it's the other way around. Somewhere only 20, 30 percent of Czech goods and other Europe supplies us with its yogurt, it provides us with maintenance of its landscape, i.e. we pay in yogurt maintenance of their landscape, we pay their wages to primary producers and processors, and even, as has been mentioned more times, the same goods have in our shops, i.e. in stores that are in the Czech Republic, somewhat different when I say this very gently, quality than in the country where the mother is, with an indication that Czech, Moravian and Silesian taste is different. Maybe worse or maybe a pocket worse. Oh, no, the goods are just as expensive or more expensive, the price is the same. It would not be necessary for such a law to be followed if it were unacceptable for us, too, that an excess of goods should be offered on the Czech territory, whether it is from Germany, France, Poland or from anywhere else. It would not have been necessary for such a law if the pious idol of the free market actually worked, i.e. excuse, free market, on the basis of equal terms, equal approaches, such as equal subsidies, for example, if it had not mattered that in the French trade of the same chain, in the German trade of the same chain, in the Czech, Slovak or Polish trade of the same chain, the exact same conditions are for both the customer and suppliers. But unfortunately, try to load a truck, for example, of cheese or other dairy products and sell them into the same chain in Germany or anywhere else where the mothers are located. You ask the bad guys. Don't make a deal or they won't discuss the contract with you. The van is only possible on limited terms and only under humiliating conditions. And if it weren't for such humiliating conditions, we wouldn't have had to deal with such a law - and since 1997, it's been many years - here. We want nothing more than for all Europeans, including Czech, Moravian and Silesian suppliers to have equal conditions within the single European market and Czech, Moravian and Silesian customers to have equal access to quality. A customer in Germany does not buy goods other than German and considers it natural. I wish we could raise a customer in the Czech Republic for the same thing. It is gradually succeeding, some programs were successful, for example the familiarity that when I buy a product with the KLASA brand, I buy a quality product, usually, so it is very high, the program was successful and it needs to be further developed, because these are the gradual steps. But as long as this is not the case, as long as the events are: Dear Suppliers, our chain will celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Czech Republic's presence, it will cost you so much and so many tens of thousands of birthday gifts, on sale, on delivery. If there weren't a variety of corner back margins outside the contract, if I wanted to keep myself as a supplier in that chain, I still have to pay other discounts on the price, pay the shelves differently, and I don't know what else I can do, bear the cost of the events and uncollected goods that the chain has already bought from me, i.e. took away before it paid. Transfer of goods after the expiry of the minimum durability period without entitlement to a refund. If such humiliating treatment does not exist, then we ourselves will be happy that there will be less bureaucracy, less paperwork, less control that it will flow on the basis of how the free market should behave. But unfortunately. If this free market existed, it would be absolutely ideal, there would be no need. Because he never existed, he doesn't exist. There was a need for regulation at first. And let us remember that if we continue to apply this adequate regulation, which will correct the imbalance wisely, it will be in favour of the Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmer, the Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmer of agricultural products and, after all, our consumer, whom many, whether from the right or from the left, will be so happy to cast away, who will be sure that due to the price pressures on the supplier will not have to eat only a sausage similar, under the name of the beer to drink the liquid only similar and other atrocities that are unfortunately happening. Let's not blame the contractor. The supplier is in a disadvantaged position, and if he wants to survive, he must approach these humiliating conditions. Let's do everything we can to avoid having to, according to the principle, be a master, you a master, to consume, buy and like to consume Czech, Moravian and Silesian food in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u79	I thank President Pavel Kováčik for his speech and allow me to do so, because in three minutes we will have to interrupt this point in order to state that I have five factual points before me, one priority right of the Minister and two proper applications, that is Mr Pavera and rapporteur Velebný. Now, therefore, Mr Laudát's factual remark, then Mr Kalousek, if it is time for him by 17.30. That depends on my colleague Laudát, how long he will have a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u80	Thank you. I'll just respond to Mrs. Balaštíková. Although we may not like it, or may like it, the young generation likes it and most companies that can buy products over the Internet, which is a huge handicap and the end for standard classic shops. You're going to do about as much with the fact that in the last ten years, it's turned into top rankings today, because top lists of professions are being compiled, so ten years ago, there wasn't one of the first six. The world's going somewhere else, and it's changing significantly. I'm sure we should put it here as a point, but since whatever we're proposing here from the opposition, how we're losing, where we're losing, but you always say no, because you're moving the Republic somewhere else. That's one. It is unclear to me why this law, which was produced at the IHOS, does not need to regulate the relationship between the first producer and the one who buys out. Why are you just attacking one segment, just like you're attacking that you're restricting sales time in stores over a certain area. It's the same thing. Somebody slaps something without knowing the convention. And we're not asking for anything other than when you go into a sensitive area like market regulation, so that you should give detailed analysis, it should be what the situation is, including numbers, graphs, facts. But there's really always somebody making something, even somebody on your side is gonna make a bill for a lobby, he's gonna go, and he's gonna bring it up here. That's really great! So I think we should reject this attempt, and if you do, then come up with a good draft, guaranteed, supported by analysis, but you're really gambling this. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u81	Your time for a point of fact is over, Mr. Ambassador. Because it would be undignified for me to continue when we have to start another point at 5:30, point 28, so I interrupt point 22, the Government's proposal for a law on significant market power No. 395/2009 Sb. with the fact that we will continue when it is decided on its inclusion, namely by the factual remarks of Miroslav Kalousek, Michal Kučera, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Pilný, the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, and duly signed up for the debate are Herbert Pavera and Ladislav Velebný. I'm interrupting this item and handing over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-015-022.u82	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, next item, firmly placed at 17.30, is
