ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-001-141.u1	141. The draft law amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Environmental Impact Assessment Act), as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Press 299/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with its amendments. We received his resolution as a press of 299.9. I welcome Senator Šilar here, and I ask that Mr Richard Brabec, on behalf of the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled, be heard by the Minister of the Environment. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-001-141.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. I'm sure the rapporteur from the Senate will fill me in. I will say that, within the committees and then in the plenary, the Senate's amendment to the Act on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendments to Some Related Acts was discussed very intensively in several committees, subsequently in plenary in the Senate and was therefore returned to the House with two amendments. One concerns the suspensive effect, which, as you know, we have already spoken intensively not only in the House Committees but also here in plenary. The second amendment concerns the entry into force of the Act, which was actually postponed from a fixed date on 1 March 2015 to the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication. I would like to say that both of these amendments are supported by the Ministry of the Environment as a petitioner and that, above all, in the first amendment, which concerns the suspensive effect of the actions, we have, of course, also communicated with the European Commission and it has told us that it agrees with this proposal. This means that I am pleased to say that the version that has been returned to us by the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies is acceptable to us as a petitioner and I can recommend its adoption by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-001-141.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask whether one of the rapporteurs, either Mr Kučera, or Mr Petrů, or Mr Zahradník, wishes to comment on the Senate resolution. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening up a debate. First I give the floor to the senator. Please. This is the report of Mr. Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-001-141.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I would just like to take your attention briefly with the amendment to Act No. 100/2001 Coll., so-called. EIA. I would read the resolutions we adopted and then explain the slight change. In Article 1, paragraph 9 (d) (i) is replaced by the following: We propose to amend the text as follows: the action against decisions taken in subsequent proceedings shall be decided by the court within 90 days after the action has been brought before the court. The Court of First Instance shall decide, even without a proposal, whether to grant suspensory effect to the action or to take interim measures under the Administrative Rules of Procedure. The Court of First Instance shall grant a suspensory effect to the action or order interim measures where there is a risk that serious environmental damage may be caused by the implementation of the project. In the original version, what was there was immediately, in the sentence that the court would immediately accept the suspensive effect. This is a minor change which, in our opinion, I think even the opinion of the petitioner improves this text at this point in order to protect ourselves more against what we said in the Senate, such bullying lawsuits, and where we could better apply the possibility for civil associations to bring matters before the court. And the second article that has already been mentioned here is the question of effectiveness that this law takes effect on the first day of the calendar month following the day of its publication. Not as the fixed date had previously been set. Thank you. I think that is enough, because it has just been very carefully discussed many times. I think this is a very reasonable proposal that could improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-001-141.u5	Thank you, Mr. Senator. Mr. Zahradník, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-001-141.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the proposal that has been returned to the Senate here, as amended by the amendment. I have spoken to this law both at the committee's meetings and at the House's meetings repeatedly, and I have put forward reasons why this proposal is wrong, why it can block the course of important investments in the near future with us, why it reduces our competitiveness and why it significantly increases the already strong position of environmental organisations in our system. I waited for the Senate to negotiate this law, and I was glad that the Senate took it with great interest. I watched him express himself on individual problematic provisions. I must say that the proposal put forward by the Senator as rapporteur from the Senate is, to some extent, improving the proposal, a little bit, but still improving it. It's not enough, but it's something. The Court of First Instance will have to decide whether or not to grant a suspensory effect to the action in question in the subsequent proceedings. Well, we know that's a pretty big deal. Follow-up management, territorial management, construction, which is a procedure in which an investor spends considerable funds, and any suspensive effect put into that process can mean a financial loss. But what worries me very much and what the Senate is doing, even though I know that he has discussed it, but what he has not dealt with is a very strong position of what the law calls the public concerned. The Civil Democratic Party is in principle in favour of people involved in the process of discussing the investment being allowed to speak to it. So that they can interfere with it so that the public concerned can have all the rights that belong to it. We believe that people who live in a place where the interest concerned is to be realized, who live there, who will be affected, and not people who, out of some belief, mostly ideologically, people who do not have a direct personal relationship with the territory could have caused the process to be suspended. We tabled an amendment in that sense so that both those concerned who have more than three years of history and those who are equipped with two hundred signatures would have to prove a certain local jurisdiction. At the time, my proposal was such that at least 50 signatures had to be signatures of people who were resident, permanent residence in that territory. The Ministry has expressed a negative view of this, demonstrating its position with the principles of European law. No one must be reduced to exercising his rights to protest against something of his place of residence. And even the House, in truth, decided by its majority of your votes that these proposals were rejected. [[14.50 hours]] However, I think that this law, as it is presented, gives environmental organisations, activists who work in them enormous powers and does not require any responsibility from them. I don't think she's okay. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I have recommended that my colleagues from the ODS Club have a negative voice when voting on the Senate proposal. Another reason why I did this is that there is still some retroactivity in the proposal, so we will be going back to the EIA's ongoing proceedings and discussing them under this law. I am concerned that this proposal would significantly interfere with the process of implementing important infrastructure structures in our country, thereby reducing the competitiveness of our Republic. Therefore, allow me to comment negatively on this proposal. And I also recommended this to my colleagues from ODS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-001-141.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. I don't have any more applications, so I'm done with the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. Yes, I'll check you all out, and I'm asking for a new registration. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws, pursuant to the House's Press 299/8, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House's Press 299/9. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting 83, registered is 168, for 104, versus 30. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. I'm done with this point. I thank the senator and the minister, of course. Opening point
