ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 407/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u2	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u3	I am very sorry, Madam Secretary, but I will ask my colleagues in particular in the left side of the hall to keep their voice down so that the Minister does not have to scream so that we can hear it enough. Thank you for understanding. Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u4	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present the Government's proposal for a law on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. It is a tender amendment, however, very necessary and expected pedagogical workers in practice to ensure that the nesvar ends, when some founders conclude contracts with educators only for a period of ten months and then our teachers are forced to remain in employment offices during July and August. This undignified practice is addressed by this government bill. In the future, a period of time agreed with pedagogical staff would be at least 12 months and could be repeated not more than twice from the date of the first employment. This means that it will basically unite with the code of work with the speciality, that the duration of the fixed-term ratio will be determined by the twelve months in order to rule out such defective practice in the future. Madam President, honourable Members, I believe that in view of the fact that we are at second reading, this brief information and reminder from the point of view of the content of the government proposal presented is sufficient, and I will, of course, look forward to further discussions within the guarantee committee if you release this government bill by second reading, which I would like to ask you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u5	Thank you. Now I'm going to ask my colleagues in the right side of the hall to keep their voice down, or possibly to discuss the following program out of the hall. Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 407/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Nina Nováková, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I can only say that, as we talked about the amendment to the law on pedagogical workers at first reading, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports adopted a resolution recommending the approval of the Government's draft law and commissioned me to introduce you to this resolution. At the time the guarantee committee discussed this, there were no amendments to the resolution because they were not known. I will then take the liberty of expressing my opinion on one amendment in general and in a detailed debate. But now in that first stage, at its 14th meeting, the guarantee committee adopted a resolution that he recommended that we agree with the government's bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u7	Thank you, Madame. I open a general debate and ask the lady to stay with the microphone and take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have noticed several times recently that a law had been opened and that the law had to be opened several times during the year. I have therefore taken the liberty of proposing one amendment to you when we are discussing an amendment to the Education Worker Act. We have discovered such an oversight - I assume that from the point of view of the Ministry of Education it is indeed an oversight or rather an incomplete negotiation. Since there are universities that prepare qualified teaching staff in a Master's degree, yet their employers cannot find them in the law on teaching workers. They're art-pedagogical. I have spoken about this with some of the staff at the Ministry of Education and it really seems that it has not been possible to complete a certain process. So I believe that if it were needed in the Guarantee Committee, or if we were still working on it before the third reading, I believe that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports would, in principle, have nothing against my amendment. What's going on? We are used to seeing the whole spectrum of schools from kindergartens to higher vocational schools, and central schools and higher vocational schools only concern some, so we are used to hearing that there is some aesthetic education or some artistic education, but as we ourselves know from schools, aesthetic education is music or art, or music education or art. There has been a very well-developed field in universities, at the Academy of Performing Arts and Janáček Academy of Performing Arts, since the mid-1990s, and especially the field that our schools need, and this is the field of dramatic education, often associated with educational movement. In those dramatic education classes, where they are in the whole spectrum of regional education, there is no practice of theatre, as we might expect, but children gain very important social skills there, learning to communicate their emotions and to understand others at the same time. We can say that where dramatic education in classrooms is actually improving the atmosphere of school, because sometimes the so-called vent of sometimes limping relationships, even in an experience-driven dramatic upbringing, and very often in the bud, the beginning of the bullying will be dampened. Another very well applicable field of responsibility for dramatic education is for pupils with specific educational needs, and especially for students with hearing disabilities. Graduates of these fields of artistic and pedagogical, specifically in Prague's DAMU, can work very well with this group of pupils. Another such demand, which is in schools, especially in secondary schools, is the demand for improved media education, which is also very important. And it is the professional leadership of children and youth that allows them to judge openly and critically, for example, their encounters with theatrical and film art. What's the problem, anyway? Qualified graduates of a Master's degree, which has an accredited field of art and education, are undoubtedly unable to prove their qualifications to the director of a school, although they know from the beginning that they are studying the focus of artistic and pedagogical in higher education. So we need to realize that at DAMU, for example, there are fields that are being prepared by performers, and there are fields that are already accredited for dramatic education. It would be a great shame, therefore, that such well-prepared graduates, who have not only didactics in their studies, but also have pedagogical psychology, psychology, and, as I say, some of the fields that bring them closer together, perhaps with special pedagogy, do not find their application simply because the head of the school facility cannot find them in any way in the law. [[15.00 hours]] So I took the liberty of simply doing so in the article. 1 to § 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 18 add the sentence that the teacher is qualified. Now, as I have listed the sections, this concerns the first degree of primary schools, the second grade of primary schools, secondary schools, primary schools of art, but these graduates will also find application in leisure activities, i.e. For example in the homes of children and youth etc., so everywhere I actually took the liberty of inserting basically a sentence which says that a teacher is also a teacher of the subject of artistic focus, who will be qualified by a university degree obtained by a study in an accredited Master's degree programme in the field of art and study in the field of artistic-educational focus. And then, in a detailed debate, I will allow myself to sign up for this amendment. Perhaps I would like to conclude by briefly quoting one or two sentences from the Second World Conference of UNESCO on Art Education in Seoul, 2010, where it is spoken, where the strategy is to confirm artistic education as a basis for balanced creative, cognitive, emotional, aesthetic and social development of children, youth and lifelong students. And the first measure is the development of the concept and use of all resources for the application and improvement of artistic, virtually. arts and pedagogical fields. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u9	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Luzar's microphone with a factual remark, Mrs Semelová will prepare herself, also with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u10	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask the question rather statistically and perhaps at second reading for the guarantee committee interesting, certainly for me. The point is that this chaining of employment contracts has been strongly mediated as a negative phenomenon, and I do not know the founder who would take it as a standard procedure for his relationship as the founder of the school's principal. I therefore ask how a statistically significant group of such chains is. Does this concern private founders or municipal founders, regional founders of these educational institutions? If this were to be the case, let's say, the founders of municipal or regional, there are probably lists of which cities which municipalities advance like this. Because on the one hand, we hear about the great responsibility of the mayors here, and many times we are convinced here that the mayors know best and best about their management of the village, and on the other hand, they do not go against clear amoral behavior, possibly. they tolerate him in their communities. I would be very interested in these statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u11	Thank you and I will ask Mrs Semelová for the microphone, Mr Zlatuška will be ready. [[Noise left]] Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u12	Thank you. I will follow up on my colleague and try to answer some questions without taking the floor of the Minister. We discussed this on the committee. I just want to remind you that all teachers should have a week's holiday to draw their strength to the next school year, and unfortunately, this is not always the case, because there are many teachers who have a contract only for ten months and are dependent then either on going to the employment office, taking different jobs, or not signing up and just somehow surviving it, precisely because they are afraid that the contract with them will also be renewed in September. If I could list some statistics, and it does not concern only private schools, it concerns all schools, all founders, so last June, in the register of the employment office, 411 candidates for teaching courses were. 411. In July, there were 3060. Then, in September, this number fell to 314. I think that these numbers speak of themselves, that these are the numbers that are warning, and we should be seriously concerned about this question of truth. I am sorry that this law is stuck in the legislative process, because it does not apply from 1 July 2015 as it should have, and unfortunately it will happen again next year, because even if it applies from next year, contracts are made in September and it means that next year it will happen again. That is why I would very much like us to discuss this in a factual way so that this law will come into effect as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u13	Thank you and I will ask for Mr. Zlatuška's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister, on this issue, how many teachers are involved. I would like to repeat what I said both on the committee and at first reading. When the union approached me to support this law, I asked how much they knew about teachers. They have no knowledge of this and no data on how many teachers it involves. As for the data that Mrs Semelová said here, if school graduates happen to be putting their job applications at the office, that also explains the increase before the holidays. That doesn't mean there's a blackout. I would merely recommend focusing on the balance of funds between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, because if the number of teachers receive unemployment support during the holidays and are employed in the future, it would be appropriate to move the funds to the education department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u15	Thank you, and now, please, to Mrs Putnová's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u16	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, when the previous management of the Ministry of Education announced that it was preparing this amendment, we made it clear that we would support it. We wanted to support her, to make it clear who we are in this dispute with teachers versus directors. We wanted to make it clear that this immoral practice, which has been practiced in Czech education for many years, is unacceptable and that we welcome the way in which this ends. In this factual dispute, directors versus teachers are clearly on the side of teachers. I regret, Madam Secretary, that you must have your premiere in the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment to the law which, in my opinion, is necessary. From the extensive discussion we had on the school committee, it was clear that many experienced school directors considered the dismissal of teachers as a managerial failure. It's an immoral practice, and it's a failure of directors. The discussions that we also held there have completely disappeared from the founders. And I believe that this is also the error of communication that goes to the Ministry of Education in the past period - not only the last one, it is a longer-term issue. How is it that mayors of municipalities are not interested in teaching their children teachers who are hired as mercenaries from autumn to spring? How is it that they tolerate this? Where are the school councils, where are the unions, the methodology of the Ministry of Education? These are all tools that should have been used before using the most powerful tool, namely the law. I believe that the Ministry of Education has simplified the situation. It was the easiest way for him, the amendment to the law, instead of the uncomfortable conflicting road of communication, the negotiation of redress, the explanation, the education, the publication of those who did not respect the recommendations of the Ministry of Education in the long term. I believe that we should not deal with all the ills in education with an amendment to the law. Not because I'm afraid of work, but if that's the case, ladies and gentlemen, we have to roll up our sleeves and we have a lot of work to do. On the other hand, I would not want to live in a country where all decisions and all our actions will correct and rule the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u17	I thank the honourable Member and now I ask for a microphone with Mr Stanjura's de facto Member, Mr Kořenek will prepare himself for the de facto Member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Putnová rightly said: the law is useless. You said "necessary," I think it's useless. There are really strong words coming out here - worries, whether we're on the board of directors or teachers. But we're not the ones who should be whistling the employment relationship between the principal and the teacher. Where did we get that the legislators are gonna whistle a match between the principals and the teachers? And what kind of immoral practice? Does the labor code apply? Deal. Is it naughty in other professions, or is it just the only one? If it's immoral in general, let's change the labor code. When we look at the diction of the law, the contract must not be shorter than 12 months for a specified period. And you're trying to stop that teacher from being out of a job on vacation. What if he gets in January? Do we understand each other? Or he'll start in June and 12 months will pass, one vacation will be home and the other won't. It's not gonna solve anything. And then I'd like some quantification. I think that the vast majority of mayors are interested in their primary schools and have an overview. Let's not say the mayors don't care. If school councils don't work, let's have fun if they're even useful. If it is not just a formal body, which then becomes a fan club director, which is used very often to pressure the founder to increase the operating contribution. I think my town is not the only one where it happens that school councils write to representatives and say: this is an excellent school, an excellent director, we propose to increase the budget for next year. Whether it's really the critical distance, or if it's the fan clubs. But I wonder how many of these cases we have. And how do we prevent it when someone gets on July 1, 2016, because we're not gonna make it this year, they're gonna get a fixed-term contract for a period of 12 months, they're gonna end up 30. 6. 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u19	Mr. Ambassador, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u20	Thank you. I'll come back one more time. Maybe someone will answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u21	Okay. I would like to see Mr Kořenko's microphone, Mrs Semelová will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u22	Good afternoon. So that things happen that shouldn't happen, we all know that. Anyway, I'd like to get back to the school board. The school board has the competence, it's due to school law 561, and I don't think employment relations are in those competences. Also, the founder has nothing to interfere with employment relations. That would therefore make me very happy as director, so that the founder dictates to me and somehow speaks to the competence vested in me by law. As for other things, please, maybe we should think about when these problems arose in education. I personally believe that they were created at the time when the sectoral management of education was abolished and when, in essence, all competences were transferred to individual settlers. And basically today, even the methodical management that can go from the Ministry of Education doesn't oblige individual school directors to do anything. That is why I think this adjustment is appropriate if we want to confirm that the teacher's prestige is to be preserved in some way. Then, of course, we can also see if directors who do not behave completely morally can be a good example for both their teachers and their pupils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u23	Thank you, too, and I'll ask Mrs Semelová for the microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u24	Thank you. I would like to address Mr Stanjura through Madam President. We don't want this law to be a dispute between directors and teachers. No way. I also think that the vast majority of directors are trying to make sure that teachers have dignified conditions. But we want to help with this law so that teachers in all the schools of all founders have really dignified working conditions, so that they do not have to go to work offices every year, but to relax, on the one hand, so that they can devote themselves to self-education, etc. In addition, these teachers, who are employed for 10 months, have a problem taking a loan, taking a mortgage because they won't get it. And about the union issue. The unions have repeatedly asked for this to be dealt with, because, as you can see, the labour code is simply not enough. There is a need to ensure the legal form of the working conditions of teachers so that they can do their work in a truly dignified way and in the way that is needed. The school unions have repeatedly requested this amendment or this law for several years, and we, the Ministry of Education, together with the House, should come out of the need that is based on practice. And the fact that it's coming out of practice, that's just what we see every year, is that the media testifies to it. The second thing is if all the teachers actually sign up. I was talking about it at the employment office. The problem is, there's really fear in many schools, they're just worried if they're gonna call if they get the job or not. And all of this I think we should be aware of when we discuss this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u25	I thank you, and now, please, to Mr Zahradník's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u26	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I will first comment on the problem that we are therefore dealing with and because of which Law No No 1 has been reopened. 563/2004 Coll., on teaching staff. I've been the founder of a private school for eight years, as well as its director. I can't imagine letting them teach teachers at that school who would be so humiliatingly employed. So I consider it absolutely impossible, and I think that even from a moral point of view, from the point of view of parental pressure, from the point of view of union pressure, such a disorder should be impossible. And, in fact, it's already been mentioned here, trying to stop all such bad guys from getting the law right away, that's the thing that's gonna confuse our system with so many laws that no one's gonna know about it in a second. However, Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to take advantage of the opening of this law, which is presented here as press 407/2, at the moment at second reading, i.e. it is possible to table amendments at second reading, and I would like to use it to do what I did before the end of last year, when this law was opened and its amendment was discussed as Parliamentary Press 206. At the time, I fought very hard to keep governesses in children's homes, i.e. in those homes that do not require an increased care regime, where children are raised, who simply do not have parents who have unhappiness, that they do not have parents, that they must therefore spend their childhood in a child's home. And those governesses who take care of them should be required of them the main qualifications to be nice so that they like the children. But on the contrary, we have demanded and anchored that we require that they have a university education. Therefore, I would like to allow myself to go back to my proposal and try again, and I would like to table here an amendment to the following text. In the present case, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. (d) the training provided for in point (c) of paragraph 2 shall be supplemented by a new point (d) as follows: Article 4 (1) (a) (f) and (g). This applies only to a tutor who performs direct pedagogical activities in a children's home - § 12 of Act 109/2002 Coll., as amended." At the same time, I also present a legislative technical change, which consists in the fact that "in Paragraph 16 (1) (a) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the word "or" shall be deleted and paragraph 16 (b) shall be deleted; Article 4 (1) (a) (c) at the end of the word or at the end of the word.' I think I've put the justification right here. So I will allow the rapporteur to submit my proposal to the old one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u27	Thank you, Mr Member, and I would like you to sign up for your proposal in a detailed debate once more. Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? Mr Stanjura with a proper application or with a prior right, even if he himself has so far been applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u28	This time I will not use the priority right and I am exactly in order. However, I would ask the secretary if she knows the number, let it tell us what percentage it is. And then let him answer my question, what happens when the teacher gets on July 1, 2016, he gets a contract for 12 months, which ends on July 30, according to an amendment to the law. 6. 2017 and holidays at the employment office. According to this amendment, the founder may renegotiate the employment contract with him from 1. 9. 2017. So what are we dealing with? Nothing. Because you would have to order it to make sense for no one to be at the employment office on vacation, that employment contracts can only be concluded at 1. 7. Then it'll work out for you. The moment you put another term, respectively. September 1st. If you allow another term, e.g. from 1. 7. So you will only put the problem aside by 12 months, but we will pretend that we, Members of Parliament, have solved the problem by law. I don't understand it at all, because it won't have any practical impact. It's a matter of founders, it's a matter of talking to those founders. I really think that mayors and governors and regional councils in the case of secondary schools and municipal and municipal councils in the case of primary schools can really have it in their own hands and do not need a new paragraph and we do not need to renegotiate it. Let us remember the debate about this law just at the end of last year and we almost always hear: We need a quick approval, and don't worry, it's gonna be stable now. Well, how long did it last? So why didn't we deal with it when it's an old problem since the '90s? Why didn't we discuss this in the last novel that was here a few months ago? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u29	I thank you, and now I beg you, Mr Kořenko, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u30	I'll allow my colleague to argue a little or explain from practice. I'm not gonna stand up for directors in general right now. The school year under the Education Act lasts from 1 September to 31 August of the relevant year. I can't imagine the director accepting if he's doing an organization since September 1st, which is what he's doing, a teacher in the old school year. So this is going to be equal to 1. 7. It's nonsense organizational, economic, because I don't have a job for him for two months. I understand. In theory, yes. Of course, I can accept it whenever I want, but I accept it according to the organization to the first. I say it the way it works in practice. What is the problem, and I have to get back to the directors a little bit, often because of it, and mostly in village schools, the practice started with village schools, when there were no funds, there were few pupils, so they solved their problem by accepting teachers by 30. 6, then paid him part of the holiday, i.e. 20 days, and on September 1 they accepted him again. In terms of economy, they saved a few thousand, but in terms of some prestige of the teaching profession and also of savings, I think that means nothing at all. So I think we're dealing with this, and that's also the subject of the adjustment, logically speaking, that basically if I accept a teacher for the school year, he'll be employed for the whole school year. That's all. The fact that something is wrong in this system, yes, I do, of course, admit it, but I think this amendment will make it clear to the directors who are using this practice completely and quite commonly, that it is simply not okay. If we had everything the way it's supposed to be, and everyone followed the law, I don't think we're dealing with this problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u31	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Stanjura, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u32	I didn't want to, but I'm gonna ask a question, and the government MP is arguing with me. I don't know how to argue with a question. If I ask a question, I expect an answer, then I can have some comment. You argue with the question, which is a rather special method. But what you said isn't convincing. I'll take it from 1:00. 7. The new employee doesn't have a job, but the old ones, they have a job. There's no logic to that. I know you're talking about practice and experience, I understand that, but shouldn't we just make it a law? What if someone does it differently? Let's imagine that. That's what's gonna shift the damage. Well, he won't have two months saved every year, he won't save in 24 months, he won't save four months, but after this excellent bill, he'll save at least two months. I'm from the village. I went to first grade in the village. Don't tell me the village schools started saving up. In my town, we had a small-class school, we subsidized from the city's budget, because senseless demands that went, whether I should be there 15 or 14, or 13 children, and according to that standard, they just don't have any logic if we want to keep the school in the village, and I think that's in the interest. But the council made a voluntary decision and put the money there. I may, unlike many of you, have much more confidence in the decision-making of self-government that when the community wants to go to school, it simply establishes it. We also, a few years ago, and it was our proposal, pushed into the budgetary determination of taxes that one of the parameters that divides shared taxes is also according to the number of pupils, i.e. When there are two of the same municipalities and one of them has a school and the other one doesn't, the one who has the school gets more money from the shared taxes. There was this humiliating argument between the mayors that are non-investment expenses for school repairs and billing between the municipalities for those children who commuted to the village next door. It's all true. And now I hear here that this filthy thing was created in the village schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u33	Mr. Ambassador, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u34	Again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u35	Yes. [[Member of Stanjura: Thank you.]] Please. I'll ask the secretary: you're applying, but if it's factual, you've got two minutes. So please, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u36	I will only allow myself to react quickly to the debate. As for the number of teachers affected by this negative practice, it doesn't contain a reasoned report, I tried to find out exactly the figures before the example of today, which I failed to do. However, the education unions confirm that where collective agreements are concluded, there is no such failure. However, they have identified that it is in particular private schools that approach this negative practice or smaller schools where collective agreements are not concluded. We derive only from the data of the Labor Office, which has already been suggested by Mrs Semelová. However, it is also true that, even in this case, this is a trend, a qualified estimate, not a precise number of how many teachers have been affected by this practice. However, I would ask Members across the political spectrum to support this amendment because it actually responds to the specificity of ensuring the educational process and its quality in terms of the 12-month interval. Even what President Stanjura says, i.e. Changing the negative practice that contracts would be concluded from another would mean an improvement after the adoption of this law, because of course it follows chaining, i.e. 12, 12, 12, so the situation would still improve in terms of the continuity of the teacher's employment towards the founder. But otherwise I do not, of course, defend myself as a minister, to call on both the Union of Cities and the Association of Regions at this stage to pay attention as founders to this disorder and, of course, to try to avoid this negative practice. bohužel, with regard to the standard time limits in the Chamber of Deputies, it has been said that unfortunately, we will no longer affect the 2015/2016 school year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u37	Madam Secretary, your time is up. Thank you. I have three factual points here. Mr. Kořenko, Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u38	I believe I won't argue or want to. I didn't want to make it sound like it was just a practice in municipal schools or villages, rather coming from reality where I first recorded signals that it was happening. That's one thing. Second thing. I would like to point out that I have been the director since 2005, before that I have been a deputy and I have also devoted myself to the budget. Unfortunately, wage cuts were made under right-wing governments. That's one thing. And the fact that it was written about how teachers were joined - it was generally added, but it was taken from non-interested folders, or the amount of funds in schools did not change or decreased. I can document it from a specific school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u39	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Zlatuška' mike. Mr. Heger will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u40	Madam President, I did not think that I would have any idea how to improve the law, but at the time when the Minister said that he did not actually have data on how much it involved, but still we would improve the teaching process, so I would like to put forward to the thought that it would also be appropriate to abolish inhumane teaching methods, i.e. for example, prohibit teaching by the Cimrmanův's kennel fixation method, because it might scare pupils. We don't know if this is happening either, but if we don't, we're gonna improve our education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u41	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Heger in fact, Mr Gabal will be prepared, then with the Minister in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have a bit of a feeling that the debate has gotten into such a charified sophistication, and although I agree with President Stanjura in the vast majority of cases, I must say that he has really played the sophistication here and that if he joins an elite teachership in the middle of the school year and then he has a problem with the holiday contract one day, then it will be over and then it will be settled if he is in a normal school. I am the last person who would like to stand up for the Labour Code, and I also think that it should be relaxed rather than tightened up, but on the other hand, it must be said that if education is underfunded, and I say this with full knowledge that health is also said to be underfunded, but that is what education is about staff, i.e. certainly worse when it comes to staff and salaries. And it's not just that we should encourage everyone to have the highest wage in general, but we should support certain elites in the nation. And the teachers are part of it. And to say that when they're better, we'll give them the salaries when they deserve them, that's just wrong, and it should be for education, if there's no more money, to do at least something preventive. And what is presented here is at least some symbolic signal that some things should be improved for teachers, although it is certainly not through the code of work the happiest. But I'm still interrogating myself for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u43	Thank you. Now, please get to Mr. Gabal's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, I feel like we're torturing you here when we're prying numbers out of you that you don't know. [[She's turning to the minister.]] It's vacation time. What if we did so by September, the Czech School Inspectorate made a 10% choice of schools and found out how many cases there are - and this is a procedural proposal - until then they did not interrupt the discussion of the point, and then we saw if we were really going, we weren't going to go to a mosquito with some too big hammer and if the problem was real. And think of it as trying to get that thing on the ground and you're a little stressed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u45	Mr. Ambassador, did you make a procedural motion to interrupt this point? [[Yes.]] Okay, we're gonna vote on this without a debate. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. [[The commotion in the hall, the ČSSD MEPs disagree with the interruption.]] I am opening the vote on Mr Gabal's procedural proposal to interrupt this point by September. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 230, to which 129 are registered, for 16, against 98. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. I have factual points here, I prefer them. I would like to ask the Minister, who is signed up with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u46	I would just like to say that, of course, I will try until the third reading, not to say through the Czech School Inspectorate, but by a questionnaire inquiry, which we will find the method, to refine at least the qualified estimate. But at the same time, I'd like to urge you that this is not the first time that we don't have precise numbers and yet we know that there is a problem. And as far as the school unions are concerned, I believe that this is a qualified forum that we can trust. Firstly, it represents educators and we should also respect their opinion in this regard. With regard to the numbers that we have mediated through the employment office, they also suggest that this negative trend is taking place. I believe that all the educators who are watching us at the moment would confirm that these methods are taking place in practice. And it is not important whether it is most of the employment conditions that are affected in this way, or if it is a minority, but the point is that it is unacceptable to interfere with the quality of education in this way and in terms of the non-financing of the education system where we have long-term problems with standardisation, at the expense of teachers and then the quality of education for our children to proceed in this way. Please, I understand the legislators that sometimes less is more, but in this case I very much intercede for supporting this government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u47	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with the de facto remark of Mr Opálka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I just want to make a comment on the criticisms of the Labour Code. You know, it depends on how sophisticated the employment environment is, what the awareness of people is. Let me give you an example. When I was in Sweden, when we were on a trip, he asked what their minimum wage was, they looked at me misunderstood. Then I didn't get the idea that they just don't need the institute, because that's where employers act so, and the unions are in all the workplaces, that the system is being handled completely differently and against our country above standard. And since we haven't been able to cultivate the environment in 25 years of capitalism, we have to regulate it with the Labour Code, the Employment Act, the Labour Safety Act. Maybe one day we'll be better off, and these standards will be everyone's own, and they won't have to be codified by these laws. That's all I wanted to fill in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u49	Thank you. Now, please contact Mr Stanjura's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u50	It's not as hot today as yesterday. [[Yesterday it was 35 °C, today it's only 25 °C.]] But sometimes I feel like we're losing our judgment. The whole combat vote, the left is very satisfied, as it turned out, was about seven days. If we don't interrupt today, third reading will be September 16 at the earliest, if it's the government's priority. If we interrupt, the second reading is September 15th, and the third reading may be September 24th. But we won the vote. We have won that it may be seven days earlier. Well, I don't know if it's decisive. It doesn't make any sense for this school year. [[15.40 hours]] Madam Secretary is a piece of legislation. She said such a sentence here that it doesn't matter if it's most or minority. And what if it's a distinct minority? I thought those cases were three. I'll be interested in the percentage. I'd like to hear if you're gonna get the numbers, not just an estimate, but a real number. Otherwise, we move in some estimates, feelings, signals, experiences, information. I heard: they were village schools, they weren't village schools, there's a lot of them, there's not a lot of them, the unions wanted it, the unions didn't want it. With all due respect to my colleague, Mr Heger, as he says: it may be of no use, but we will send a positive signal... Well, I don't know if we're supposed to send a positive signal by changing some of the paragraphs. If it's the right thing to do. And really, that's what the private schools do. [[unintelligible]] Some take it back a little bit, they're not the mayors anymore, maybe they're the private owners who didn't... And to say the sentence, it was repeated here, and the secretary said it was almost illegal. But that's legal procedure. And I asked you what the difference is between other professions. In other professions, it's moral, and in this profession it's immoral? In other professions, when they have a fixed-term contract, do they get a mortgage and loan unlike teachers, or do they not? That's why I'm a supporter of a general solution, not a special one. About the labor code. Of course, the current state of the Labour Code leads to fewer jobs than could be. Because it's not the kind of world where the bad employers and the good employees are. Also, there are employees who aren't nice when I put it that way euphemistically. And getting rid of him isn't exactly easy for the employer. And it's not just a question of, like, manufacturing companies, but it's also in education. Ask the mayors how easy it is to replace a director who isn't good. If he hasn't broken anything, he's formally filling everything, only the school is stagnating. For example, she's not that popular in the city. There are fewer pupils there. Do you have a chance to replace the director? You don't. Because there's always a fairy tale here about how the mayor made his friend or wife a friend to the principal or director of that little school. Yet, who is involved in this city and even in a larger city like Opava, when you have 14 elementary schools, you will see the trends that school is excellent, which is mediocre and where the problem is that parents are losing interest in it. And do we have a chance to replace the director? Madam Secretary, try to give the self-government some kind of tool so they can have a chance! You don't stand a chance. Not at all. When a measure of quite common in other professions was passed into the law, the measure that once every six years, a tender may be issued for the director who triggered it for resistance! How few courageous founders have stood up to this. And across the board. [[unintelligible]] Why across the board? I mean, these are things that are meant to be dealt with individually. Not across the board giving contracts for an indefinite period and not all of them as if to change regularly. So the law is just useless. Maybe it'll pass September 15th, maybe it'll pass September 22nd. But the moment we don't have those numbers before the third reading, and I think Mr Gabal's proposal was completely correct. Don't let us worry now. I understand that. If the numbers aren't there, it's your predecessor's fault, because those numbers were supposed to be there to know if we're really gonna help anyone, or if we're just getting signals, good or bad. And I didn't say anyone was getting in during the school year, as one of the previous speakers mentioned. I said yes, according to the law and the logic of the school public, the school year is from 1 September to 31 August. According to the experience and interpretation of the parental public and the pupil's, which is therefore much larger, the school year begins on September 1st and ends on 30th. 6. That's the way it is. Otherwise it is perceived by directors and teachers, the length of the school year, and otherwise it is perceived by pupils and parents. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a holiday. Today somewhere seven, somewhere eight, somewhere 12 days. [[weeks?]] So it doesn't feel like it to me, and I've never been head of school, and I won't be, but I don't think it's completely excluded that I'm going to accept someone on July 1st. In order to have time to prepare and on September 1 he fully participated in teaching. I find it much more logical than accepting someone on September 1st to sign a contract that day and teach in an hour. Sounds to me like it could work that way. And I have this feeling, and I have these signals, and I've heard that this is happening since I was 1. 7. that's what it is, but I can't quite quantify it. But we should think about it and say whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, and on that basis either accept or not accept another paragraph. Thank you. And if anyone thinks it's an absurd debate and the absurd arguments I'm making, it's true. But how else do you want to react when you have an absurd proposal and absurd justification for that? So in the debate, you try to point out comedianity or illogicality and maybe you're using a cartoon, maybe distortion, maybe stronger words, stronger examples than a wholesome debate would deserve. But if the government doesn't know how many people it involves, but good can be done and it wants to be, then it's complicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u51	Thank you, and now please make a point of fact to Mrs Semelová. Then the Minister and then Mrs Bohdalová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u52	To tell you the truth, I don't understand the debate from the right. It's not about impression, it's not about feeling. Those guys are just going through it for themselves. There are statistics from the Labor Office, there are information from the media every year, from different regions, from different places, from different schools, there are information from trade unions, the Association of educators and elementary school directors, other pedagogical associations. And the moment a law is to be passed to resolve the situation, or at least to improve it, we'll be here for tens of minutes, hours to discuss whether the law is useless or not, and if we don't put it down again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u53	Thank you. I'll ask the secretary for a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u54	I dare to answer the question of the legality and lawlessness of the procedure. I believe that this is an illegal procedure, and differences in terms of teaching staff are particularly apparent because the school year continues. So repeatedly educators lose their jobs, so-called loses them, June 30th, and then accidentally get 1. 9. In this case, it is not only the contractual freedom between the parties, which, of course, should be equal, regardless of profession or profession, and in this case we will no doubt agree, but in this case the hostages are not only teachers, but especially children and education and the quality of their education. So, as Minister of Education, there is no way I am going to tolerate this, and in any case, I will continue to defend and support this government bill. Subject to my respect for the reservations expressed by Members, you have the right to have the explanatory memorandum contain these dates. And I am making a promise here that, of course, during the final vote, you will have this data at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u55	Thank you. I have five factual points here. I will ask Mrs Bohdalová for the microphone, Mrs Hnyková will prepare herself, then Mr Kořenek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u56	There's nothing to be done, but everyone in this House understands education. And that's why we always talk about him this long. My friends, if this thing were to involve ten, twenty cantors who would be affected by this, it would be worth it to deal with here. Remember those over 200 or 2,000 kids, I don't know exactly how many it was that we fought over here about the forest kindergartens. So this is where all the numbers went down. But here we are talking about the people who are preparing our youth for the future. And I'll tell you, it's very undignified for a cantor to teach high school mathematics for ten months, and then the guys went out on vacation, and the same cantor, because he hasn't got a job for two months, served them at the kiosk camp! And that's what this law is about to prevent. I don't think it really matters if we know if there are 1,300 people now or if it's 700 people. But if the secretary tells us before the third reading, you'll each have the opportunity to consider whether 700 cantors, 100 cantors or 2,000 cantors are too many or too few for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u57	Thank you and I will ask Mrs Hnyková for a microphone, Mr Kořenek will be prepared, followed by Mr Urban. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u58	Dear colleagues, I didn't want to speak because I really don't understand education. But I'm asking myself one basic question. We're talking about it here, but we don't see the person behind it. I mean, the teacher he gets, and we all know in his county that he's just a mess that's going on. A) We must see behind the teacher that he is a person who needs at least some assurance. And I would very much like us to end this debate and be able to pursue other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u59	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Kořenko's mike. Mr Urban will be prepared, then Mr Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u60	Thank you. I would like to respond to the untruth or inaccuracies that have fallen here. As legislators, I don't think we should confuse the public by when the school year lasts. The school year is defined in Section 24 of Act No. 561/2004 Sb. in its up-to-date version and states in paragraph 1 that the school year is divided into, inter alia, periods of schooling and school holidays. And it literally states that it lasts from 1 September to 31 August. That's the legal definition, and we should stick to that. What we say at other times, how we perceive it, we don't perceive it, that's exactly what helps reduce the perception of the teaching profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u61	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Urbane's mike. Mr Stanjura will be ready, then Mr Beznoska will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone will argue with me that the future of our nation lies in being a smart, hardworking, educated and skilled nation, which means that we will have educated and skilled people in this sense in particular. It can't be done without starting at primary, high school, maybe kindergarten. I guess we don't have to argue about that. We're gonna argue here, like we're gonna have a little bypass on the other ear, and I think someone in front of me said that. That's how we deal with the lack of funding in education. I think most directors aren't doing this because they're happy about it and that they're shutting down their colleagues for two months, and they're shutting them down again in two months. I think they're doing this absolutely out of a 99.9 percent shortage of funds. Let us think about how to remedy this situation in the future. We need qualified teachers so that we can even think about some future of the Czech nation. If we can't add funds to the budget right now, I don't think we can do this one time, so let's just regulate the practice in some way with this law. I think we're going to argue about too much detail here. The teacher is simply to have a certain authority, that he does not have it, and he does not have it because the state does not have enough resources. Let's end this debate and let's adopt a law that's not over-regulating, that makes sense. But that's because, in the future, it's not just this law that makes sense, it's the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u63	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Stanjura's microphone, Mr Beznoska, Mr Zlatuška, will be prepared after him. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u64	I would ask honored colleagues not to translate my speech from Czech into Czech language and give it a different meaning. My mom's a teacher. I know exactly what the teacher's life is like. And it's not an attack on the cantors or the teachers at all. We're talking about whether we're adopting unnecessary and redundant laws - yes or no. For you who are in favour, see who defends him most: Mrs Semelová. Don't you find that suspicious? [[Cheer and applause in the left side of the hall.]] I want to say what the secretary said. I don't agree with her, but I take her seriously. If this is an illegal procedure and you bring us in September that it concerned thousands of teachers, I assume that you or your office will file a thousand criminal charges for illegal action. Otherwise, we can't just wave it around in public space and say it's illegal. I don't think so, but I have no reason not to believe you. So please solve the illegal procedures. So those directors, if the founder is a public administration, throw out an hour for gross breach of duty. Or let's not say it was illegal, and let's say it's unfortunate, undignified. It's all right. That's a different category than something illegal. I'll leave it to you. I'm not gonna argue with you about this. I don't have that much information. Just for my colleague Urban. We're not taking anything today. It's either September 16th or 23. That's totally cool. None of us are suggesting we dismiss the law, we just don't support it because it's useless. It is not the first unnecessary law, and unfortunately, in this government, I fear that it is not even the last unnecessary law. Why not? But at least we should have some facts, or we'll talk in those signals. Mr. Kořenek didn't listen to me when I said that my parents saw what the school year looked like, other than those who knew it. And you can quote a hundred times the name of the law, the law number, the paragraph. Ask your parents how long the school year is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u65	I just wanted to say your time is up. Okay, thank you. Now, please, to the microphone of Mr. Beznoska. Mr Zlatuška will be prepared, then Mr Novotný and three more factual points. Mr Novotný is interrupting, so after him, Mr Fiala. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Briefly. I was also a school principal, not a elementary school, but a high school, a higher vocational school, a state language school. I had 73 cantors. And I haven't seen this practice we're talking about. I just didn't do it. I behaved correctly, took over the cantor and accepted August 1st. It wasn't a problem. I keep watching the school from a distance, and I don't think it's a mass phenomenon. It is, in my opinion, a small quantity of up to one, up to two percent of the cantors involved. I also consider this law unnecessary. Otherwise, if we want to qualify one working group before another, it's not good. We really need to look at either the labour code or, above all, and I would very much agree with Mr Urban, what we can do for the cantors in terms of preparing the state budget, because the director, who has enough money, will certainly not proceed so that he would make the cantors' vacation more difficult than they have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u67	Thank you. Another registered with the facts is Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. I don't see him here, so his application is forfeit. Mr. Fiala's microphone, please. Madam Secretary will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u68	Thank you. I don't know the number either, and I assume it's going to be very small and that the problem we're dealing with here hardly exists in practice. And I look forward to the secretary's telling us how many people this is really about. But there have been some things that really aren't true, or that are only partially true. The problem of financing Czech education is not, and everyone who understands it knows it in the amount of funds, but in the way they are handled. Indeed, the fact that some schools do not have sufficient funds is not because the whole budget is small, but is how it is redistributed across individual regions. And I have been pointing out here for years that it is necessary to finally reform the financing of regional education, which I started preparing, but which my successor left social democracy or did not pay for, and to change the fact that we have long-term financial inequalities between individual regions, which affect the quality of education and, of course, also how teachers are paid in individual schools. That's the first problem. Second. We're talking about teachers, let's talk about directors. We want them to be very responsible, but we are constantly reducing their decision-making powers, coloring their funds. The director has less and less ability to run the school. And this, of course, is another measure that goes in that direction. Even the explanatory note, when you read it, speaks of cases where shorter working conditions are appropriate. So let's not look at it like it's negative anyway. It's not true. Even the explanatory note contains it. And if we want to do something for the teacher, let's not make such laws, but let's finally prepare a career order that is almost ready to be presented. And if we accept it, we will really help teachers and we will also help the quality of Czech education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u69	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u70	I'd just briefly respond that I'm deliberately, because I'm a lawyer, using the statement that this is an illegal procedure. Because if the school director knows that he will need a teacher to provide teaching continuously from 1 September, then he is committing to circumventing the law and circumventing the law is an illegal procedure. So as for the ball that President Stanjura has returned to me from the point of view of the Ministry's responsibility, I accept this criticism, of course. But on the other hand, I believe that colleagues in opposition benches also know that this has not happened in a year and a half - reducing the possibilities of the Ministry of Education's management and control mechanisms into the education system. And we all know that from the point of view of the founders of the Ministry of Education's ability to influence this procedure, they are minimal. But I'm not saying that I'm not going to deal with it and that I'm closing my eyes to it. And as for how to respond to this illegal procedure, yes, of course any of those teachers could, and from my point of view, successfully defend themselves with an individual suit. But on the other hand, do we want to set the system up so that teachers will turn to the court as another state institution and call for justice? Or if we have one of the instruments that this partial amendment to the law is, will we use the system settings to make it possible for the law to be done the way it is supposed to be? If the state intensifies into the educational system and intensifies because the education system, education, is very regulated, this partial change will not collapse in terms of regulation. And then, if colleagues from the opposition ranks and their experts admit that their qualified estimate could be about 2 percent of the teachers, that's enough for me. That's thousands of them. That's enough for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u71	Thank you. I have three factual points - Mr Svoboda, then Mrs Nováková and then Mr Nekl. I'll ask Mr. Liberty for a microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that what we should know is the basic number of teachers. When I was forbidden to teach and became a scientist for some time, it is forbidden to start healing on the basis of what we called "immology." That's just a crime. And why do we need to know that? Well, for two reasons: either there's a lot of them, and then it's not important to deal with it, or there's a lot of them, but then there's a lot to deal with. But other than that. Because then it means confirming that regional education is wrong. It's wrong, it's not solved, it doesn't have the means. I'm not even saying why he doesn't have them. But we're not gonna solve this by making it harder for the director to not be able to deal with it, and he's gonna have even less of that money. So I want a number, and that number says to me, either it's insignificant, and then I'm not doing anything, or that number is going to be significant, and then the first step that the Minister of Education has to take is to solve regional education. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u73	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Nováková, Mr Nekl will be prepared and then Mr Rais. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I don't think we should be interrupting schools, as I've heard from some of my colleagues here. I'd just like to make a comment from practice. We really kind of see it in black and white here, but you, who have been in education for the last ten years, so you know that the transition actually to the implementation of the curricular reform - the transition to school education programs - automatically, especially in secondary schools and at the second grade of primary schools, has brought great variability in new subjects, seminars, etc. And it's really logical that the director is trying to see if the seminar is going to be well applied within his school education program, and then logically he's going to take an expert - it might be a language, like a smaller school language teacher can't make a living with, like, some Spanish or something, so the director just tries it, and it's his perfectly normal thinking that he's gonna try it and make a contract with the teacher for a certain period of time for one so-called active school year. But if he doesn't know after three years, that's obviously a serious mistake. Because then he doesn't know what his school education program looks like. But in practice it's not so absurd, it doesn't necessarily have to be immoral, of course money plays a role there, because in the meantime, cleaning women have to wash windows during the holidays, so it just doesn't get to the teacher sometimes. That's right. But I think it is also because our education is actually changing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u75	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Nekl's microphone, Mr Rais will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u76	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, I suppose I won't tire them out. But he won't give me more than to respond to Mr Stanjura's final remark, because it seems to me that he has once again used such a method when you don't know where to go, so kick the Communists and Mrs Semelová. So I would like to propose equally ironically to Mr Stanjur that he choose from his collective someone who, in the course of discussing all possible laws in this grand House, will propose that all the laws that have been passed here and which have been discussed in the committees where Mrs Semelová is active and in which she has participated be described by this House as despicable and illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u77	Thank you. And please get to Mr. Rais's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u78	Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u79	And I'm gonna ask my colleagues for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u80	I think that in the two hours we've been listening to opinions or opinions about one operational problem, it's not much of anything else in it, which of course is very important, but he assumed that nothing is going on during that year, while teachers are leaving, coming, everyone is learning according to their curriculum, and there's just - I don't want to touch it - there's just too much volatility, or too much - futility, so I think it's also necessary... that from what has been said, it's very clear that this is all going to reform regional education. So whether it's the career order that Petr Fiala here said, or it's just the internal stuff. That funding is what everyone sees. That's it - I'm glad that after about half an hour, there was a first word, a word that I like, and that's the quality of it, from Madam Secretary, because I think that's also important. You need to look inside, too. Otherwise, of course, when we look at British education, if it was underfunded, it didn't do any good until when the real people there, the teachers were better off than average, they had better than average salaries, so it worked for something. So, of course, finances are necessary. But I would like to appeal, the Minister is new, so we can really have fun with the adjustments in the whole regional system just from a strategic point of view. Otherwise, of course, I support the solution to the operation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. And now Prime Minister Stanjura is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u82	For the last time today, or not for the last time. I'm not criticizing the Minister. There's a Marcel Chládek signed under the material, not Madam Secretary, so I was asking questions. Just a comment on the last speech of the secretary. The contract of employment is a voluntary act. I believe in people's judgment. I know that there are differences between the right and the left, that the left trusts institutions more, and the right trusts people more, individual judgment. That's normal, and that's the basic difference in the world view. And I respect that. I'm just saying, what's my opinion? I respect that other people have a different perspective. But I just feel like a person who believes in individual freedom - and I understand that when someone gets hurt by having the director repeatedly offering him a ten-month contract, he has other options than to sign the contract voluntarily again. I'm not saying everyone doesn't have to sign it. But he has another choice, and he can consider it. That's all. And I think the debate is that we're gonna go back to her at third reading when we get the numbers. But I wanted to say that it's not a criticism of the Minister, because it's not her proposal. She inherited it. That means, let's be fair again, I said if it were in the reason report - and again it's not the Minister's fault that she didn't create it - we didn't have to debate it and wonder if there are concepts or numbers. So just to get it right, I criticized the material, the content of the material, not the secretary, because it is not yet responsible for this material. They will come in others where the Minister will no longer have such an advantage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u83	Thank you. Mr Urban is reporting with a factual point of view. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u84	Thank you. I don't want to hold this up, but I find it absurd to divide this problem in some ideological way to the right-wing view and to the left-wing view. So let's imagine how it goes. Just on June 25th, the school principal calls two teachers and says, "Boys, what can I do? I don't have the money for your vacation wages. I don't have the money, so I have to send you to the employment office. Come on the 27th of August, I'll make a deal with you again. Well, if you don't come, I don't know who's gonna teach the math or the math." If this is a dignified system in the 21st century, how do we really want to succeed in the future, that we will be a smart, hardworking and handy nation, then of course we can leave it at that. We can tighten the cocks, and they can only teach for six months, then be home for two months, then teach for one month again. I think that's really what's gonna happen. I don't see anything right-left about it, even if I try to keep an eye on it. I just think it's practical. The problem here is, it's been created by all governments over the past 25 years, so I don't want to blame it on previous governments. Now there is some kind of operational solution - I liked the word - with the fact that, of course, the operational solution cannot stay here forever. It has to be dealt with in a system way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mrs Putnová, with a factual remark, I will read two of her apologies. Today's day from 14.30 to the end of the meeting day is excused by Minister Milan Chovanec for reasons of employment within the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Karel Fiedler also apologizes from today's meeting between 11.45 and 15.30 for work reasons. Now, therefore, Mrs Putnová's factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u86	Thank you. Good afternoon again. I'd like to get back to the matter. We're dealing with an area where teachers' contracts are chained, and I don't think there's anyone here who would approve of this practice and who would be rooting for those who run this practice. On the other hand, it must be said that this is a specific example on which we see the complete lack of guidance of the Ministry of Education to solve individual problems. And it's a long-term practice. So I think on this occasion we have a chance to realize that if we want to make changes in education, we need to have a clear view and know what steps will follow. Because if we just deal with the operatives, we're going to be dealing with constant novels that will either respond to bad amendments from the previous period, or they're just gonna be dealing with bad changes. So financing regional education, but its overall organisation, teacher's progress, faculty of education, their development and funding - these are key issues that need to be addressed from the point of view of education, because otherwise we will only be recycled in the context of operational solutions and improvements that are still not conceptual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u87	Thank you, Madame. As far as I can see, no one is reporting to the general debate anymore. Isn't that right? That's right. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the secretary's final words. Would you like to take the final word before a detailed debate? After a detailed debate. Okay. In that case, I am opening a detailed debate, in which I record three applications - Mrs Nováková, Mr Zahradník. And Mrs Putnová, am I correct? No. In that case, two applications - Mrs Nováková and Mr Zahradník. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment which is introduced into the system under the number 2500 and concerns the artistic and pedagogical directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u89	Thank you. I will therefore now ask Mr Zahradník to speak in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for the amendment, which I have read in detail in the general debate and forwarded in writing to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u91	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. I've noted that the Secretary of State was interested in the final word. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur will also take the final floor. No. Madam Secretary, your space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for the debate that has been held, including the subjects that have been raised here. I will, of course, make a commitment that I will be responsible for all of them and not only available on the committee responsible, and then, of course, in the third reading, with what I have already said in the submission that we will complement qualified estimates and data according to requests that have been made across the political spectrum. As far as the reform of regional education funding is concerned, it is only at the end - I signed up for this task right after I started. I believe my colleagues have registered it here. I hope it does not look forward to killing me, but rather that we will be able to discuss this proposal in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-010-013.u93	I trust you'll work well together. Since I don't see anyone with an application and there are no other proposals, I am ending second reading of this bill. Thank you both to the Minister and to the rapporteur. I'm opening another point that we've approved, and that's
