ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u1	121. Senate bill on sales time in retail and wholesale /house print 275/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 9 December 2014 at the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that Senator František Bublan and rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Květa Matušovská take the position on the rapporteur's table. Mrs Matušovská is excused from today's meeting. Since this is the first reading, the House must vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. With priority rights, Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mrs. and gentlemen, hello. According to my information, there is a proposal to amend the rapporteur for my colleague Karel Šidl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u3	Yes. We will now vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. The new rapporteur for this press should be Mr Karel Šidlo. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 97, to which 160 are registered, for 147, against 2. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I therefore ask the new rapporteur to take his place at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that the Government's position was delivered as a House press 275/1. We will now continue the adjourned general debate, and I am asking Mrs Kailová, first of all, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We now have the opportunity to approve the long-term selling time bill proposed by our fellow Members from the Senate. The content of this proposal is the limitation of the selling time in specified wholesale and retail stores in the law designated by public holidays. The intention of this law is also to change the practice in the Czech Republic and thus bring it closer to the conditions in the countries of the European Union, which protect their employees better. The main objective of this proposal is therefore to limit the selling time in retail and wholesale, so that it is not sold at seven public holidays and the sale on Christmas Eve is shortened until 12 o'clock. If we look at our neighbors, there are more strict restrictions. In Germany, for example, shops are closed on Sundays and holidays, and there is a similar situation in Austria. In Poland it is closed during the holidays and in Slovakia it is closed during the defined holidays. This law is also supported by trade unions, and social democracy has always defended workers' rights. Workers in business chains sometimes do not even have the opportunity to establish trade unions and thus promote their interests. That is why we have decided to defend their interests in this way. Our aim is to create more social conditions for our citizens working in these shops. These are to a large extent women, mothers who have the right to be more with their families. The operators of these trades are opposed and argue that both sales and jobs are lost. This argument is odd, in my opinion, because people still have the same amount of money that they can spend in a given month. However, I believe that there is more to this bill. The question is whether we will follow only the laws of the market and the person will remain behind, or we will try to restore the human dimension to market law. You who do not believe that by approving the proposal, we will contribute to the reconciliation of the family and working life of employees, which I am convinced of, at least acknowledge that by banning sales on important days of our history, we will contribute to the cultivation of society as such, that even young children will know that they are not shopping on these days, and that when they grow up, they will find this as a matter of course, and thus we will join most developed European countries where this is already a matter of course. I hope you will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u5	Thank you. I note two factual points, the first Mr Kučera, and after that Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u6	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would only react briefly to Mrs Kailová. Mr Kailová, of course through Madam President, do you know why business is also closed in these countries that you have appointed? The reasons are not because they have a strong trade union lobby with which you argued, but because the holidays are Catholic and the Catholic Church in these countries has very strong support. So the reasons you've given here are completely different from the reasons in the countries you've named here, that means Poland, Slovakia, Austria. The reasons are church holidays, not union celebrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u7	Thank you. Mr. Stanjura's microphone, please. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u8	Thank you for the floor. Well, that's one of those useless bills. It's no shame he waited a long time. I hope that today we will deal with it at first reading, and we will not burden the committees in second and third reading or plenary with this agenda, because if we take seriously the proposal that my fellow Members in the Senate, my party colleagues in the Senate, do not support it, so that there is no impression that all senators want this bill. It's a Senate majority proposal, no doubt promoted by social democracies, that's perfectly fine. But one modest question about the translator. How did you come up with the 200 meters of sales space? Who's gonna measure that? Whether you expect to increase the storage space at the expense of the sales area and what in those shopping centres where you might close if it went through, one, maybe the biggest store, but the other or many of them adapt the size of the sales area. So I want to ask why not 150, why not 250, why not 300, from what experience, from what analyses, from what hard facts you came out when you determined 200 meters of sales area, but especially who will be able to measure it. At the moment when the warehouse area increases slightly at the expense of the sales area, it will be allowed no longer, the number of people employed in these stores will not be allowed. And the argument that our Social Democrat senators want to raise society, and this bill of law, has led them to worship public holidays differently than by buying, is really misleading. We were saying today, our chairman said it at a press conference, raising parents, not a senate majority. I'm making a motion to dismiss the law. I'm sure I won't be alone, and I believe that when the debate is over, the motion to dismiss will find a majority and we won't have to go back to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u9	Thank you. Now, please contact Mr Karamazov's microphone with a proper application. Mr Karamazov is excused, so I will ask another in order and that is Mr Soukup. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask one fundamental question. In fact, who will help to reduce sales time in wholesalers? Surely some of the tribal workers who are satisfied with the minimum salary they have there will help. Will he help students, retirees, and seniors who come to work on their holidays to improve their jobs? I'm sure they don't. Nor will it help tribal workers, even those who welcome their low salaries every extra charge. Weekends and holidays are mostly called the most needed, young families, and so on. It's their choice. We shouldn't raise them, raise them in quotation marks, with all sorts of restrictions. [[14.30 hours]] As a weak one, I would also see the argument of the legislators that sales will shift to weekdays and the state will not lose to VAT and income tax. That's just not how it works at the store. As a member of the border, I must tell you in this context that it is very interesting how customers from Germany flock to us on the holidays, the numerous German holidays. That's a total invasion from time to time. In this context, I must also say and reject that we do not belong in a kind of cultural Europe by selling on holidays. And when I point it out and add it up, it seems to me that instead of restricting sales on holidays, for example, about consistent compliance with the working time fund, respectively. About the illegal enforcement of overtime work. In the arguments of those who support the reduction of supermarket operating hours on holidays, comparison with Germany and other advanced states dominates. It's limping, too. They too went through a time when they had to work hard at their current standard of living, at the holidays. That's the word yes. So far, according to Eurostat, we are at 80 percent of the European average per capita. In the purchasing power of the population, we are 22nd place in Europe. But let's compromise. I would see Easter Monday, December 25 as the first Christmas holiday, as well as the restriction from morning sales on Christmas day. Everything else I consider to be a luxury that we simply cannot afford at present. How do I act? If the vote is to be rejected at first reading, I will also vote in favour, otherwise I don't mind if the law gets into second reading, where I would add amendments to it in the spirit of what I was talking about, about the compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u11	Thank you, and before I invite another Member of Parliament, allow me to load one apology, Mr Radek Vondráček, who apologizes for today's meeting between 15 and 17 o'clock. And Mr Radek Vondráček votes with replacement card number 68. Now, please, Mr Bendl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u12	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me just a few words, because that is all this bill deserves. This is a classic proposal, when the state tries to step back between businessmen and customers and tries to impose some rules on the game, which, as President Stanjura suggested, will tend to be circled. Not only will there be no proper controls, but the market situation will create its own space. To ad 1. This will damage food production especially those companies that sell their products every day and offer them fresh every day. And it is also necessary to tell those who want to promote it so-called the bill. in the interests of the employees, that the employees will be affected on salary. Because it's perfectly logical that if a company makes some amount of money and people are forced to work like that, less money, even, because it's often better paid at holidays, just because it's a holiday, those people lose the opportunity to make money. You're gonna take that away from them? I think it's wrong. And for those of you who will regret those who are at work for Christmas - there are thousands who must be at work. Whether they are from the field of transport, energy, security and so on. I don't know why we should rip out one such subject. We can all feel sorry for them, but after all, when we have to go to work, we just have to. And organizing this here from the Chamber of Deputies doesn't seem wise to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u13	Thank you and please to the microphone next in order... [[Mr Bendl still wants to speak.]] Mr. Holeček will let you go. Absolutely. In fact, Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. I set you up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u14	Thank you. I completely forgot to propose rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u15	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. Mr. Radim Holeček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have another proposal in the spirit of today's rediscovered and re-established social engineering. State recipes for happy life, bans, orders and fines over free will are particularly preferred by colleagues from social democracy. There's no reasonable reason why state power should strictly incriminate business opening hours. It is in their discretion whether they are open or not on the day in question. Moreover, categorization by square metre is a very controversial intervention in the functioning of the market, probably also from the point of view of European Union law. The argument of the petitioner about the reconciliation of family and working life sounds very nice to our ears. But the market always behaves its way in practice. Although the employee will not have to work on the days you have determined, there will also certainly be a reduction in his salary, as he has so far been counting on the employer for the performance of his work and the associated benefit. In the worst case scenario, he won't have to work in other days, because he simply loses his job, given that his lack of sales will make the employer want to save on the labor force. In short, don't keep trying to get into people's free choices. I'm the father of two little children, and I know best when to go to the playground with my family and when to shop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u17	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Vondráček's de facto opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not happen very often that I follow up on the contributions rather from the right side. However, I would like to add to the questions that have already been raised here, on the petitioner, for another polite question. It happens to me that I get to the mall by bus, because it's easier, from the city to the edge. And since I don't have any other time, with my kids, I confess, I admit the low culture, we go to the movies. We go to a movie theater, which is usually in that shopping mall, which should then be largely closed. But the cinemas are open, as far as I know, even at some of the times that your proposal mentions. And then here I have to ask, "What about the truckers?" They deserve a day off, too, but you don't remember them. What about the multiplex employees? So when I add the vague limit of 200 square meters to this, I ask really politely what path you have taken in creating this very proposal, which I think is not anchored and is not legislatively happy, and I am probably presuming, in my comment, how I will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u19	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Beznoska's microphone. Mr. Seďa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm going to join the crowd of those who want to reject this law at first reading, because it's a typical example of a law that's completely useless. The experiments, the plans, how we still have some ambition to regulate people's lives, to regulate the conditions of their lives, it's just a classic case, this, I'm definitely not identified with it. Each trader in this Republic should have the right to decide where and at what times he will sell his goods. The bill is also discriminatory because it divides employees into two groups. Those who will be employed in stores with a sales space of up to 200 square meters, and those who will be in larger stores. How, then, will they come to this? Not to mention that it also has the salary implications we were talking about. I'm just gonna remind you that there's a lot of shift work in these big stores, whereas the little ones are gonna have to be there all the time. Because that's not where shifts work. So a priori even your focus is from the logic of the matter unfair. I would also like to know who decided, because only seven holidays are defined in the law, why we chose these holidays. [[14.40 hours]] And one final point. If you look at businessmen's opening hours at Christmas, for example, it is clear to you that businessmen can solve opening hours even without the benefit of any law. So the Czech rule of law is useless, and I repeat this here regularly, very much. Let's not add one more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u21	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Seďa's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u22	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, as well as many of you, I do not like too much regulation, on the other hand, unlike many of you, I know why senators are proposing to limit selling time. I remember how the sales period spread after November 1989, when it first spread to Saturday afternoons, then Sundays and then holidays. That is why I welcome this bill. The Chamber of Commerce and, in particular, the Trade and Tourism Union does not agree with the above view, but I cannot agree with their claim that the law is an unjustified intervention by the State in the private relations of business entities. honourable Members, those of us who visit regularly neighbouring countries, particularly Austria, Germany, would then have to despise these democratic countries precisely against their market regulation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Trade and Tourism Union, please do not look at your employees only under the scrutiny of your turnovers and your profits and stop haunting the decline in gross domestic product or redundancies. The reality is that it is because of low wages that you have long-term problems for anyone, and especially for the young generation, to employ at all, and it is your tribal employees who are paying for this policy. Government and legislators, i.e. Parliament of the Czech Republic has the right, and I think even the duty, to defend the interests of employees, including employees in services and in trade. For this reason, I support this bill and its release for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u23	Now with the de facto Mr. Foldyna. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u24	Thank you, I'll fill my colleague in Seďa one thing. In Germany, no one deals with why they don't go to the store on Sundays, to the wholesale store, why the markets are closed. I think it's a prosperous economy, and if you look at the behavior of people in Germany, you'll find that a whole range of things, relationships between employees and employers are much better and on a higher level. I think it is necessary to step by step correct those things that arose here in the 1990s, when some of my ODS colleagues are criticizing us here from regulation. Yes, you started building that Komsomol capitalism without any laws. You had such a motto that it takes lawyers to step outside the economists to turn off the lights for a while, and now it's time to turn on the lights again for a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u25	Thank you, and with another factual request from Mr Beznoska, Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm really just a brief response to my colleague, Foldyna. It is not for us to shut down the shops that raise people to spend the holiday or Sunday in order to meditate, to enjoy a life together. Leave the free choice to the people. The moment it turns out that society is raised, mature, so it simply won't go to those shops on holidays and Sundays, and businessmen will naturally shorten opening hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u27	Thank you, and I will ask Mr Kučera for another de facto mike. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I'll ask my colleagues to keep their voices down. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u28	Thank you, too. Just a brief response to my previous speaker, Mr. Foldyna. Mr Foldyna, by means of Madam President, you are in favour of an amendment to the law that your fellow trade unionists in the Senate have fought through. I think that if unionists were to do what they're really supposed to do, it wouldn't have to happen to this novel at all. I mean, unionists can negotiate the protection of the employees you're talking about with employers in collective agreements. I really consider this to be an unnecessary amendment, which once again focuses on one narrow group of employees, and I think that approving amendments based on lobbying, even if they are unionists, so on the basis of union lobby, I find it very unfortunate. Let unionists focus on what unions are really based on, i.e. to protect workers' rights with their employers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u29	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone duly registered by Mrs Černochová, Mrs Semelová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think we're repeating ourselves a little bit in these arguments. There have been a number of words that it is an intervention in the freedom of business, that when anyone is open, a businessman should decide for himself, and it is not part of the state's decision-making practice. Here and from the experience we already have in the Czech Republic, we can confirm that limited working hours e.g. Christmas goes without the law. There are a number of business chains that shorten or close their Christmas holidays. And it goes without the law, so why are we back in the role of some social engineers? Moreover, the bill divides traders into two categories according to the size of the sales area and introduces unequal market conditions, as well as logically divides business employees into two categories. Here I was very amused by the performance by my colleague Kailová, who I otherwise appreciate, and we have very good relationships, but her theorem about what the mothers are going to do here, that they will not, at least their children, see the role models in the parents who go shopping, so I would like to ask her through the Vice-President, if it is about being employees on holidays with their families, so I would like to ask the honourable Member if they are less than 200 metres of business for her, or shouldn't they therefore have the same demands as those on which this law should have an impact? The Act continues to separate from the proposed regulation of petrol stations, pharmacy, stores at airports and railway stations - again the unequal position of traders and employees. There is a lot of talk about food stores in this context, but it is not just them, it is also hobby markets, and as we know, Čech are a nation of handymen and you can imagine when you will need to get something for your garden work in the summer season and you will not be able to because the store will be closed. Or spring. I am also surprised that this proposal is presented by Senator Bublan, whom I remember in the last parliamentary term, when he was my colleague and in the Security Committee, where we often discussed the situation in Prague's Sapa Market. And I want to ask if the senator can answer me the question of how Sapa will be judged under this law when there are several operators there, several entrepreneurs on a separate I.C. So let's close the tunnel, close the bauhas, baumax, but Sapa's gonna be in all the days that you're proposing to limit here, so Sapa's gonna keep working. Doesn't that seem strange to you? The level of salesmen's wages is rather lower and it is the holiday days when many of them can earn extra money. And I really do not believe that in this respect these employees would have the desire and will for this change, as some colleagues here have told us to discuss this matter with the unions. It is not clear from the proposal either, and I do not see any reason why other business entities should not be restricted in this case. [[14.50 hours]] Many other institutions work on holidays. They are television stations, radios, news editors, public transport drivers have already been mentioned, they are security agencies, power plants, but the law taxatically selects only some, limited area of 200 meters, which is again something that does not create a level playing field for business in the Czech Republic. Again another nonsense which is in the proposal: The law taxatively selects only seven of the twelve public holidays. I think we agree that Christmas and Easter can be understood. But it's not clear to any of us what keys the next holiday was determined by. It has also been said here, and I do not want to repeat that the law should not determine what people should and should not do in their free time. It would be lovely if they spent their free time resting, with their children, with their family. But that's not what this law will do to anyone, it won't. This is another manifestation of social engineering and the efforts of the state to re-educationalize the habits and morals of citizens. Realistically, people won't be in stores, but that doesn't mean they're going to pursue those activities that we might want them to do, or that's what Senator Bublan would like to do. Moreover, it plays a rather important role, and I do not know if you know that according to the latest statistics and public information, public interest in shopping on weekends is falling, so this also shows that the market can solve a lot of things on these issues itself, as well as entrepreneurs who, for paying taxes to the state, for doing the work that is needed for all of us, should decide what they will sell and at what times, decide only themselves. Not us, with all due respect for parliamentarianism in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u31	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Fiedler, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u32	Good afternoon, thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm not going to make arguments that have been made here since a number of previous speakers, I'm just looking at the board. Now there's a colleague, Kolovratník, and a colleague, Koskuba. There's been a question several times about how it's actually 200 square meters. I admit I'm a little surprised that the translator who's here doesn't need to explain it to us, defend the law, defend why it's there. I don't know if he's waiting for the final word. I would have expected a bit of a debate on that, so let's get this straightened out about the area restrictions. I believe that it is a bit late to comment on this in the final words, and I therefore call on the petitioner to comment on this in time, so that we can still have some debate and controversy on this in the discussion, as is the case with the argument that this concerns establishments over 200 square meters, why not the small ones. I will not repeat the arguments that have already been made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u33	Thank you. I'm registering two factual points, now three factual points. Mr Kučera and Mr Benda Vácha be prepared with the first microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd probably illustrate the absurdity of the law on those 200 meters. Let me explain why it's 200 meters. 200 meters is because we have 10 fingers. If we had six fingers, it's 180 or 240 meters. That's the only reason it's 200 meters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u35	Thank you. Mr. Kučera's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to join my speaker, colleague Fiedler, and I would like to call on the petitioner to answer the questions that have been raised here. To answer them in the general debate, because I would like to draw attention, and I think that, too, the promoter feels that there have been proposals to reject this law at first reading. One such proposal was submitted by me and the TOP 09 in the discussion two or three months ago, when we have already acted here. That is, allow us, Mr Speaker, through Madam President, so that we can also respond to your answers at first reading and before we reject the law, and get off in the general debate. The questions here are clear, I will not repeat them, from the most absurd to pragmatic, or I will be happy to supplement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u37	Thank you. I'm gonna need another de facto mike, please. That's what Mr. Benda comes with. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u38	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I saw Senator Bublan reporting. I'm just going to fill in the questions that have been raised here, one more. Why aren't there pubs? I think it's much worse on a public holiday in terms of raising children to go to a pub than to a shopping mall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u39	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Mihola's priority right, Mrs Semelová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I do not want to stir up the atmosphere because I listen to speeches from the left, from the right - indeed the views are diametrically different. Obviously, we can't agree across the House. Europe cannot agree either. In some countries the selling time is limited and regulated, and in some countries it is not. I'd say it's about halfway there. But there are also countries where this restriction does not apply only to public holidays, but also to Sundays and also to those countries operating normally and I would not say that they are less market than the Czech Republic or other countries rejecting this regulation. In this complex of opinions, I would like to say that KDU-ČSL sees this proposal as a contribution to better combining working and family life. There's been a talk about salesmen. I went to the nearest Tesco in Brno-King Poli. I went over the wreath of shops and asked the ladies who sell there, if they're happy, if they're enjoying it, filling it up, or if they're paying off the Sundays. The vast majority, actually, almost all except one said that they wouldn't like to be there on Sundays, that they're definitely not being overpaid. And one who had a different opinion explained it without any further discussion of the family situation, the family reasons, we may have an idea of what it was. Countries such as Germany, Austria, France, Benelux countries do not really appear to me to be less market or to me limited in any way to the Czech Republic. I talk to these people when I'm visiting. No one was talking about a yoke of personal freedom or the end of liberalism or anything like that. As far as the petitioners are concerned, someone always submits and someone joins. I would simply point to my colleagues on the right. I really just want to be decent. I don't want to rub it in. He was here a few years ago, I don't know if he was filed, a proposal from TOP 09 and the starosta. I don't care who leaned on it more, which part of this party, but it can be traced on the Internet. It's just a fact. As far as critical attitudes to this view are concerned, I also join some previous speakers, because I, too, do not have a clear key to choosing holidays, why some are concerned and some are not. St. Václav is supposed to be involved, not Jan Hus. There really is not properly explained and even the area of 200 square meters, which is bordering, there is no analysis or explanation, which I would like to see in the proposal. In any case, we are prepared to support this proposal for second reading, but I am sure that without further work on it, the proposal is not ready and is not as good as we would have imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u41	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Vácha's de facto opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u42	Thank you. I have to respond. Of course, I also went around the shops and asked the salesmen, and my experience is completely different. The sales girls at the stores told me they'd get more money if they went to work on Sunday, that they'd get twice as much money. So, Prime Minister TOP 09, through your gentle mouth to our Madam President, perhaps in Tesco you have been going around the shops up to 200 square meters, these are the small shops where the vendors don't get extras. [[correct KDU-ČSL]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u43	Thank you. Please get to Mrs. Semelová's microphone. For the record, Mr. Senator, I have his application in order, but I can't give you priority rights under the Rules of Procedure. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u44	Thank you. Let me also respond to some of the comments that have been made here. In the Czech Republic, there are about 800,000 people employed in business, and many of them are concerned with the proposed regulation, which should cover improving their working conditions, as well as aligning working and family life. So this is one way to help. They should therefore be entitled to leave even during the holidays and in these professions, so they should devote themselves to the family. Please note that a large proportion of these employees are women. According to surveys, 70 percent of supermarket employees would welcome holiday leave. They complain that they do not have time for their own purchases, that their families and especially their children suffer from workload. The arguments that are mentioned here above all by the ODS that it has a bill, virtually. the state of raising people, determining what they should and should not do that citizens already have enough complications. But it's the complications that the ODS and TOP 09 governments have caused here, which would like to determine what employees have to do, that they have to do from can't see to see for a few rocks and they have no time off. At the same time, I find it very smiling on their part that this law prevents workers from earning money. Please, they should above all have the salary so that they are not forced to work on holidays, on Sundays, on overtime. And I'm saying it sounds smiling on the ODS side, or TOP 09 for the very reason that these parties have put in place all the possible cuts that have forced employees to do at a time when they might be free. There's an argument here that there's a profession where employees have to be at work. Yes, I admit it. They're doctors, they're bus drivers, trams, etc. But why force employees who don't have to be at work at this time, why force them to work at that time? With regard to ODS argument: Leave them a free choice. But the point is, they don't have a free choice. They're forced to work on the holidays, on Sundays, in the supermarkets, in the wholesale shops. Personally, I think that the holidays should also be extended when they will not have to be in these stores, and they should also be Saturdays and Sundays. As for the other argument that unionists can actually get to negotiate working time restrictions in a collective agreement, thanks to your governments, in many places, many wholesalers have created such situations that people were afraid to even start trade unions because they could be kicked out of work. And unfortunately, the fear remains to this day. So let's do something together to improve the working conditions for these people who are employed in business at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u45	Thank you. Now, I beg you, Mr Zahradník, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u46	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mrs. Semelová wants to lecture us now. I think they were doing work Saturdays again, we all remember that, they didn't care if people could rest or not. About the part-time job. After all, every worker knowingly and freely signs a contract of employment with his employer and can decide whether he wants to comply with the clauses of the contract and adopt a regulation to work on the holiday or not. Second, the area of 200 square meters, that's about three quarters of this room. And then to the list of the holidays. There's a lot, there's even Easter Monday. But, for God's sake, why isn't God's Easter Hour, the greatest of the Christian festivals of the year? Why isn't boží's throw there? I don't really get it, and I can't understand that. Probably the Socialists and with them the Communists want to regulate us here again. And here's what Ronaldo Reagan says: when something moves, it has to be taxed. If it's still moving, it has to be regulated. And when it finally stops moving, it has to be subsidized. Well, I hope so, Mr. Socialists and Communists, you don't want to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u47	Thank you. Please, another duly signed up, and this is Mr Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u48	Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. Originally, I wanted to say something else, but to change the flow of ideas, Mrs Marta Semelová, beautifully red-dressed, provoked me. I'll lighten it up. [[Mrs Semel has a red jacket.]] Madam President, for God's sake, how can you blame the right-wing ODS and TOP 09 for forcing people to have to work? I've been here several times with my colleagues in an ideal conflict, but here I am clearly on their side. You don't know that we have a code of employment, that we have clear provisions on extra charges, about how much overtime a year can be? I don't know about you, but I myself employed a relatively small team of about 20 people for about 12 years, and all of these provisions had to be followed damn well for the sake of the union. So don't be mad at me, but I have to say no to your arguments. And, in general, on the debate that we are now leading to this law, I want to express my prevailing liberal view of this matter. I think I can also speak for my colleagues and colleagues in the YES movement. When we discussed this at the club, that's where the opinion prevailed. Please let people decide when and where they want to go, whether they want to shop or not. And the arguments that families should rather be together, that they should play sports or go to culture, are not to order them to do so and force them to do so by some restrictions and regulations. Okay, let's talk about promoting culture, promoting sports, etc. But let us not forbid when to go, and let us not disturb their free decisions. I'm actually convinced of that. I think the motion to dismiss the law is correct and reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u49	Thank you. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Koskuba. Mr Laudát will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u50	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can briefly follow up on what I said here before the expensive time when the general debate on this bill began, and I am not ashamed to suggest that I am here to support him, although we are again labeling ourselves, the left, the right, so although I am from the left, I am not going to support him. I just can't. I said the reasons here. In addition, I find it quite easy to play as my previous speaker, Mr. Honored Collo-Kolovratník, who precisely indicated the view I have of this matter. And I don't think it's against left-wing thinking. [[15.10 hours]] It should not at all be against the thinking of a Member of this country. Because we often discuss before the election that the main thing is for people to have a job, and I confess that in no way am I going to take people's jobs if they have it and if they want to do it. Indeed, my colleague Kolovratník took some of my thoughts because here he indicated what the previous speaker, an honored colleague Semelová, said. We, folks, at proper and extraordinary meetings in this Parliament accept mountains of law. I don't know if you've seen the latest statistical review where we're a record season in the number of laws discussed in half the term. Unfortunately, we think we're doing good by these laws. At times, however, let us admit that we are merely doing so and only legal chaos in this country. And here are really laws, such as labor laws, union laws, so when we have to adopt laws about whether they can agree, in trade unions, to agree on whether or not they will be open, we should at the same time admit that they are probably a bad labour code and that there is probably a bad trade union law, and we should first change these laws, rather than order something, even a narrow part of our people. There's been a lot of questions about the law maker. So I will no longer speak and explain why I am not a follower of similar half-steps, and I apologize, he is half-stepping, because, as my colleague Černochová said, it really concerns only someone. So I want to ask you why it doesn't concern others. I mentioned a public transport employee here, I mentioned a classic example where I'm looking at an abandoned night bus that rides the tree on Christmas Eve on our street and doesn't drive anybody. So why don't we tell you when you're operating here by ordering our families "family, you'll be sitting on your ass at home so much and you won't be going anywhere because it's that and that holiday"? All of this was said here. Why doesn't it concern other stores, other professions? And so I could go on. I was also interested in how someone reached 200 square meters. Now that you've come to this, dear speakers, I must have laughed when I heard that it wouldn't be about the stores at the medical facilities. I can see why. Because some trade unionists who then became politicians, of course, call other professions, which is paradoxical enough in capitalism, a mission. And you know that this is especially about the profession I represent, as if it weren't a profession like any other. However it is so, so yes, we have a mission, so we will operate without regulation 365 days a year, and so it is logical that we will have open stores there. However, I can assure you that I know only a few hospitals where, given the situation of our health care store, the prevailing 200 square meters. I guess you'll understand that in the discussion that it's completely necessary. That's what I'm really interested in is that you're talking about the fact that stores can work at airports. We don't have that many international airports, but I can honestly admit that since you're preparing the bill, I would welcome a completely different change. If you could order these stores to work 24 hours a day at the Ruzyn airport. I don't know how fellow senators, what class they fly, and whether they go through the VIP lounge, but we simple citizens who fly charter flights, we go to Ruzyne after midnight, and I can assure you that almost nothing works there. And I note that every passenger in Ruzyn pays an additional airport fee. As you can see, and the shops there also belong to private people, some stores are not open, even if they might. Then I don't understand why we have to order others to do it. There was talk of Baumax, Baumarkt, etc. I'd like to calm the petitioner down, and I hope we're not on TV, on the radio, so I don't advertise that he has a store where I should already have the right, if they had it, on the Hornbach diamond or platinum card, he's closed on certain holiday days without anyone ordering him to do so. That's just the way it is, and I'm grateful for it, and I'm happy for those people, but I understand that's up to their mutual agreement. On the other hand, I was impressed when I succumbed to the insistence that we should live and meditate as a family, so I was quite surprised when last Christmas we walked through the Old Town of Prague and the Small Town of Prague, so I was surprised - we always had the habit of visiting the cribs - and wonder to the world, except for one of the churches on our usual route were closed. I don't want to dissect here, if the church has limited working hours or is afraid of thieves, I don't mean to question that, but there was no place to meditate. So I was grateful we could at least buy a sausage. I understand it's not a 200-square-foot buffet, but it scares me if someone else doesn't. And so I could continue with the details. And please, why would my club be mad at me that I would be willing to vote in favour of rejecting this law at first reading is another reason. I don't really see the serenity of the selected holidays. Maybe the petitioners who came here with the law without consulting us at least in advance, maybe they'll just explain it to us. But as far as I know, you're planning another state holiday, and it's supposed to be called Big Friday. I'm happy for you. I'm telling you in advance that I'm not going to be for the holiday, for the simple reason that I've been here for years, I'm still telling you that so many medical personnel are running low, that we're going to stand in the hospital before the problem of who's actually going to serve and what we're going to pay for it, because he's going to pay every holiday for those businesses that aren't so regulated, that means financial costs. Anyway, we're gonna be amending the law again, 'cause somebody's gonna think we're gonna put Good Friday in there? Ladies and gentlemen, I would much rather you first figure out whether or not Good Friday will be, and if Good Friday is, whether it is worthy to be included in this regulatory law or not, and if it is, then perhaps rather than amending it, it is better to postpone it and then say to ourselves, we will vote on eight limited days. And that's probably all I had to say about it. I apologize to the petitioners, but until it concerns most people - and I would probably not vote for it to be about most people, because we are people who are free to make decisions, and I think that the state should only do regulation where the real interests of most people require it, and not just certain small parts. That is all I have to say, and I wish you a pleasant decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u51	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr Laudát, Mr Kalousek will prepare and then Mr Senator Bublan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, when you lose your patience again about failing to discuss the important points of this House or what you have as real priorities, and not those pseudo-priorities that we are witnessing here, then complain about yourselves. If it's really a priority for you to tell people when to go shopping, and entrepreneurs when they can be open and when they can't be open, and that's selectively still, then it's really bad with this government. You were supposed to put significant market power in there. This is also another hit of your coalition, and then don't be surprised. I hope you won't at least do it tomorrow and that we'll be dealing with an important law, and that's the state budget. [[15.20 hours]] This is where I have to respond to my colleague Mihola. You know, always arguing about what suits me, or what's somewhere... In the world, you will always find the whole spectrum of how they approach issues. I'm worried that there's always someone out there who sees something and thinks we have to apply this here at all costs. Of course, ten times collected pluses in completely different cultures, in completely different systems, may never be a plus, but on the contrary a minus. I'm afraid the Benelux is a little differently set up, it has a different service system, people also have other customs. And I don't understand why you want to bend something that works here today. Now, I'm going to take exactly the sentence of President Mihola when he asked who's having fun at the shops this weekend. Well, of course, I'd be surprised if the only salesgirl or salesman in the big stores said they liked it. Nobody likes it, because of course everyone has some families, some hobbies, etc. However, there is no greater evidence than this presentation and support especially from the social democracy of how deeply you are separated from the real world, from the real needs of people. My experience is that there are very often people in those stores who turn every crown. Extras and basic wages, extras on weekends and holidays are quite an important part of their income. And they don't switch whether or not they have time to pay attention to someone. For them, the crucial question is whether or not money is made. I don't know if you know that there's a growing group of socially weak people in this country, and you're actually touching this group. Not only in the area of those who go to the shops to work, but also those who will probably go there to these stores more and more to buy cheaper food. That's how it's set up in developed countries, and I'd be quite surprised if things were different for us and for the future. The proposed proposal is all the more ridiculous, from my point of view, that you do not regret people in smaller shops less than 200 meters and you regret over 200 meters. Obviously, there will be a paid authority again, you will probably expand a number of other controllers to a constantly shrinking group of those who create values that pay taxes, and you will refocus. Something similar to how one city policeman on Barrandov measured by metro, whether the distance of the parking car is really five meters or five fifty. Well, if that's what you're up to, it's a completely sick idea of how the world is supposed to look and work. So I don't know in the name of who you're putting this on. You're attacking socially weaker groups of people. Apparently, multimillionaires do not go to cashiers and to supply large-selling premises. I don't know if the submitters say that people buy according to real ideas. It wasn't us who cheered that household consumption was growing. And if the petitioners or processors of the law approach this responsibly - perhaps I underestimate them and get answers here - they would hear something from the shops about impulsive purchases. These are purchases that a person makes at a given moment in a given place. And you'll be surprised, he's dazzled, for example. advertising, current mood or the dimensions of a more empty shopping cart. All of this works and works very efficiently. And he's gonna buy that thing at the moment, even if he doesn't need it to live, and more times if he doesn't have time, mood, money or half-empty shopping cart, or the feeling that he's still empty, he's not gonna buy it anymore. Of course, today you feel like you're off the hook, that the growth of the economy is endless, but it's not gonna happen. And then you'll tell me how something doesn't work. You might find yourself lucky enough to find yourself once again in the fall of the economy by some middle-right or right-wing government, and you're going to interpret it as it was in the past, how wonderful it all worked for you. I quite understand Mrs Semelová's arguments. You're trying to raise a new person with more modern methods here, I don't know what era, capitalist or contemporary postglobalization, postmodern is definitely not. They spent over four decades trying to raise a socialist conscious person, and then you know how it all ended. I don't know that today they're upset that people pay for their wages and, in their own way, if I don't mention social aspects, they volunteer to make money for business. I don't know how this is equal to the fact that since the first months of their reign, communists have been scurrying and chasing people like cattle on different brigades, chasing them to do so-called. in action Z, they chased them to go to heavy industry, and I don't know, Saturdays weren't watched because this convenience, which they had in capitalist countries for a long time, came to us, I think, sometime in the early 1970s. Definitely not before. Therefore, labor efforts, weekends unknown weekends, holidays unholidays, didn't matter. And it wasn't about selling, it was often slavish physical labor. And they weren't the ones they sent to the camps. So I'm not really impressed by the touching care of this political party. I'm surprised that KDU officials here say they want to release the law for second reading. They do not seem to mind that some important religious festivals are not there, while others are. I think it would still be logical that religious holidays are to be honored, therefore it would be free for believers, atheists could work, for them it is not a holiday. I can still understand that. And I don't understand why atheists are simply celebrating the holidays with some activities. I would strongly recommend that we reject this law at first reading. I do not know why such proposals are to be dealt with by committees, spent unnecessary time doing so, looking for any amendments, whether or not this will spread. The Social Democrats' taste of programming a 21st-century social person is so irresistible that if we approve this leg shoved into an open door, it's only a matter of time before they come up with the idea that they want to close on all Sundays. I don't know if they've downloaded this image from their website or if it's still there. I'm not a regular visitor to the social democracy pages. Therefore, I call on you to deal with this law as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible. In addition to making life difficult for those who need to earn each crown, and it is up to them to choose, often subject to social pressure, you will complicate it to a lot of people who have some rhythm of life, working somewhere where it really is quite essential for them in terms of time, to buy comfort just because of their work activities on holidays. And I don't know why you want to complicate their lives. [[15.30 hours]] So briefly I would like to challenge you: Leave the vendors, leave the people alone and harass them as little as possible. If you want to spare people a lot, let's agree to write a law that bans political activity on weekends so that at least at this time people can be at peace with us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u53	Thank you. There is now one factual remark from Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u54	Thank you for your word. I would follow up on my colleague, Laudát, more or less, on two things. The first is when my colleague Laudát here talked about what the Communists brought us in the Z and the work Saturdays, they still brought us a beautiful thing to regulate the selling time. On Tuesday came the meatloaf, on Thursday mixed goods. So it was pretty clear. However, that's not exactly why I got off or why I wanted to get off. I would also follow up on the fact that my colleague Laudát has already said this, what are the priorities of this government coalition. We're dealing with a point where it was clear that, first of all, there would be quite a big debate with him. Secondly, it is truly socialist - with permission - nonsense. I don't know if this is really the priority of this government coalition, but apparently it's going to be the first point in today's negotiations. And I would like to point out that we interrupted the absolutely fundamental amendment of Act No 14 days ago at first reading. 114, the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which is the most important thing in the area of nature conservation in this parliamentary term. And this item of the program, this amendment will not get into the agenda this week at all. But here we are dealing with socialist nonsense - selling time in retail and wholesale. So I would once again call on the government coalition to level up its priorities, and the next time she calls on the obstruction of the opposition, she realizes that she's the one who's causing the obstruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u55	Really, please - Mr. Mr. Šidlo. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would like to inform my colleague Kučera that the meatland came for us on Tuesdays and Thursdays for groceries. No one's coming to the village in 25 years! And these people are completely out of food! And here I want to respond to one more thing. We chased people to work, that's right, and they also went with their initiative to build a new republic after the war. But the situation is that today, basically, these people don't have a job. And what they've built, in 25 years, you've taken it apart handsomely! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u57	Now Mr Kalousek has the floor with a proper application, after which Senator Bublan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u58	It's so nice to hear that someone's been better after all. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment very briefly on this bill. Surely you know the story of the Book of Books, when Mojžíš is missing from Sinai and holds the Ark of the Covenant in his hands and says, izraelit Israelites, I have good news for you; I have negotiated the twenty commandments of Hospodin with the Lord for ten; for example, I have spoken to him the nonsense that he will be there "Help the day of the feast over 200 meters of the store" so it is not there. On the other hand, I'm sorry, you can't fornicate. It's kind of in the Scriptures. Six thousand years have passed and Mr Bublan comes in and says, "That's a shame, this regulatory standard shouldn't have gone out, and I think we should put it in modern legal order, and we'll put it there, push it through, even if no one really wants it. So the question is, who wants it? So customers don't want it, they want to decide when to go shopping. Traders don't want it either, because they want to decide freely when they want to be open or when they want to be closed, that's just their decision. Strangely enough, employees don't want to, either, because they're gonna miss out on a pretty good payout for extra shifts. After all, even the temps lose some of the opportunities for a good profit, the temps mostly from the students. Who, then, will benefit in a fundamental way? Let us at least look for someone for whom this will mean a clear benefit. I hope I won't be charged with paranoia if I say we find one such group. These are large bakery capacities. Bakers will make a lot of money on this, because, as well as known chains and stores over 200 metres of sales area, they want fresh pastries every morning. It's the feast of the unholiday. So when it's open on the holiday, the bakery line has to pay an extra shift the night before, so the next morning there's fresh bread on the counters. If it's closed, the customer's gonna buy the bread for two days, and the baker's gonna save the extra shift with extras on the extra line. So if we want to support large bakery capacities, let's vote yes. I don't think I want to support them, which is why I support the motion to dismiss. I don't want to be accused of paranoia, I don't want to say that the Minister of Finance ordered this proposal, but at least he should sign up here for a conflict of interest and say: Yes, I have a conflict of interest here, because if this law is passed, I will save a few shifts with night and extraordinary extras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u59	Now I have two factual points. First Mr Opálka, then Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, he's someone else who'd be comfortable with that. These are the smaller businessmen who pushed the big chains, in some cases completely destroyed. The paradox is that our right is mountainous for businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but the entry of large chains has essentially killed not only small shops but also domestic production. Because foreign labour is imported through goods that have been manufactured elsewhere, and it complicates the situation for us. Of course, this can't go back, that's the world, so it goes on. But then the right has to change its mind - does it encourage home-grown businessmen or transnational chains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u61	Mr. Hájek. After that, two more factual points, Mr Laudát and Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u62	Mr President, colleagues, I would only briefly respond to my colleague Kalousek. I like the way he started with Mojžíš and ended up with Babiš. That's nice. That's what I have to learn here, too, that it's really all Babiš's fault. But as for the bakery, I also go shopping, and I have to say that my colleague Kalousek probably doesn't go shopping anymore, because I think 80 percent of the pastry is now made out of frozen semi-finished products, and the stores are baking it themselves. So, Mr Kalousek, when you go - through the President - to shop sometime, look at what you've got here, whether it's a frozen semi-finished product or a bagel from Penam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u63	Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the logic of what has been said here, we should eliminate the large agricultural cooperatives, because this would also create more room for small farmers. We could eliminate large chains, for example, electronics stores to feed on small ones. Is that really what you mean? Where's the line where you're going? Don't Czech manufacturers supply to these large stores as well? I don't know, when I go to Tesco, I see almost everywhere a battery of racks with church sausages. I don't know. I think that nowadays, to distinguish and impose on people how many times something that isn't even on the market. You guys had this economy planned for so long, you couldn't even plan toilet paper. As the late actor and comedian Dvořák once said, maybe it was because you planned it on your head, not on three dots. So I don't understand what you're saying here. But it really is almost a comical suggestion. Really, let's reject the proposal. It's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u65	Yes. prosit, Mr Kalousek, a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u66	Just a very brief answer to small businessmen. My uncle is a small businessman, an anti-communist whose family the communists have been destroying, including his business for many years, and he's been selling at 203 square meters of sales space, so I'm reporting a conflict of interest here, because he would, of course, have gotten into that regulation by now. But even the tradesmen, far below 200 meters, are against it. And do you know why they are against, through the President, my colleague? Because these are people who confess human freedom, and there is no human freedom without economic freedoms. And, of course, there are a lot of standards that necessarily some economic behavior has to regulate. But every unnecessary regulation of every economic freedom in its effect limits human freedom. And that bothers the businessmen who wouldn't be affected. It doesn't just matter to the Communists on all the political sides of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u67	Mr. Senator Bublan has the floor now, followed by Mr. Karamazov.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, just to cut back on the 200 sqm debate and maybe even the selected holiday days. I know it's kind of a neural point. Even in the Senate, there was a big discussion about why 200 square meters where we got it. We took it in French lawmaking. It's the way they do in France. That's where they set it at 200 meters, and that's where the ban really differs -- no ban. So it's written by French law. Of course, we could also choose the number of employees or some other criterion. But it's very difficult, and maybe if you put it into second reading and you have a better idea, I'd like to lean towards it. But it's hard to find a solution. The point is, these little stores, they don't get the law to keep them open. They can also be closed. But most of the time, it's family stores where these people choose whether they want to be free or open. So the choice is still there, whereas the employees can't choose it at large stores. They're unlucky, they just have to go to work, and there are cases where they refuse, then they're out of work completely. Then on to the holidays. I am also not inclined to do so, but in the end it was declared that Easter Monday, which is a pagan holiday, had little to do with Easter as a Christian holiday. But even this law was somewhat conceived for some perhaps quiet or weak approval of supermarket representatives, and they were more inclined to do it on Easter Monday. I don't know why. They've got it figured out that it's better for them somehow. But even here is a certain space for us - or for you to have the opportunity to change the holidays somehow, reduce them to an even smaller number, or maybe even increase to the eleven or twelve public holidays, how many we have. It's such a tough choice. We tried to have such classic Christian holidays represented there and then there were holidays that emphasized or resembled Czech statehood. So these two categories are partially represented there. So that's just it, then maybe I'd say the rest in the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u69	Thank you. Mr Kučera, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u70	We haven't heard a whole series of answers from the senator. I might recall another point that is quite important, and I think it is absolutely essential for smaller cities. Here in the bill, it says it doesn't apply to pharmacies, which is, of course, right. Today, the pharmacy is serving on Saturdays and Sundays in smaller cities, where there are no large hospitals, where it serves the pharmacy from at least eight a.m. to eight a.m. to eight a.m. when the shopping center is open. I'd ask the senator if he gives me a moment - probably not, he doesn't really care about this treatise - what it's going to be like with the drugstores at the shopping centers. [[turning to the newsstand]] So the shopping mall will be closed because it's over 200 meters away, and if only one pharmacy will be opened in that facility, or if the pharmacy closes, too. I think that's a very important thing. It sounds trivial at the moment, but when you imagine the situation in a small town - tens of thousands of cities, on Saturdays and Sundays people went to the pharmacy to Kaufland, to Teska or other shops. We're gonna shut down this hypercrime today - what's gonna happen to the pharmacy? Should we lock her up, too? Or do you have something else in mind, Senator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u71	Mr Fiedler, Mr Koskuba after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly indeed. I was really anxious to see what Senator Bublan's reasoning as a translator would be. What was told to me here merely convinced me that he himself is not entirely convinced of the correctness and arguments of this amendment. He doesn't have to agree with me, of course. I confess that I have only now read a little more closely the explanatory report accompanying the House Press 275. I recommend it, colleagues and colleagues, to all of you. I don't think there's any justification. It's very steep, you won't waste much time on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u73	Mr Koskuba and after him another factual one - Mrs Černochová. Before the Member arrives, I will apologize to Mr Farský - I will extend his leave until 16 o'clock. Mr Černoch apologizes from the 15th to the end of the negotiations for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, just in a nutshell. I am glad that the problem of large shopping centres has been repeatedly raised here, which now often form a satellite city centre, and there are plenty of small entrepreneurs from this point of view, who, if the giant is not open, will lose their jobs because customers will not. That's a look I'd like to hear how it's going to be handled. For example, I am sincerely glad that a branch of Czech Post grew up in our shopping centre, so in addition to the pharmacy, one has Saturday, Sunday, because - don't be offended - many of us have a job, when we simply get home on a holiday, when we can do our business. But I should, ladies and gentlemen, make a simple suggestion. If this law passes and you deal with it at second reading, what if those who enforce it and then we as a whole went the way that the examples go. I'll remind you of a little thing. We often cannot agree here, we have been discussing some points for a very long time, and I may not think that this is a bad thing here, but there are a number of ordinary ones here, in the quotes of ordinary members of the Chamber of Deputies. So if we're going to protect others, then I have this suggestion: When you raise your hands here again, that we will act after 21st and 24th and 6th o'clock in the morning, why don't we at least release in the evening, as my colleague Kalousek said, the employees from the former members of the house and we'll be here with only those who are absolutely necessary to operate the House? Maybe then we'll realize what we're missing. But I'd like that for our employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u75	Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if my question about Senator Bublan was right, but I didn't get the answer. I asked how, if this law was adopted, to judge Sapa's market, where there are several dozens in one place, perhaps hundreds of entrepreneurs with different identification numbers. How will the law be judged on this market? I think Senator Bublan also knows why I am asking this because, as former colleagues in the last parliamentary term in the Security Committee, we have repeatedly dealt with the security situation in Vietnam's Sapa Market. I beg the senator very nicely to answer my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u77	Now, Mr Karamazov, who is the last member of the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to limit selling time is another series of measures that has a clear aim - to limit our freedom. The Left likes to regulate people's personal lives. Now she thinks she's gonna order how we're supposed to spend our free time when it's supposed to be closed in larger shops at some holidays. Personally, I'm not a big fan of free time shopping. I'd rather go to sports or nature myself. It never occurred to me, however, to force others to go out in the wild with me when they prefer to do something else. Yeah, maybe they're buying. Maybe it's their hobby, but maybe they don't have a choice, maybe they have time to think about what to buy and compare offers on days off. That is clearly not what the senators who voted for the proposal are interested in. I guess they have enough time to shop on weekdays. This proposal is, of course, dangerous on principle. The government stops separating public life and private life. More and more now the state wants to tell us how to behave in private life. But institutions aren't supposed to stick their noses in it. It is the space of every person to whom the State is not entitled. If this space is usurped by the state, freedom turns into totalitarianism. So far, some politicians want to tell us what not to do in our spare time - not to shop. But we're just a step away from when they want to tell us what to do in their spare time. I would not like to go back to the time of forced participation in the so-called spontaneous celebrations of the Labor Day or the compulsory hanging of flags, whether they are red or blue. The State should restrict and prosecute acts that are harmful or dangerous. But what is dangerous about shopping on a national holiday? What is the harm of purchasing citizens? Perhaps an economy that grows because of higher consumption? Perhaps business employees who usually take shifts on holidays voluntarily -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u79	Mr. Ambassador, I'm very sorry. I'm asking the left side of the hall not to settle down and discuss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u80	Perhaps business employees who usually take shifts on holidays voluntarily because they are associated with better financial appreciation? Why is it a left that damages employees and intends to abolish jobs? Because jobs will be cancelled. Less employees will be logically needed for a smaller number of sales hours. Why are we dealing with nonexistent problems rather than talking about today's challenges and facing them? I therefore call on the members of the House not to ask themselves these questions and to take in vain the citizens of freedom that they have so hard to obtain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u81	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u82	Thank you for the floor. I'd follow up on my colleague Fiedler. I'd like to ask the senator, our former colleague, because he knows exactly what's going on here so he can develop the reason message a little bit, because if it wasn't really in the press, in the official press, I'd have suspected it was an attempt at irony or satire. And I'm willing to quote it to you so that we know what the honored upper chamber has sent us for justification: As regards expenditure from the state budget and other public budgets, it will consist of the cost of administrative supervision of compliance with the law. - Period, no number. The revenue of the state budget will be reduced by taxing profits from sales on holiday. - No number. How about VAT? I think it's obvious that this isn't just a profit from sales, but it sounds like a nice thing that we're gonna cut someone's suspicious profit from sales. No number. However, it can be assumed - this is the assumption of most senators - that much of the sales will shift to smaller stores and to standard sales times, and therefore there will be no tax evasion. - Let's note the argument. In the first sentence, our honored colleagues say that there will be a tax blackout, even if they do not specify it, and in the second sentence they say that there will be no tax outage. So either the sentence is first or the sentence is second. Both these sentences cannot apply at the same time. On the other hand, higher income in tourism and services provided in the field of leisure activities can be assumed. So we're probably going to pay for the entrance to nature, otherwise I don't know, they're going to argue as nicely as people are going to go to nature if they're not going to buy, but if there's an increase in income and sales, and so there's tax, then it's probably going to be paid for. No number again. So then, in truth, and this has to be appreciated, they say: The claims on the state budget are unpredictable, but minimal. - That's also a nice sentence, very illogical. We can't estimate it, but we know it's going to be a minimum range. If someone says it's a minimum range, I think it's an estimate. But the senators say it's not an estimate, but it's an authority that says it's minimal. And that's it. But we're not talking about that tourism income, it's nothing. That was the first paragraph. The impact on operators, the entrepreneurs concerned, will consist, on the one hand, of limiting sales on the holiday, on the other hand, in saving wage costs and part of the overhead costs. However, this applies only to large entrepreneurs. The impact on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be positive, as the law will indirectly limit competition from large entrepreneurs. - Well, I don't know if it's a support position on the bill, or a sentence where we should be careful that someone wants to limit competition by law and claim it himself. That was the second paragraph of the explanatory memorandum. And the last comes: the social impact will be favorable, for people will have more free time to devote themselves to their family and hobbies, on which they - beware: who? - The European Union has increased its emphasis. Work life should not interfere negatively with family and personal life. End of reason message. Now, no kidding. Is it a reason message, or is it an attempt at satire or irony? I'm really not sure. But we've learned that 200 meters are written from France. So when a fellow Member of Junek here says that perhaps cyclists could have 0.5 pardons because, among other things, in France, the government is saying no, which makes us jealous that we don't have it. If we're suggesting something here about speed, it's said again - it's not in France. Such an argument that we gave 200, because 200 have the Francouz, and if you want to, colleagues and colleagues, change it in those committees, is more evidence of the quality of the proposal than any sophisticated criticism from among the opposition. If you read the explanatory memorandum and you hear it's the same as in France, then we can't vote for anything but rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u83	Mr Kalousek's point of fact, and then Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u84	In view of these foreign authoritarian patterns, I would like to ask the petitioner if he could tell us how it is in Croatia. [[Laughter from the right.]] There's no greater authority here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u85	Member Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u86	Thank you for the floor. I'll admit that before today's hearing, I wasn't quite sure how we're going to stand up to this amendment here. And we said that at our press conference that our parliamentary club is not united in this and we will vote freely. However, after hearing this debate and the argumentative shrink and strength here, I have come to believe that, as the party colleague of the translator says, this legislative pasquil must be rejected. And I'm making a motion to dismiss at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u87	Thank you. Several of your previous speakers have done the same, so the proposal is registered here. If no one else applies to the general debate, I will end the general debate and ask the final words. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, this dispute is truly ideological. It was said here, there were some comments about freedom, about the threat of social engineering and about the liberal market economy dealing with it itself, with the demand and supply. I am not an enemy of a market economy, but it must have some rules and some base. And about that base, and here I might want to say another sentence, depending on what it's built on. This is where we talk about the stores: we close, we open. But the stores, it's not some thing, it's an object. There are people in those stores. And because of those people, because of the employees, because of the salesmen, the stockbrokers, that's what this law is designed for. It's not about the stores, but it's really about the people. It's not the buyers or the non-shoppers, it's the ones who have to spend the holidays there. I'd take one quote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u89	I ask my colleagues not to shout. If anyone's got something to say, let them come forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u90	"Economics and economics base is the foundation of a society that determines everything else, including morality and culture. Everything else is just an extension of the economic basis, or a false conscience and a social illusion." If we have an economy as a base, we can really talk here, just like I heard from the right side here. But this quote is from Karel Marx. So it's just for you to know what kind of thinking or base we want to have for our future direction of society. I have a few comments on what was said here. Mr Kučera said it was a matter for Catholic countries. Indeed, the surrounding countries may be based on a Catholic tradition, but such as Italy or Ireland, and they are a very strong Catholic country, so it is not regulated there. There's no law against being open. That's where they do it on their own. That's the difference. And when we look at the map of Europe, as it is in individual countries, and where there is no regulation, they are Balkan countries besides our Republic, then Baltic and Sweden. And, of course, the Ireland I was talking about. Otherwise, other countries have either full regulation, such as Germany, Austria, Hungary, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Portugal, or partial, and our law would indeed belong to the category of partial regulation. And that's what countries like Spain, France, Switzerland and others have. So we wouldn't be too different from the other countries. Mr Stanjura said it came from a social democracy workshop in the Senate. It's not like that. It was approved across the political spectrum, and even one Senator for the Civil Democratic Party supported this law. I'm not going to name him so you don't vote him off your side. I already talked about choosing holidays. It really is a matter of a bit of an assessment. If you get another impression, I think that an amendment in this regard would not be too difficult. You know, this place is haunted by people losing their jobs. This is seven days a year. Seven days. It's a really small list. Not to mention that, as I have observed in the last two or three years, such large business chains are already closed at Christmas Day, even on the second Christmas holiday or New Year's Eve. So that would narrow it down a little bit, so if we add some more public holidays to it, there wasn't any major intervention in the economy. Nor would it affect employment. I worked at the grocery store for several years, so I know how it went. When it was a holiday, of course the purchases in the previous days were larger, which means the sales were larger. He'll have that economic impact, if there is one, it'll be absolutely minimal or maybe none. Because we know how to shop here when there's some time off, people might buy three times as much as they need. But only the vision of free days drives them to buy more. So I'm not worried about anything in that direction. And Mrs Černochová, what's the deal with Sapa? I really don't know. That depends on what the law will look like, if it's 200 meters, or if there's a number of employees, or if there's another criterion. But certainly the seven days of the year, if the Sapa is open, it won't affect security, it's a matter far deeper and more problematic. I, ladies and gentlemen, would no longer like to speak to that. If you decide to release this proposal to second reading, there will certainly be room for a big discussion, or perhaps a better solution to some problematic places. I believe that we will approach this as a law for employees, not for us who shop or want to spend the holiday in some other way, but it really is for those women, mostly women who are in the shops and who are calling for it. And I, since I've seen some opinion polls, most of the employees are in favour of making restrictions, at least partial, happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u91	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u92	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I will only fulfill the role of rapporteur. In the first part of the debate in the general debate on 9 December 2014, 14 Members made factual remarks, some repeatedly thereafter, and one motion was made to reject the bill at first reading. In today's general debate, 16 duly enrolled Members have spoken and 24 have spoken with factual remarks. During this discussion, four proposals were made to reject the bill at first reading. So that's all for intelligence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u93	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, and we will therefore proceed to the vote. There's been a motion to dismiss several times. I'll check you all out, please, for a new registration. And we will vote on a motion to dismiss. Thevorum has stabilized. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion to dismiss, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 98, registered is 157, for 67, against 74. This proposal has not been adopted. [[16.10 hours]] In that case, we will deal with the draft of the commandment. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Economic Committee, and I therefore propose that, in the context of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Act, we order the draft law to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee. I'll ask if there's another proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this proposal. Who's against it? The vote is 99. Registered is 161, for 155, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. There are no other proposals. So now there is room for their presentation. Please, Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u94	Thank you. I propose a committee of social and budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u95	Yes, that's two suggestions. Come in? [[No one checked in.]] So we're going to vote. First, we will vote on the commandment of the Social Committee. I'm opening the vote and asking who agrees. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 100. Registered is 161, for 153, versus 3. The motion was accepted. There was still a motion for a commandment to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the Committee on Budgets to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 101. Registered is 161, for 50, against 58. This proposal has not been adopted. This has exhausted all the votes. Mr. Volný? Wait a minute. I am merely stating that we have ordered this proposal to the Committee of Economics as a guarantee and as a social one. That concludes the discussion of this point. Before I open point 21, I will give the floor to Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must now do one duty, I must say that this is a very kind duty. I say with great ease: I would like to ask this House to take note that according to § 86 para. 6 I take back the draft amendment to Act 202 on lotteries, i.e. the House Press 437. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-001-121.u97	Yes, thank you. The House has been informed and we can move on to the point
