ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u1	212. Oral inhalation Unfortunately, the Prime Minister apologized from today's meeting on a foreign trip, so he is not present. I give the floor to Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will present the first interview on Bohuslav Sobotka, and it will be an interview on the issue of transparent decision-making on subsidies. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, there was a demonstration of mayors protesting the way regional subsidies are distributed in Central Bohemia before the Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia on Monday. There are municipalities that, despite all efforts, will not get a crown, and then we have a village in Central Bohemia, from whose success lies breathless. One of them is Cerhenice, about which there was a rhyme. That's what she gave, more than that, Cerhenice's the most. For the record, we're talking about the Central Bohemia Regional Council. Since 2010, Cerhenice has received nearly 60 million crowns. We were able to repair the waterworks, pavements and roads. For $700,000, they fixed their information center. A hundred thousand communities have been given attractive educational trails. They're probably handy, you know. Sure, but I think the word "cool" belongs in quotes. The mayor of Cerhenice is Marek Semerád, former co-worker of David Rath and today's board member who decides on regional subsidies. In response to Mr Semerád's criticisms, we are also successful in drawing European subsidies. Let the mayors who don't get write better applications. That, as a regional deputy, he co-decisions on generous subsidies for his community, as a problem he does not see, because according to the law it is not a conflict of interest. Deputy Director Semerád has developed a sense of humor, it would be said. I don't know. After the demonstration, many mayors spoke more of audacity. And they asked me to ask you, Prime Minister, as the party chief of Deputy Semerád Semerade, for instructions on how to write better applications for subsidies. I have no doubt that you will have some good advice for non-social democratic mayors as well. A bear used to split up in the House. There's a teddy bear on the edge today. The mayors of one such teddy bear are sending you, Prime Minister, and I'd be happy to hand it over to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u3	I thank Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will be answered in writing for her intervention. Mr Radim Fiala, who will intersect the absent Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka in support of terrorism, will give the second interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, I být try to be brief. The UN General Assembly approved a resolution - I quote - against the glorification of Nazism, neo-Nazism, and other ideologies that are a breeding ground for modern racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. Can you please tell us whether the Czech Republic has supported this resolution and, if not, why? Since I still have time, I will add that - dear colleagues, if you do not know, the Czech Republic has abstained. Yes, we got held up. I don't think there's anything to say. We are a country of two faces pretending to fight such phenomena as the direct conquest of terrorism that the resolution states, or we are not sovereign countries. In my opinion, this may be indirect support for terrorism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u5	I thank Mr Fial. Another prize-winner to give the third interview is Mr Tomio Okamura, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of immigrants and Muslims in Rabbit 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u6	It doesn't say "immigrants."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u7	I have it written here, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u8	Dear absent Prime Minister, the inhabitants of Rabbit City have turned to us. This is the city of Pardubick, where the administration of the refugee facilities of the Ministry of the Interior showed interest in the building of the former educational institute and children's home. This facility should serve as an asylum facility for refugees who should remain in the Czech Republic permanently. The vast majority of local residents disagree with the transformation of a children's home into a hostel for migrants. Statistics from Germany and France are relentless. Muslim immigrants are recruited in large numbers not only by terrorists but also by perpetrators of other crime, rapists, thieves or drug dealers. muslim have the lowest level of integration and are, in proportion to both the other migrants and the indigenous people, the highest proportion of social benefit recipients. The presence of a larger number of Muslims always leads to an increase in the risks to the indigenous population and also leads to property depreciation. Prime Minister, it's not just the Králík. When you send hostile migrants to our cities and municipalities, and your government has already agreed to several thousand in the next two years, for which there is a clear and statistically conclusive higher risk of being dangerous to its surroundings, what will you tell our citizens? Answer me directly and without freaking out whether you are willing to personally guarantee as Prime Minister that none of the migrants is a terrorist, that none of them and their children will threaten their neighbors, that they will not commit criminal activity and will not be a burden on the community and the state. Can you clearly guarantee that to your citizens? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u9	I thank Mr Okamur, who will be answered in writing. Mr Martin Komárek, who will intercede Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the role of Radek Pokorný in the Skoda Transportation case, will give the fourth interview to the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u10	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, even if it doesn't look like it, vánoce is coming. Now imagine ordering a mobile phone online. They'll deliver it to you next year in June and with the wrong software. You will complain and you will be sentenced to a fine of several hundred thousand crowns. You'll feel like you live in Haskov or Kafka's country. You live in the land of both these people. That's exactly what happened in the case of Damage Transportation. Škoda Transportation did not deliver locomotives to the Czech Railways on time and punished for the Škoda Transportation mistake were České dráhy. Your friend Radek Pokorný played a double role in this. On the one hand, the attorney Škoda Transportation, on the other hand, worked on the arbitration committee. The same Radek Pokorný was involved in the cases of Mostecký coal and Sokolovská coal, in which you were also involved. This classmate of yours from high school, a friend and business partner has some strangely big influence on politics. There was a talk of Marek Dalík once. He's already chimera today. There's talk of Radek Pokorné today. So, Prime Minister, as much as I respect you, and I know you're chairman of the coalition government, in the interest of the citizens, I have to ask you what your current relationship is with attorney Pokorný. Are you friends, friends, or business partners? How often do you keep in touch with him? Does he advise you? Is he helping you? Is he a friend of yours? Did you ever owe him money? Does he have any part in the executive power in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u11	I thank Mr Martin Komárek. Mr Martin Kolovratník, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the arbitration of Škoda Transportation versus České dráhy, will give the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u12	Good afternoon, colleagues. Now it seems that we deliberately agreed on a frontal attack against the Prime Minister in YES. It's a moose coincidence, of course. But I will admit that we have discussed this matter and we both have the same subject with our colleague. I would like, therefore, to turn to the Prime Minister with questions not perhaps in personal relations, but indeed in specific and technical, or let us say technical. Firstly, from the information publicly available, we found that the judges in this case granted the producers, i.e. the supplier, a right to an additional fee of CZK 160 million in the amount of the purchase price, despite the fact that documents enabling the operation, i.e. what was ordered, of locomotives in Germany, were not documented. It can be said that the Czech Railways do not have the opportunity to leave at this time on the territory of Germany or to go through it further to Europe, and thus they really become a local carrier. [[14.40 hours]] That is my first question to the Prime Minister about how he will defend the state and the Czech national carrier on this very issue, when the object of delivery has clearly not been completed, but therefore the judges admit that it is to be paid for. And my second particular issue on this issue. The judges, according to our interpretation illegally, have assumed the power to conclude an inflation clause for the Czech Railways, when they have established the will of the arbitration court the obligation of the Czech Railways to pay more than 630 mil. Crowns. The essence was that the arbitration court founded a new substantive obligation of the Czech Railways by its finding, and this is important without any agreement between the partners of the contract. We all know that this type of contract, relationship or dispute should be agreed upon. There's no match here. My second question is how will the Prime Minister personally take a stand for this, or how will he help the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok to achieve this agreement and that the Czech Railways do not have to have this obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u13	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Mr Tomio Okamura, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of immigrants and Muslims in Rabbit 2, will continue his series with the sixth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u14	Dear absent Prime Minister, we are facing a massive invasion of hostile migrants. Even the biggest fool can't see the risks associated with the mass million-dollar invasion of Muslims. Not only the citizens of Rabbit City, whom your government is trying to impose on immigrants, but from all over the Republic, citizens are desperate for help. You, Prime Minister, are part of a group of European leaders who have put security on the continent without precedent, and I am beginning to think that this is simply a simple human stupidity that I have been willing to tolerate before. You stand against the nation, against your country, betraying your home. November 17th, instead of supporting your citizens who are terrified of the Muslim invasion, you have spectacularly shown your contempt for their fears by handing out rewards for helping migrants. I have a modest question. Are you paid by the Islamic State or Islamists or any organizations that benefit from immigrants? Prime Minister, with your views, you are in any case a dangerous extremist who should resign immediately. Your government has no confidence or legitimacy to establish any hostile aliens in our country. After your resignation, we should organise both a new election and a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union and a referendum on the non-acceptance of migrants and the expulsion of all who are illegally staying in our territory, so that citizens themselves can decide their future and who they want to live with in their country. How much longer will you despise the citizens and act against their will? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u15	I thank Mr Okamur for his contribution. Mr Radim Fiala will give the seventh interview. It will be an interview with the Prime Minister on the threat of radical Islamism. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u16	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that Sharia law is contrary to the European concept of democracy and freedom. How will your government respond to the spread of this part of radical Islam? Are you preparing the enforcement of this finding in relation to the activities of the churches under the Church Act? I hope, Prime Minister, that your statement will not be merely in the sense that we will essentially do nothing, we will wait for the Islamic police on the streets to rampage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u17	I thank Mr Fial. We are getting to the eighth interview that Mrs Věra Kovářová will give. She will intersect the Prime Minister on the matter of repeated absences of Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u18	Dear Prime Minister, allow me to dedicate my second interview to one small personal request. If I count well, as of this May, I have tried to verbally interpel the Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš, and I probably will not be able to do so today. Why? It seems that he has simply decided to ignore the interpellation of Members. He doesn't just go to the House on Thursday afternoon. I would understand an exceptional absence justified by important negotiations abroad, but a seven-month break, I think, is too much. I beg you, as head of Minister Babiš, to see to it that he improves his house attendance, especially on Thursday's oral questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. We are coming to the ninth interview by Mr Radim Fiala, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of the Ministry of Culture's policy. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, this year's 19th International Documentary Film Festival in Jihlava was visited by Mr Osama Mohsen. Yes, a Czech film festival, largely paid from Czech taxpayers' pockets through the Ministry of Culture and European money through European funds and the European Commission, was visited by a Syrian refugee. A man Kurd fighting against the Islamic State claim to be a member of An-Nusra, the Syrian branch of the Al-Qaeda terrorist organization. Prime Minister, I ask you to explain. If the Ministry of Culture contributed financially to the visit of a person suspected of Islamic terrorism in the Czech Republic, if the Ministry of the Interior allowed this person to cross our borders at all, then this is a completely scandalous failure of your government in protecting the interests of Czech citizens. However, if your government has evidence that the allegations of the Kurdish Democratic Party against this illegal immigrant are unfounded, then I ask you to present them, because if people with such serious accusations can move freely on the streets of our cities, then your government has simply failed fatally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u21	I thank Mr Fial. Mr Tomio Okamura, Mr. Tomio Okamura, will give the final 10th interview. I'm afraid that factual remark is not possible, Mr. Ambassador, but your tenth winning interview is now up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u22	Dear absent Prime Minister, why does the Czech Government insist on receiving Muslim migrants and not acting in accordance with the wishes of most citizens who do not want any illegal immigrants or Islamists in the Czech Republic? And do not make excuses for the European Union, because the government has repeatedly rejected the proposal of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy SPD to refer citizens to resign from the European Union so that citizens themselves can decide their future in their country and who they want to live with in the future. Why are you afraid of allowing citizens a referendum when there are elections to the House in two years' time? And your government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement acts entirely against the will of most citizens and takes irreversible steps that will negatively affect coexistence in the Czech Republic for generations. The citizens of the Czech Republic do not want Muslim migrants to settle in the vast majority. I ask for a simple and unambiguous answer. What or who entitles you to set up foreigners in the Czech Republic despite the will of citizens who, unlike you, are the real and rightful masters of your country? The only way not to despise citizens is by a referendum. Do you have the courage to ask the citizens of the Czech Republic and ask them about their opinion in the referendum on the reception of immigrants by a referendum? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u23	Thank you, Mr Okamur. That was the last of the interviews with Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. We're gonna go over to the government ministers for oral questioning. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the security of the Prague Castle complex, will give the first interview on individual members of the government. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u24	Thank you. Dear Minister, at one of the last meetings of the Budget Committee, we discussed the chapter of the Office of the President of the Republic. During the debate, we also discussed the security of the Prague Castle premises as a result of the case, which we can name as red shorts for work. Chancellor Minář then said that the Castle was preparing security frames at the entrances to the Cathedral of St. Vita, the camera system should also be strengthened and security gates should be installed at the entrance to the Castle. In short, major changes. These changes should be implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior and Defence and perhaps from the budget of these departments. [[14.50 hours]] You know, I have a little conflicting feelings about this. While I understand that, above all, the current international security situation gives a reasonable reason for certain measures, on the other hand, I have doubts as to whether the best security equipment and measures will help people who cannot handle them. A recent report by Czech Television, which showed that the Chancellor is able to launch into the most sensitive premises of the Castle without any control of almost anyone who was in Auschwitz at the right time, where Chancellor Mynář comes from, near the bus stop, unfortunately, has deprived me of a few remaining illusions about the security of the Prague Castle and, above all, the security of the head of state. Minister, in view of what has been said, I would like to ask how the negotiations on the security of the Prague Castle complex are being developed, and whether your resort also has some security awareness in the plan, not only towards the staff of the Office of the President of the Republic, which, in my view, has clearly failed in the case of the Auschwitz expedition. [[Time!]] One day, a sklendian like that wouldn't have to pay off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u25	I thank the Member and ask the Minister of the Interior for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u26	Mr President, honourable Members, I was talking about the situation, about strengthening the security of the Prague Castle with Mr President about three quarters of a year ago, which means that the debates on increasing security, strengthening security of the Prague Castle were not linked to any action, whether it was red shorts or anything else. A working group was then created, where representatives of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Prague Castle Administration, the Security Department of the Prague Castle, were to define what extent measures should be implemented. It was mainly about technical security, e.g. at the entrance to Prague Castle. We are also witnessing this in other European capitals. When you're in Rome or any other European city and you're going through an important cultural monument, you usually encounter tourniquets, you're going to encounter a kind of control like that at the airport, if someone isn't carrying dangerous weapons or explosives or anything that could endanger people's safety. We discussed the extent of these measures with Mr President and, of course, we left it to experts who had to debate with the sightseeers at the end, because perhaps the introduction of the camera system would have to be in line with the protection of monuments, and Prague Castle is a monument of the most valuable. This meant taking into account their expert opinion as well. This working group shall continue to work. Probably the protection of Prague Castle will be divided into several sections and into several time axes. In the first we really expect the deployment of technical means, whether they are camera systems or other electronic systems, which would control places where we can't see it within the camera system or there is no Castle Guard patrol in such a frequent period that we are able to replace human potential in some places with technical security. The question of who is going through the Castle and how it is going through is the issue of the administration of the Castle. I have a piece of information about how the group you mentioned went through the Prague Castle, and there is a need to do a deeper scan and really find out if any security regulations have been violated there. Let's wait for the exam. I'll be ready to report here in the next few weeks, from the position of president's security service, whether or not there's been a violation of the law. At present, I am unable to say responsibly whether or not this was the case. It's a question of funding. We were talking about the extent of the funding. Indeed, the overall measures, if implemented throughout the whole range, would be several hundred million crowns, at that first stage it will probably be several tens of millions of crowns towards the technical security that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u27	Thank you, Home Secretary. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u28	If I have the opportunity to ask additional questions, I might ask about the status of staff in the department in charge of eGovernment. According to information, at least 20 workers are missing and the government has somehow forgotten in the next year's budget that 20 workers can work in this field and industry. I tabled an amendment which raises the Ministry of the Interior chapter by 20 miles. CZK, and I would like to ask, Minister, whether there are really any negotiations going on between you and the Minister of Finance and whether it would not be easier to put it in the state budget by means of that amendment so that it would actually be there in your chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u29	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u30	Madam President, thank you for your concern for eGovernment. I think it is one of the areas where there has been an understatement in the past, or not the kind of emphasis that should have been placed. At present we are very difficult to get there, and I thank you for the opposition's interest in this area of government, because it really is important. I think that in the future its importance will increase. We're in negotiations with the Treasury Department. We've retreated from the funding requirement, but we can't retreat from the demand for functional systems. We are still at odds with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš and we have not yet submitted this to the government without our agreement. We didn't forget to put the money in the budget, but there was an agreement between my deputy, Mr. Zmatlík, and Deputy, Mr. Gregor, that only by the time the eGovernment material was passed by the government, which was a few weeks ago, so only if this material was approved by the government to this extent, the government would respond by changing the parameters of financing and the parameter of functional tables. So we're retreating from the funding demand, even though, of course, it means saving in other chapters of the resort, and now we're talking to the Treasury about whether or not we're getting those 20 seats. If the debate fails to reach a successful end in the order of, say, two or three weeks, I will submit a proposal to the government with a contradiction and I will want the government to decide whether or not the Ministry of the Interior is to get 20 seats. This is an exhaustive report on this matter. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u31	Thank you, Home Secretary. We will proceed to the second interview by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the responsibility of the Ministry of Health for the situation at Thomayerův Hospital. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u32	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I ask you to explain why the Ministry of Health installs strange managers in directly controlled hospitals, namely Thomayer Hospital and the Royal Vinohrady Faculty Hospital. PhDr showed up at Thomayerův's hospital. Jaroslav Gacka as Deputy Minister for Technology and Operation, who previously signed controversial tenders without the Minister's knowledge as Deputy at the Ministry of Justice. At the same time, Mgr was appointed as an economic deputy. Pavel Šebek, also famous for his actions at the Ministry of Justice, which came from the prison service. They are allegedly planning further hospital restructuring as of January. Apparently, they're gonna throw out all the uncomfortable people, and then, with retroactive effect, they're gonna redo the structure of the hospital that the director's newly issued. The hospital canceled transparent e-mail and written communication. Supposedly, they're setting up a lease on a part of the hospital to Meditrans. All instructions to the subordinates are just oral or telephone, leaving no trace. What are the qualifications of both Deputys, on what basis were they selected for these key functions? It is related to their installation with the release of an amount of 800 million. CZK for investments in the hospital for the construction of urgent income? I request that the planned leases and special-purpose changes be checked by the hospital's organisational structure. The Faculty Hospital of Královská Vinohrady has been holding a tender for a new director for nine months and has been acting as temporary director of MUDr. Andrea Vrbovská, who also runs the Hospital in Bulovka. The director appointed Ing as head of the Public Procurement Department. René Tůma, Chairman of Proconsult Advisor Company, originally Vaharina, who administered the court investigated contracts for Regional Health. Mr Tůma was also a supporter of the Karlovy Vary lottery drawers. His subordinate is . Radim Chyba, former city police chief with a positive illustration. What qualified those persons for these functions? Don't tell me, Minister, that these people are only the responsibility of the director or the director of the hospital. The Ministry of Health is fully responsible for the management of state hospitals. [[Time!]] The Ministry is also responsible for leaving Zeman as Director for two years, who distorted the loss of the faculty hospital and covered it up from investment funds. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u33	I thank the honourable Member, he will be answered in writing because the Minister is not present at today's interview. We will proceed to the third interview that Mr Leoš Heger will also present to the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the availability of care in the KOC. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, Mr Minister of Health, I would like to present the following question in your absence. On 12 November this year, at a press conference of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic, the Ministry presented the strategy of the Czech Oncological Society in the organization of oncological care in the Czech Republic, based on the publication of new current data. Oncological care is undoubtedly high in our country and is better, but I would still like to ask about one of the details that is related to the quality of care. In the presentation of Mrs. MUDr. Jana Prausová appeared data on the availability of care in complex oncological centres in individual regions, where availability varies quite significantly and part of patients pass to other cancer centres in other regions, which is not a defect, but a large proportion of patients, on average more than one third, are treated outside the centers. My questions are as follows: What mechanisms and how quickly will the Ministry of Health try to support areas where care is less accessible? From my point of view, especially in the Karlovy Vary Region and in the Vysočina Region. [[Time!]] And the second question is whether the Ministry intends to supplement knowledge of the different availability of top care and analysis of the results of care and the possible impact of reduced availability on the quality of care. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u35	I thank Mr Heger, he will be answered in writing. And we'll move on to the fourth interpellation. Mr Antonín Seďa will interpel the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka in the case of church restitutions at the Brdy Military Departure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, recently the Chamber of Deputies abolished Brdy's military escape, even though I pointed out possible problems. I recently received information that I do not have verified, but I consider it so crucial and serious that I have to share it with you. In 1949, the Catholic Church was to lose land worth hundreds of millions of crowns in Brdy's military retreat, without compensation. In 2012, Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, was adopted. Church entities under this Act could apply for the release of property by the end of 2013. According to my - and again untrustworthy - information was requested to issue land even in the military retreat of Brdy. If the request is resolved by the end of this year, which requires the law, the church will be unsuccessful with its request, because these land until then protect § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the law on religious restitution. However, if the request is addressed after 1 January 2016, then the church will succeed because Brdy's military retreat has been abolished and this protection falls. Minister, I ask: has the Catholic Church submitted a request for the release of land in the Brdy Military Departure? And if so, what kind of land or real estate is it? I would also like to ask whether, Minister, you will personally ensure that the Catholic Church has requested that this request be settled by the end of this year. Because if you do not do so, you will have at least political responsibility for the damage suffered by the state. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u37	I thank Mr Seďa and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, on your interview, I think it is necessary to say in particular the facts that I have examined and examined today. As to the question of which church or who authorized applicants have called, I must say that they have put their calls to the Metropolitan Chapter at St. Welcome to Prague, Roman Catholic parish of Jince and Roman Catholic parish of Nepomuk Archdeanship and the Archbishopship of Prague. These calls have been issued, according to the Regional Land Office's communication, all these calls for authorised persons have already been decided on. Compulsory persons who fall under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the Forests of the Czech Republic and the State Land Office, on the basis of the calls of authorised persons, have entered the extradition of only those properties which are not located in the territory of the Brdy Military Departure, since these obstacles are not enshrined in the provisions of § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Act, which you mentioned, number 428/2012 Coll. With regard to other calls by authorised persons relating directly to the territory of the current military retreat of Brda, the Ministry of Defence falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. Lands located in the territory of a military retreat have already been decided and the release has not been caused by an obstacle to extradition. The agreement was not concluded and was rejected by the Regional Land Office for the Central Bohemia Region in administrative proceedings. So what you're talking about here, according to all the information available at this point, are really things that, let's say, were just conjectures, but from the information I have, the situation is more or less resolved because they were asked and released, respectively, the land was issued only outside the Brdy military retreat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u39	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u40	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for specifying who has put the calls and how they have been dealt with and decided. I just want to make sure that you don't have any information at the moment about whether there's still a challenge that's affecting this military retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u41	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u42	Yes, I have to confirm now that I have no information that any call has been made to the administration concerning the site within the Brdy Military Departure, and that this call has not been decided. I cannot imagine the possibility that in the next, say, six or five weeks remaining until the end of the year, such a challenge could have been made, because the deadline for submitting calls has long expired, and from the perspective of what we see in administration, these things are settled as I mentioned them, as far as my resort is concerned, where I can say with 100% certainty. We've also been asking about the matter that falls under the Ministry of Defense, and I've been filing that information here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u43	I thank both the Minister and the Member. We'll proceed to the fifth interpellation. Mr Martin Novotný will intersect Minister Jan Mládek on energy management and indicators. However, Mr Novotný is not present, so his interpellation is failing. We'll proceed to the sixth interpellation. Mr Michal Kučera will intersect the present Interior Minister Milan Chovanec in the matter of police procedure during the demonstration on 17 November. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you to investigate from my point of view the two excesses of the Police of the Czech Republic that have occurred in the past few days. First Police of the Czech Republic on October 28 this year on Hradčany Square brutally attacked a man who cried out during the laying of wreaths: Long live Havel! From the publicly available video footage, it is clear that the officers of the person concerned did not give any notice of the possible unlawfulness of his behaviour or call him for anything, and they threw themselves at him directly and dragged him away, thereby disrupting the entire assembly much more than the man in question. In my opinion, this is an intervention that is absolutely inadequate and reminds me of the strong intervention of Communist State Security before 1989. Another excess was in my opinion this time the inaction of the police, which on 17 November this year accompanied in the afternoon a parade of supporters of the President of the Republic who moved from Albertov. According to eyewitnesses, several individuals in this procession of supporters of President Zeman began calling slogans like Nothing but the nation and the Pure Race, unfortunately without any response from the policemen present. I strongly ask you, Minister, to investigate the different procedures of police officers in the aforementioned situations, when for the words Long live Havel followed by the intervention of the police, dragging a person along the sidewalk and apprehension on the police station, while chanting racist slogans the police idly ignores. I'm also asking you for information on who this intervention is, respectively. the escort commanded and how you will deal with obvious police misconduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u45	I thank the Member for his question and ask the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, through Mr President, I would still wait with these courts. I think it is necessary to investigate matters in depth and make a final ruling after all the arguments have been taken. I am absolutely convinced that the person who was detained at Prague Castle was not detained for saying, "May Havel live." I don't think we live in a country where this is possible. The whole thing's under investigation, both police presidium inspections, and I assume the General Bureau of Security. So let us wait for their conclusions and see how they will judge the authorities that are given by law. Of course, I am very pleased that these things are under public control, because even the powers of the Minister of the Interior have been very low since the Interior Minister's inspection. I can appeal, ask the Police Presidium to use their own, let's call it control mechanisms, maybe. give suggestions to the General Inspection of Security Corps, which I have also done several times in the past. On the question where you spoke of an escort to the parade, which was to be composed of supporters of President Zeman. The parade or part of these people headed to the Straka Academy, where there were skirmishes with the police. There are several people arrested, several people charged. Of all these events, video recordings are produced, which are very carefully examined, including the statements made by the actors who, in the context of these meetings, will say a password that could violate the law. A forensic expert is invited. The expert was present at Albertov as well as at marches and individual meetings in the centre of Prague, including Albertov, including moving before Strakov Academy, including his own event at Strakova academy. This means that the police may intervene against these people if the expert in the field states that the statements you mentioned are a violation of the law. The ones you were talking about probably satisfy that. They need to be recorded. Again, there are video footage from the demonstrations, and today I have no information about who people have been accused of what crimes. I'm not able to tell you who was in charge of this intervention right now. I will request information, and if it is possible to communicate it, I will, of course, communicate it to you, including the conclusions of individual checks. I say again, however, that there is probably one thing in the investigation of the General Inspection that is not subject to me, and we will have to wait for its statement, i.e. about the man who was arrested at the Prague Castle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u47	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u48	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm not standing here before this thing for the first time. I guess I've already interrogated you last year about similar behavior and inadequate police intervention during a visit to the President of the Republic in Opava, where the Police of the Czech Republic similarly intervened against the peaceful opponents of President Zeman. I am beginning to take the impression that either the Police of the Czech Republic is not sufficiently instructed how to proceed in these cases or that the excesses committed by the Police of the Czech Republic are systemic errors. I'd like to ask you to explain this behavior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u49	Please, Minister, a follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u50	Again, we are in a democratic state that has had democratic police for more than twenty years, whose primary purpose I think is to protect the legality, the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. And if any excess happens, his inspection was taken from the Home Secretary in the past. I don't want to debate whether it was right or wrong, but the current situation is that we have a General Inspectorate of Security Corps, which deals not only with the police, but also with other files, not all of them subject to the Ministry of the Interior. For this reason, too, I believe that the General Inspection is to continue as it was set up. And if the law is violated by a police officer or any other body, it is necessary to contact the General Inspection and await its independent investigation. Of course, I can appeal to the Police President, and I have also done this in my deliberations in order to harmonise the method of intervention so that it is clear and clear how the police should behave on these issues. But it's really very difficult to judge the whole intervention by one fact, one moment. It needs to be evaluated, assessed, and then, of course, fall to whom. And I say again, even those cops have the right to have a standard administrative procedure conducted with them, where they can answer for any activity they have done, they have the right to defend themselves at the end of which there is some administrative decision. That means we'll judge the things you're talking about. Once again, my colleague, through Mr President, I will pass on what you have read here today to the Police President to include it in the evaluation report that the Police Presidium is doing in its internal investigation. I assume that all of these things that you are talking about are also addressed by the General Inspection - which sometimes only deals with them by assessing that there has been no criminal offence and thus does not continue to investigate, but it is purely a knowledgeable activity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u51	I thank the Minister for his reply. We'll proceed to the seventh interpellation. Mrs Olga Havlová will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jan Mládek, on the subject of the Mining Act and the Mining Damages. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. vážený Minister, in October 2011 OKD announced the expansion of mining in the village Karviná, Orlová and Doubrava. At that time the EIA documentation was not processed, no agreement was signed with the city of Karviná on the resolution of conflicts of interest. Nevertheless, OKD started with purchases which were carried out in the form of a purchase contract for land and buildings by paying the mining damage in advance. Only in 2014 was the EIA produced, which is reduced compared to the original plan. An assessment was also prepared for the documentation and 30. 7. A public hearing took place in 2015. By reducing the projects, there was a situation where OKD bought out a certain number of properties during 2012, some are even demolished, which will not affect this area and will be outside the effects of planned mining. The Ministry of the Environment has not yet issued a binding opinion. The mining damage has been paid in advance, but no mining damage will occur. And I'm asking what will be done in these cases if the amount for the mining damage that has not been incurred has been recovered. Is it okay when OKD bought out this way? OKD used a legal reserve to pay mining damages in advance. Would this be an unauthorized drawing of money from this reserve? And for the last time, there's no real estate transfer in the purchase of buildings. The owner of the building is until the removal of its original owner and the state is losing a significant amount of money, i.e. from real estate transfer taxes. So isn't this about circumventing the law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u53	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. I'll ask the Minister of Industry and Trade for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the creation of financial reserves for mining damage, as well as the drawing-up, is always approved by the Mining Authority under the Mining Act, not by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I will at least try to respond in general to individual questions. On your first question, I can say that there is no reason to refund the amount for the mining damage. The real estate was redeemed on the basis of an agreement with the owners as an expression of the free will of both parties. Following the signature of the damage settlement agreement, the amount of the share is paid, with the surcharge being paid only after the transfer of the property to the company with contractual obligations on both sides. The transfer is subject to a demolition measure for the property in question. If the owner prevents the demolition, he is obliged to return the paid part according to the contract. After the property is handed over, the demolition of the property takes place. [[15.20 hours]] Question number two. OKD buys real estate for the purpose of settlement of mining damage and also as a way of dealing with conflicts of interest. These are the damage that they want to redeem and often make it conditional on the approval of the mining activity just to realize the purchase of their property, both before and after. This method of settlement of mining damages the law allows. Question three. The mining company used the funds in time and in substance according to preliminary information in accordance with applicable legislation and in addition for the supervisory performance of the authorities of the State Mining Administration and the independent auditor. On the final, fourth question, I can say that only the land is transferred in this process, and of which the tax is paid properly. There is no transfer of ownership for buildings as they are subsequently demolished at the expense of the company after the transfer of the property and are not used by the company at all. Finally, Madame, I can offer the initiation of a detailed examination of this case at the Czech Mining Authority and a written explanation. However, allow me a few more general words on the situation of OKD. I am also concerned about this situation, not only because of doubt whether all the procedures have been followed, but because of the overall future of coal mining in Ostrava. What managers and OKD tell us is not very encouraging and it is not quite clear what the future of coal mining in Ostrava will be. The point is that, above all, the prices of energy coal fall below any expectations, and if prices do not move sharply in the foreseeable future, the perspective is not entirely favourable. The state made an agreement on the Paskov mine, it was at the beginning of this government's mandate when it was promised 600 million. CZK to address the social consequences of the closure of the Paskov mine after 1. 1. 2017. At this point, however, it seems that this Treaty will expire at 31. 12. 2015, since the prices of coking coal on the world market are below the level agreed in the contract - $110 per tonne - and then the contract expires. It's as if on one side the state is free from the obligation to pay 600 miles. CZK as a social impact for miners from Paskov, on the other hand it reopens the future of OKD as a whole. And then the problems can be much bigger than what you mention, because OKD has developed mining in Karvina on a relatively large area and it is not at all clear that there will ever benefit from anything. Then it is a question of what will eventually happen to all these costs and what will happen, especially if the worst option for employment occurs, i.e. for the company's audition, because then everything is solved at the expense of bankruptcy, which may not be sufficient to solve. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u55	I thank the Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u56	I would like to thank the Minister for his helpfulness, and I would like him to really check this in writing, because we believe that all steps have not been taken to ensure that real estate can be bought out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u57	I thank the Member and the Minister. We'll proceed to the eighth interpellation. Mr. Jiří Valenta will intersect the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the personnel policy of the Czech Post. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u58	Dear Minister, a amendment to the Postal Services Act has recently been adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. Not only in this context, but especially in response to numerous questions from citizens and the legitimate interest of the media, let me ask you three questions that I would ask you to answer. If you are unable to answer from the point of view, I will be satisfied with the written answer, but all the more exhausting. First of all, what kind of post does the Czech Transport Minister BC work on in the Czech Post. Zdeněk Žák. What's his job? And what are her specific results? Secondly, what you say as Minister of the Interior to the fact that during the operation of Mr. Žák at the Ministry of Transport there was, among other things, a proven attempt to disrupt the integrity of another state enterprise. I quote from the BIS's annual report: "In the first quarter of 2014, a group of lobbyists attempted to initiate the appeal of General Director of the Air Traffic Management of the Czech Republic by Jan Klas and the replacement of top management of the company. The group sought to occupy significant positions by pre-selected people and to gain influence on the company's management. The lobbyists, through intermediaries from the surroundings of high-ranking constitutional officials and from the business environment, arranged meetings of their candidate to the general director with members of the government." In contrast to the police investigating this structure for corruption, the BIS identified this unacceptable lobbying as the most serious security risk of handling air traffic control public procurement and destabilization of the company. Three. Therefore, do you think it is appropriate for a state enterprise to employ, and this is still largely not transparent - neither is the amount of Žákův's remuneration nor his actual activity - in the important positions of the person associated with those procedures, with a low degree of experience necessary for the performance of this highly specialised post? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u59	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Home Secretary for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can say to Mr Zdeněk Žák, according to information from the Czech Post, that he is cooperating externally on the basis of the 2014 Cooperation Agreement, which, in addition to consulting and logistics, focuses mainly on ICT and telematics issues, with his primary advice heading into the area of a branching plant which is currently being cut off, will be tied out of the Czech Post, and I assume that after the de facto departure of the branching plant from the structure of the Czech Post, this consultative agreement will also expire. Unfortunately, the scope of this contract cannot be disclosed at present. The contract is protected by the protection of personal data and cannot be disclosed. I don't have any more information where I'd have the scope of the contract. Of course, at the meeting, I discussed with the Director General and this personal choice. Czech Post guaranteed that Mr Žák performs the tasks he sets out in the required quality and scope. And once again, I stress that I am not counting on this consulting agreement to pass at a time when the race is cut off, which I assume will be from 1. 1st of next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u61	The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u62	Minister, of course, I would not like to make any parallels to the functioning and extent of the threat to the economy between state enterprises, lobbyists and some politicians, but do not be angry with me, the information available and some concern about the Czech Post and its currently complex economic situation lead me to this unfortunately. I would very much like to dispel these concerns at least in part, and I therefore ask you once again for a more detailed written answer, because what you have just told me, I have also found on Googl. I also disagree with you a little bit that this information cannot be provided by law, because the Supreme Administrative Court is rather strict in this respect and states that which company or undertaking belongs to the State cannot hide behind disguises of the type of limited liability company or limited liability company to which this information embargo applies. There are various other judicacies that confirm this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u63	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u64	I think it would be possible, my colleague, through Mr President, to say, unaddressedly, what advisors are there, to number them, and to assign some kind of reward to them. Unfortunately, it is not possible to define the amount of the contract directly to the person, at least this is the opinion of the lawyers of the Ministry of the Interior and the Czech Post. I will, of course, give you a more detailed answer, even think that in the past this case has already been dealt with by the Czech Post Supervisory Board, if I remember correctly. I'd like to request an entry, if necessary. Of course, the Czech Post Supervisory Board can check these things in depth, which is why it is there. I suppose she's already discussed and acted on this matter in the past. If that is the case, I will ask for an entry from this Supervisory Board and for an opportunity to introduce you to it. I will, of course, provide more extensive written information according to your request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u65	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the ninth interpellation. Mrs Pavlína Nytrová will intersect Minister Robert Pelikán on the functioning of the information systems of the courts. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u66	Thank you. Dear Minister, if I am not mistaken, since 2008, the ISAS information system, the Court's administration information system, and the ISVS, the public administration information system have been applied to courts. These systems serve to accelerate the administrative work of the courts and to unify records. The transparency of the allocation of work to individual courts, judges on the basis of the work schedule is also an important element. Based on the use of information systems, information is easily obtained when the document was delivered, sent, to whom, in what cases, etc. This means online you can track the history of the entire process. Dear Minister, my question is: do the courts use only these information systems to record and transmit documents and files? Is it logged into the system online? If documents are transmitted between the prosecutor's office, the court or the courts of each other, are only data boxes used for this purpose? And the final question is: are cases assigned to judges transparently on the basis of a work schedule? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u67	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the courts in this area is much more complex. In the past years, or in the past period, let's say, there has been something that can best be called elemental digitization, which has led to the development of a number of independent and unconnected systems. So what you're describing is something we only have in one row of courts. On the next row of courts, we have another system for completely different architecture. We have a third system at the Supreme Court. We have a fourth system at the Supreme Administrative Court. In addition, we have various separate systems, for example, for electronic payment orders, that is the fifth system, for insolvency proceedings, that is the sixth system. And I could, unfortunately, continue this way for quite a long time. Together, we have about 50 wrong-connected systems in the resort today, or rather unconnected systems. The idea of sitting somewhere on the computer and seeing what's going on online is something I would very much like, but unfortunately, what isn't working at the moment. It's also something we consider absolute priority and what we will be dealing with. As far as I'm aware, there's another interpellation going to that future today, so I'm gonna keep the things that concern the future to that. As regards specifically the issue of the allocation of ideas and communication, the allocation of ideas works as it should, that is to say, there is indeed order in the courts in this regard. Things that come in data or paper form are immediately introduced into those systems and then, in a controlled manner, the allocation of judges according to the schedule of work is based on a rotational principle. So I can calm you down in this respect, there's no problem here. As far as communication between the institutions is concerned, unfortunately, it is there that, due to the lack of consistency of the systems, it is still much more common in the form of paper, and although it is in the form of electronic, it is simply the basic electronic form where it is either an e-mail or a data box, but we cannot really talk about the real data link yet. I hope I've exhausted the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u69	The Member does not feel exhausted and therefore asks an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u70	The Member may feel exhausted, but the question is not to be exhausted. I was wondering if the documents were only transmitted in the form of a data box between the courts and the prosecutor's office, only in that form. And then I ask you, when do you think that the system will actually be linked and it will be online, because by not being linked and that the online control is not there, so that's why there's a huge room for non-transparable distribution of individual cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u71	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u72	Those are two things that, fortunately, are not connected. Communication between the D.A.'s office and the court doesn't just run through data boxes, but it's often done in the classic form. The main reason is therefore the absence of a common electronic file at the moment when it is necessary to attach evidence to the indictment, especially to the prosecution, but often to other procedural submissions, and the fact that the evidence is in analog, documentary or sometimes other tangible form, when it is a hammer that has been beaten by someone, it simply cannot be sent through a data box. But I don't think there's much room here for any non-transparency, because we have clearly defined points of entry in court. It's a mailroom that takes these things one by one and puts them into the system, gets a time stamp at that point, and works with them in a transparent and traceable way. The only small risk that I don't conceal the weaknesses of the system that exist so far would be that in some way a person in the mailroom would have a sense of how the wheel is running, and would be waiting with some document before they even put it in the system, for the right moment. Of course, it is now - and we know that sometimes in the past, unfortunately, it has happened. It's a lot harder today because we're running two channels down there. One is this, let's say, analogue mailing room, the paper mailing room, and it's unpredictable to have data boxes coming into it. So if someone wanted to take advantage of their functions in this way, it's already hard for them, because there's this unpredictable element in the fact that there's something falling from the second channel. [[Attention on time.]] So if I sum it up, when it comes to electronization, we'll talk about it, there's a lot of work ahead of us. However, as far as transparency and the danger of an illegal judge are concerned, I think that is not a threat today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u73	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the tenth interview. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will intersect Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický on the shooting down of SU-24.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u74	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear ministers, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, two days ago we learned that the Turek, a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, shot down the Russian bomber SU-24, who carried out a mission in the sole real fight against radicals from the so-called Islamic State. I believe that there is no one here in the Chamber of Deputies who does not know about this event, and that is why I will leave out another description and familiar information. However, the Government of the Czech Republic is silent on this. I don't know our position on this event. I understand that the Prime Minister and several ministers are on a state visit to China, but since the Prime Minister himself has not spoken about this, and I cannot intersect him here for his absence, I would like to know the position at least from the Minister of Defence. I learned from the media that military analyst Jaroslav Štefec called this event a war act of a NATO member against Russia. This makes me logically concerned, and I therefore ask what is the Minister of Defence's position on the attack or the act of shooting down the Russian SU-24 with the Turkish army. And if I may, Minister, please do not describe in your reply where he was going, how many times he should have been warned and the other information that is publicly available, but answer this particular question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u75	I thank Mr Ondráček. I'll ask Minister Stropnický for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that at least the Minister of Defence, Mr President, will satisfy you. At the same time, maybe it would be good to thin out some of Mr Štefc's analytical outputs from time to time by another source. But that is up to you, through Mr President. I don't think everything that's been published is exactly what happened. I don't know if it was published anywhere, maybe so, the map where you can see the protrusion on the southeast Turkish border, where there was a breach. All I know is that the disruption of air space in alliance countries has occurred repeatedly in recent months, in various parts of the alliance territory, such as the Baltics or the Norwegian border, in the territorial waters and in the airspace, but also in Iceland, and in one case Sweden has almost suffered a disaster and a collision with a civilian aircraft. Unfortunately, it is a common tool of some sort of air defense testing within the framework of military strategy and also a test of determination to respond to certain provocations, say, in some more powerful way. The North Atlantic Council meeting at the level of the ambassadors with NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and there was a consensus that Turkey had the right to adequate protection of its airspace. The fact that this is in a way an extreme case, this particular one, probably an objective observer will find a consensus on this in the sense that the crossing of the tip of Turkish territory was measured in the order of tens of seconds and that the Russian plane was most likely, but even at this moment it is still 100% certain, shot down even then outside Turkish territory. All we have to do is believe that both sides of the conflict will provide all information to enable the incident to be properly investigated, but both are really needed to do so, because otherwise we are in the category of claim against the claim that the Turkish party considers that it has repeatedly warned the aircraft, the Russian denies it. Perhaps I will just add so much that a few days before the incident in Ankara, a Russian ambassador and a military and air accomplice were invited to the meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkey, and it was emphasized that the Turek were aware of the partial disruptions of airspace in the area in which the incident occurred. They warned the Russian side that Turkey would react. Yet what happened happened. Which I don't think anyone reasonable wants. But at this point, some categorical courts I think would be shallow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u77	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ondráček is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know, so I guess you have other intelligence services or you're getting other information because you say a few dozen seconds. I have read the information provided by the United States of America, which speaks of seconds, at most 17 seconds. Seventeen seconds isn't a few dozen, so that's it. If such a plane were to take off, in 17 seconds, the pilot would not even get on the plane, which means they were already ready and it is strictly a provocation. I think that... Then you can answer, you don't have to talk to me from behind, whose provocation. I think on that territory these states should try to fight against the enemy, who is the Islamic State, in a coordinated way, together. Because the risk we're facing here is huge. As far as I can see, it's about starting a war. And I'll probably stop calling you Secretary of Defense but Minister of War, because you seem to agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u79	I ask the Minister for an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u80	I, through Mr President, will leave the final invective aside because it is not worth commenting on. But speaking of provocation, there really is a question of whose. No Turkish plane has disrupted any Russian airspace for a tenth of a second. Nor did any of the Norwegian aircraft interfere, or Finnish. Whoever's disrupting this space systematically is completely obvious. There is no need to find out at all and analyse it in any way. That's obvious. And now we can wonder if the reaction was adequate or not. It can be assumed that it may not have been adequate, I do not say that or exclude it, but I do not think that we are still at a stage where we can clearly and clearly say so. Of course, the fact that all reasonable rational forces are trying to resolve the situation there and not escalate is obvious. Pretty much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u81	Thank you, Minister. We're going to proceed to the 11th interpellation. Mr Jan Zahradník will intersect the absent minister for local development Karla Šlechtová in relation to the creation of the so-called. Mini offices. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u82	Mr President, in view of the apology of Minister Šlechtová, I am withdrawing my interpelation for today's interpelative day and will submit it in a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u83	Thank you, honourable Member. We'll proceed to the 12th interpellation. Mrs Jitka Chalánková will interpel the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the issue of the citizenship of the Michalákův brothers. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u84	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in the case of Czech children taken from Czech parents by Norwegian social service. I have one specific and very specific question for you as Home Secretary. At this point, the adoption of one of the brothers, David, was first approved by Norwegian foster parents who are very interested in adoption. After all, they were always interested in adopting another child, just like they said. David now has Czech citizenship. No other. Just like his parents. If it comes to the worst, and the Nor actually approve its adoption, it will probably give it Norwegian citizenship. My question is: Will David lose Czech citizenship in such a situation? Or will the Czech Republic continue to view it as a Czech citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u85	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Home Secretary for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because, according to the analysis by the lawyers of the Ministry of the Interior, the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship, whether it has acquired it in adoption, adoption or otherwise, does not create for a minor David Michalák that he has lost Czech citizenship. Czech citizenship could be lost if a guardian, but that is meant to be a guardian on Czech territory, in this case I assume that it will still be David Michalák's parents or at least a mother, they would have to give their consent. And I don't suppose that's where they'd give that approval. We will follow closely with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the actions of the Norwegian Party, but we do not think that there is currently a legal institute in Europe that would allow this. That means I can probably calm you and the public down here that this shouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u87	Thank you, Minister. I'd like to ask the lady an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u88	I do not have an additional question, I just want to thank both the Prime Minister and the Government of the Czech Republic for continuing to devote so much to this case, because the Kingdom of Norway has failed to explain to this day why it has taken away Czech citizens from their parents and why it has divided them. So thank you for your cooperation, which I'm sure will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u89	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Josef Zahradníček will give a 13th interview. He will intersect the absent Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on migration in Italy. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, colleagues, have a pleasant and good afternoon. It was not so long ago that we saw hundreds of thousands of migrants making use of their way to Europe through Italy. I don't know and I don't know what happened, but for weeks, maybe months, there's no mention in the media that Italy has had a problem with refugees headed for Europe. That is why I am asking you, Minister, and I ask you truthfully and unambiguously to answer the questions: What happened to peace in Italy? What lesson should our own Europe learn from the approach and example of the Italian Government to take care of refugees that it has managed to solve in such a short period of time such a big problem on its territory? I thank the Members for their attention, and I wish you a written reply and a prompt and rapid recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u91	I thank the honourable Member, who will be answered in writing. Mr Zdeněk Soukup, if present, will give the 14th interview. That's not the case. That's why I'm interrupting his intervention. We will proceed to the interview on 15th, and here Mr Karel Rais will present an interview with the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on eJustice, state and perspective. [[Member Zdeněk Soukup has arrived.]] I'll be helpful myself, Mr. Ambassador, unless anyone objects to this, and I'll have the interview brought to you again. I'm sorry. However, the Rules of Procedure are clear in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u92	So thank you, Mr President. [[He speaks inhaled.]] Dear Minister, there are statements from mosques in the Czech Republic and from some media speeches by Muslim representatives that, in my opinion, are fulfilling the substance of Section 356 of the Criminal Law. I quote from Article 1: Whoever publicly incites hatred of a nation, race, ethnic group, religion or class or other group of persons or to restrict the rights and freedoms of their members will be punished for up to two years in prison. Now, about the statements. Hassan Alrawi, head of Brno Muslims, advises members of his community on how to raise children. Quote: Your duty is to teach him to love Islam this time of year, teach him to hate the suitcase. The suitcase, it means coffees, unbelievers who don't believe in bůh. Vladimír Sáňka, Chairman of the Muslim village in Prague, is known. He publicly advocates the killing of Israeli civilians by Palestinec. It's conclusive. I made a literal record of the statement made by the director of the Muslim Union in the Czech Republic by Mohamed Abbas on two television shows. They tend to introduce the Muslim law of Sharia for Czech Muslims, especially the provisions relating to women. I think there's no need to quote them from the Muslim code. I made the elevator. I'll hand it over to the minister. Question for the Minister: Muslim communities received first-degree registration from the Ministry of Culture ten years ago or eleven years ago. Do you see if they're violating the rules of registration? Question two: Is it possible to cancel the registration for serious reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u93	I thank the honourable Member and ask the Minister of Culture for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u94	Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for this question to the honourable Member. I fully agree that if anyone violates the legal order of the Czech Republic, then it is necessary for it to be dealt with in accordance with our laws and regulations. That's absolutely right. About your question. The first stage of registration means nothing more than that a fact is made. Only second degree, so-called. second registration, allows the operation of so-called above-standard rights, i.e. participation in the legal order of the Czech Republic in the case of marriage, entry to schools, hospitals, various establishments of health, prison, army, police. Of course, this second stage already has certain very specific conditions that must be met. In any case, Muslim communities do not meet these conditions, but they themselves know that, so they do not ask for the second degree of registration. Even if this year, now, at this point, they ask, as it did not happen, they are still not entitled, ten years after the request, to grant them, purely because they have not yet submitted an annual report on their activities. That's one of the basic conditions. So even if they asked for it now, and they would have fulfilled the numerical census needed to apply for this second degree, they still have no right to do so for ten years. As far as the content is concerned, of course, this is being monitored, and the moment that there would be a conflict with our laws, then, of course, the law enforcement authorities must act. This is not the Ministry of Culture, but, of course, the laws must apply to anyone. I fully agree with you that it is not possible to abuse in any way, whether it is a mosque or any other spiritual space, the activities which are contrary to coexistence, respect for human rights, and if this is happening somewhere, it is necessary to draw attention to this and to make it very clear. So once again for the Ministry of Culture, for our department within our jurisdiction, even if, at this point, Muslim communities have applied for the second degree, they have not been entitled to it for at least ten years. But they know, which means they didn't even ask for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u95	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u96	I'm not so fluent right now, so I'll be smoother. So that means, Minister, that basically it is enough to announce the church, that means that even the scientists or other churches or sects, which are obviously in conflict with our legal order and with our practices, etc., will be given registration from the beginning?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u97	Those are the questions of the two levels of registration. The second stage, which is enjoyed by churches and religious societies established in the Czech Republic, is based on a certain practice that is here. Some have worked here for centuries, some have worked here for decades, their teachings are known, and these are those who have the right to participate in some way in the life of society, as I said. Those who do not meet these prerequisites do not have the right to receive this second degree of registration, it is merely stated that they operate on the territory of the Czech Republic without having any right to enter into any legal relations. This means, it is merely stated that this group operates here, but has no special rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u98	I thank the Minister of Culture for his response and now Mr Karel Rais, who will interpel the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on eJustice, state and perspective. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ministers. I am glad that I was drawn relatively later and that I have heard part of Mrs Nytrová's interpellation to Minister Robert Pelikán and his response to the matter of the natural digitalisation of courts and justice. I didn't know it was so dramatic, and I think that by introducing that really eJustice in that classic edition, not that I would have 50 information systems that weren't able to reach an agreement, and then we would have to walk through the mailrooms, so I think that by introducing this eJustice, it would make it significantly more effective and faster to do repeated actions, and also avoid frequent disorder, which is that, in essence, the writings are similar to tearing calendars quite often, because some materials are just disappearing. If this is because some judges and prosecutors abuse the lioness stamp in their favor, I do not know that of course, but in any case such a business in quotation marks would have been taken away from them in this way. [[16.00 hours]] On the other hand, I know that these changes in information systems need to be made quickly and that this is an extremely difficult task. In the end Machiavelli in his Vladar, in the book, which should be almost obligatory reading here for the MPs, he already talks about the fact that if the change fails, the enemy in quotes is clear, if it succeeds, everyone will forget about the minister, because everyone will think of it as their success if I paraphrase a little bit of Machiavelli. My questions so I don't misunderstand. I am really interested in the current situation or in a little bit more detail if the Minister were to discuss the development of eJustice within the Ministry of Justice and what his intentions are for the development of eJustice in the next two years, i.e. until the end of the term of office. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u100	I thank the honourable Member and ask the Minister of Justice. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u101	Thank you. The situation is actually even worse than what I've been able to describe here before, because not only do we have a lot of unconnected systems, but the problem is that the systems are in the hands of the companies that once created them for us. This means that, on the one hand, we do not want to develop these systems further because we know that this is simply not a perspective path and, on the other hand, even if we have to adjust them in some way, we are basically in pliers, because that society is the only one capable of doing so because it holds rights to the system and can dictate more or less the price. Ever since I got there, she hasn't dictated it, and we've been havin' a hard enough deal with them, but I still don't feel comfortable in that situation. The result is that we often don't even have good access to the data that's in those systems, so, for example, when I want some unusual statistics, and that's what happens to me, from county courts, we have to turn to the company that manages these systems and pay for every such question, which is unacceptable to me. For this reason, I consider the entire eJustice project an absolute priority of our ministry. It's something that should have been here a long time ago. The advantage we're hoping for, if we succeed, is that I can't even name them all here. And actually, maybe I'll just mention one thing that I think is extremely important, and that's that the electronic file as the basis of eJustice and the interconnection of all systems will make it possible for one file to be worked in multiple places at once. I'm always putting this on an example that's particularly paradoxical, when I have someone in custody, and he's gonna file a complaint in his custody decision. Because that's when the superior court decides on the complaint, and he needs a file to make the decision, so the file goes to the superior court, and paradoxically, the prosecution itself can't go any further until his complaint is decided. So he's been complaining because he doesn't want to be limited to his personal freedom, but he's actually risking that he's just gonna extend the restriction for a while. There is no such problem in the world of the electronic file because it will finally be possible to work in parallel in several places on one thing, it will finally be possible to actually make different control activities, supervisory activities, etc. they've been running online, so you don't have to wonder if they're gonna check there, because they know it means they're gonna get rid of these people's files for a while, and they're not gonna be able to work anymore. What's our progress? Since the system must be uniform, architecture is simple. Somewhere down there is a single data repository, or there will be a single data repository, next to it a single database, and then on some common platform individual application layers for individual offices and types of agendas will be programmed. At the moment we are competing or preparing a competition for data storage and database and at the same time we have already embarked on project works for the first of the applications and this is the area of state prosecutors. We chose that because it's a little easier terrain. It works that our IT is preparing the architecture itself. That's a huge change. It's not gonna be like we're gonna be addicted to some firm anymore. We'll figure out what it's supposed to look like, and the companies will just program us what we tell them, the dice we tell them, and that's the ideal way that it's going to be more companies. Everyone's gonna make a bone. So we will have full control of the future, and thus of development. So at this point, in cooperation with the state prosecutors, we're actually working on a proposal, an architecture, what it's supposed to look like at the state prosecutor's office, and I firmly believe that, in the course of next year, we should bring it to the pilot's stage and perhaps even sharp traffic. As soon as we get this right at the prosecutor's office, where we shut down the analogue at that point, turn off the paper and go into electronic form, we'll probably start at the same courthouse, we'll probably start with the administrative justice system -- it's a simpler agenda again, less broken -- and this is how we're supposed to electronize the entire justice system over the next two years. Wish us luck.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u102	Thank you, Minister. Mr Rais has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u103	Not even a supplement, more like a remark that I'm glad that's the absolute priority of the ministry. In time, you gave some kind of an idea. We're at a time when the state budget is actually being formed - so what about the people, what about the resources, what about the finances, how are you doing with the money, with the people? 'Cause today's a hell of a computer guy is relatively expensive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u104	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u105	Thank you for the additional question. We managed to get and create twenty new tables, which essentially doubled the IT department in terms of nominal numbers. Unfortunately, you're feeling right about what happened, which means we're very difficult to find people in those places. So far, in about six months of trying, we've hunted two. Unfortunately, there's really no pay-per-view competitiveness in this area. We have to motivate these people differently. I had a lecture the day before yesterday or when I was trying to find people there that I'd be excited about for a project that's really interesting, and so it's gonna last a while without money. Otherwise, the advantage of the system, the way we want to build it, is also that it's much cheaper. That means, all of a sudden, we're not - my predecessors, the relatively ancient predecessors, they had some plans that we found there, and those were things that were moving in the hundreds of millions, and it was closer to billions. That's why they didn't happen. We count in millions and tens of millions, and we believe that this is how it works. So we do not have a problem with funding in this regard. He's going to use the money from the EU. Unfortunately, we're having trouble paying our core employees. At this point, we are failing to do so because of the inflexibility of the civil servants' remuneration system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u106	Thank you, Minister. Before I give the floor to my colleague Markéta Adamová, I'll read the apologies. Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes today from 18 o'clock for health reasons and tomorrow, Friday, from 12 o'clock for the same reasons, Mr Milan Urban apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Jiří Koskuba apologizes today from 18 o'clock until the end of the sitting day, Mr Josef Zahradníček apologizes tomorrow, Friday 27 November, for family reasons, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologises today between 14.30 and 18 o'clock, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the hearing day for Pavel Matušovská, Mrs May Matìj Fichtner apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons, Mr Josef Vondrášek apologises today for 15 o'clock for personal reasons, Minister Pavel Bělobrádek apologises from 19 o'clock today for working reasons, Mr Matěj Fichtner apologises all day 26. 11., i.e. today, for work reasons and Mr Marek Ženíšek apologizes from 13:00 to 18:00 on a business trip. Minister Martin Stropnický apologizes today from 14 to 15.30 and Mr. Josef Vondrášek apologizes today from 15 o'clock for health reasons. Thank you. And now she has the floor with Mrs Markéta Adamová, who will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on the matter of public service. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u107	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, in March 2014, the Senate's proposal for an amendment to the Act on Material Need was sent to the Members, Parliament's press 156. Only in December last year was the law passed at first reading by the House. Quite soon he was discussed on the committee and since then, almost a year, he has not been able to access it. I know that this is a Senate proposal, but even in committee discussions it was clear that agreement across the political spectrum is beyond the need for greater public service support, which is the main intention of the amendment. Currently the unemployment rate in the Czech Republic is record low. He's doing 4.8 percent. Of course, we can be grateful for that, but we should not let it appease us. Despite the favourable trend, a large group of long-term unemployed remains. Our goal should be not to remain dependent on social benefits for a long time, but to try to get back into the work process. Back to the way of life that is based on its own efforts to take care of itself and your family, without the permanent help of the state. The public service aims to activate these citizens, resocialize them, motivate them to return to the labour market, but also to realise that it is normal to work. Madam Secretary, I ask you why you do not seek to re-establish the public service. Whether you consider this instrument beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u108	I thank the Member and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u109	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would just like to start by reminding you that the public service here worked quite well until it was changed by Mr. Ex-minister Drábek from TOP 09, so the Constitutional Court had to cancel it. However, as far as the Senate proposal is concerned, we, as the Ministry of Labour, participated in the amendment here to this proposal, in order to introduce more safeguards and to make it more motivating. This means for those people who are really unemployed in the long run, that there should be more severance for the reward than is in the Senate proposal. And again for people who then fall into certain categories, where the long-term unemployment really doesn't need to be entirely their fault when it comes to people over some age, so that it... or the disabled etc., so that it doesn't fall too hard on them. We have drawn it up, we have agreed, Mrs Kailová has borne the amendment. So we agree with the principles, but I'm not even an MP. And frankly, I didn't even think to make a government proposal because I knew he was already here. And we were involved in the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u110	I thank the Minister for a clear answer. Please, Madame, you have the floor and the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u111	I understand that this is your concern, too, so I would like to propose that we place this item in the hearing tomorrow, and we will see how the House stands up to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u112	Thank you, Mrs Adamová. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mrs Jana Hnyková will interpel the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the practical introduction of inclusion into practice. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, she's back, I'm glad. Last week, at the invitation of my colleagues, I visited the Zlínský and Olomouc Region, and during discussions with the mayors in Zlínský kraj, I learned how worried they are about the planned inclusion, which should start from 1 September 2016. I attended a practical school in Bystřice pod Hostýn. Here I learned that neither the principal nor the other educators nor the mayor had any information on the planned inclusion process. The day after that, I visited the city of Přerov. Here, too, I asked about this situation, and I received feedback the same way I did in Bystřice. If not for the non-profit organization Spoučinka, which initiated the seminar on this issue, where your employees were also Ministry, they would also know nothing. Therefore, Madam Secretary, I ask you how elementary schools, practical schools and mayors of individual municipalities will be informed about the planned inclusion. 'Cause it's gonna touch them the most. By what date will these institutions be familiar with the situation? What will happen to special educators in practical schools? They're gonna have to do an application, find another place? Where will they find application? And my last question - how do we ensure enough elementary school assistants? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u114	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková, and I will ask the Minister of Education. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u115	Mr President, honourable Members, Mrs Hnyková. Allow me to respond to your interpellation. First of all, I would like to say that, during the autumn months just after visiting the regions on my part, I have found a similar situation following the approval of the amendment to the School Act, which took place from the point of view of the President's signature in May of this year, with the fact that we have since then done the following. As regards the negotiations on the implementation of joint education following this amendment with regional representatives, three were held between March and December. The further education of teaching staff and other staff in terms of what is required by this amendment has taken place since the beginning of this year so far six of these seminars. Three meetings took place again from the point of view of directors within the advisory facilities. Since spring, from the point of view of education in regions where it is again intended for the staff of educational counselling facilities, dozens of them have been carried out from the point of view of regional workplaces and school advisory facilities. There were also three meetings of the head of the SPC. It was trained on three courses, however with several terms, another fifty lecturers, so-called. implementers, precisely this new way of training in connection with the amendment of the school law of NIDV workers and NIDV workers by the National Institute for Education. The NIDV expert meetings also took place with regard to the preparation of OP VVV templates. Training also took place on the status of school psychologists and school special educators. In addition, there was a meeting of NIDV regional authorities in terms of joint education. Here I point out - from September there were two and two more will take place by the end of the year and in 2016 we expect every month. At the same time, the initial training of school directors will take place between March and June 2016, i.e. in all areas of education, secondary education, secondary education and higher education, in areas aimed at understanding and implementing support measures by the NIDV. The information seminar for regional founders, regional authorities on 4 also took place. 11. 2015. [[16.20 hours]] In the future there will also be ongoing education of teaching staff of all parts, secondary schools, secondary schools and secondary schools and educational institutions, for the joint education of children, pupils and students in February 2016 to December 2018. I have detailed information on how this is going to work, but I will allow myself to proceed to your hands. These things are already being made public at the moment. Information seminar for founders in individual regions will take place in December 2015, training of other lecturers, which will be intended for educational staff of schools and educational establishments especially from practical and special schools is planned. Three courses are planned, the first course in January, two courses in February. In addition, information seminars will be held for the directors of schools and educational establishments in individual regions in January to February 2016, where in all regions it will be organized by the National Institute of Further Education, but teachers will of course be from all three institutions, i.e. MŠMT, NÚV and NIDV. In addition, there will be further training, but that is, I would say, in addition, during 2016 following European money from the OP VV. At the moment, I would like to say that we responded in September of this year to the very state that you described in your interview, so that a conference was convened by the Ministry of Education, where the founders of schools, directors, teachers and representatives of the professional public were just invited. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That was 19. 11. At the same time, following the feedback from the regional authorities and the School Commission of the Association of Regions, I personally and my co-workers will hold major seminars at four places in the territory of the Republic, all for about 300 people, from the point of view of the directors of the individual schools, and there will be detailed information about the current situation. [[Time, Madam Secretary.]] Of course, we published all the information on the occasion of the conference on 19 November, and I am, of course, available in person and then in more detail in writing on the basis of the specific questions you have asked. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u116	Thank you. Madam, before I give you my word, I will apologise to Mr Nekl, from 17 a.m. to the end of the day. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u117	Thank you. So I'd like to ask the Minister, you've described the whole set of information that should take place in the form of seminars. I want to ask if the D.O.D. is going to issue any methodical instructions, some kind of manual so these people can have it. Are they gonna get it at those seminars? On their part, when I spoke to them, I felt very intensely that they were in short supply at the moment. You, too, have confirmed that you have come to this information as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u118	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u119	Yes, that's how it's going to work. This means that it is not just an implementing decree, which is already in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, which will end on December 9th, and I assume its publication at the turn of 2015 and 2016, but it is, of course, also a technical methodical and organizational guide for each particular actor of the system, teacher, special teacher, assistant teacher, director, but also, of course, and this did not come out here, the key information for parents, because there we have also recorded a great deal of non-information from the point of view of joint education, both for parents of children in mainstream education and for parents of children who are currently using, for example, so-called primary schools practical. In short, I would just like to say that, first, the questions and answers of the models, the commentary on the overview of the support measures that is in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, and also on the decree, including the overview of the things that will be implemented at this time in 2016 so that everyone will have sufficient information, so that from 19 November they will be published on the website of the Ministry of Education, as well as the possibility that the professional public, teachers and directors, through a questionnaire that will not be responsible, interactive, will be able to send their comments on the decree and on the overview of the support measures. And as for the methodological and organizational guidelines, there is for us the main partner of the National Institute for Education, because it has to be said that the question here is really very technical in terms of special education, teaching, didactics. I am certainly aware that this is a very serious task, a very complex implementation, we pay the utmost attention to it and I believe, as I have the experience of always having meetings, explanations, additions to the information, so I have experience that most of the time the situation will calm down. But it's really true that there's still little information, but I believe that the situation will improve over the next month so that even you from the field can hear a calmer voice. And as for what you said last time, in that last interview, about the questions you asked in the last interview, I'm sorry, I'll answer outside. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u120	Thank you for respecting the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who will interpel the Minister of Germans. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u121	Good afternoon, absent minister, ladies and gentlemen. I came back from the Council of Europe's Health Committee from Paris tonight, so I'll share some more heat with you. In the Czech Republic, we have a relatively very good level of safety for registered medical devices and preparations, those that are officially distributed, but even our country cannot avoid a complete flood of all possible counterfeits, and they are not always harmless food supplements, but they can be, for example, anabolics, which are widely distributed in fitness centres. But they are also oncological preparations, biological medications, various weight loss preparations, which are full of internet. Sometimes they contain no active substance at all, sometimes they contain it in altered concentrations, and sometimes the composition of these "medicines" cannot be traced at all. Often using such resources leads to serious damage to health and life, as was the case, for example, with the case that we all remember, which were the defective breast implants. The Council of Europe calls for international cooperation because this phenomenon is cross-border and therefore has created a document as an instrument of international law, the so-called Medicrime Convention, which obliges States to accede to it to criminalise the production of such preparations, their dissemination, distribution and alteration of documents accompanying them. I wonder, Minister, whether the Czech Republic will join this international convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u122	Yes. The Minister will reply in writing. Mrs Maxová is withdrawing her intervention, so Mr Grospič has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to turn to Mr. Defense Minister Martin Stropnický by means of you. This concerns the future of forests in the former or still military retreat of Brdy, i.e. the protected landscape area of Brdy in the future. It is probably no secret that the Protected Landscape Area of Brdy does not completely overlap with the territory of the former military retreat, nor is it any secret that part of the protected landscape area of Brdy will continue to use the Army of the Czech Republic for its training and for its needs. In this context, I would like to ask whether it is also to be counted in the future that all forests in Brdy's former military retreat and now in the vast part of Brdy's Protected Landscape Area will continue to be managed by the Military Forests and how maybe the eventuality, which has already been addressed here in an interpellation, was raised by the Roman Catholic Church in particular in matters of the large estate in Rožmitál, which relate to the very part of the space of Brdy. [[16.30 hours]] In this context, it is also an unusual fact that these things were actually economically and economically settled and properly redeemed at the time of the emergence of military space in this area in the time of the first Republic. So this is what my question is about whether or not in the future these forests will be managed. The military forests, that they will not be the subject of restitutions under the requests of the Roman Catholic Church and will be preserved as one whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u124	Yes. The Minister of Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd be happy to answer that. Military forests and farmland of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, operates on the territory of a broken military retreat in the spirit of the principles of sustainable forest management, especially with regard to increasing biodiversity of forest trees, increasing the share of forest crop recovery and approximation of natural species composition of forests. In their activities they fully respect the legal order of the Czech Republic and take care of the property entrusted with the care of the proper economy. Even in the preparation of the process of optimization and cancellation of military retreats Military forests and goods of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, collaborated with the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency, hereinafter AOPK, to prepare the announcement of CHKO Brdy, their basic document, such as the plan of care and management after the creation of CHKO. This will be fully consistent with these documents. In all areas such as the restoration, protection, training and mining of forest crops and other activities providing the function of forest or watercourse care, the military forests and farms will cooperate with the management of the Brdy CHKO as well as with the municipalities concerned. Even in securing other functions of the forest, such as the care of visitors, the Czech military forests and goods are prepared to perform the role of a proper economic operator, e.g. building of parking lots, information centers or nature house. As far as the current management or activities of the Military Forests and Goods Vojáček are concerned, I must say that this is an enterprise which is one of the most reliable and best-cooperative as a partner with the Ministry of Defence and also after the exchange of the Director by the former Dean of the Agricultural College, Mr. It is not known to me that in connection with the abolition of the Brda training or military departure and the introduction of the CHKO, the transition would be burdened with some kind of property or restitution burden. In connection with the reduction of other military retreats, which goes hand in hand, as we all seem to know, with the abolition of Brdy's military retreat, this is a series of transfers of assets to the respective municipalities. So all of this is part of, by the way, the material that the government will still be discussing in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u126	The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u127	Yes, thank you to Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnickýý for this answer and I think it is fully sufficient for me at the moment. Nevertheless, I would like to ask one more question as to whether it is also envisaged in the material that the government will still consider whether the care of those forests would be passed on to another organisation, i.e. to the les of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u128	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u129	Thank you for the floor. I can assure you, Mr President, that by changing, virtually. the cancellation of a military retreat will not change the care of the entrusted territory. Management of Military Forests and Goods is certified in ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 systems, which are also a guarantee of environmental protection, and Military Forests and Farms do not plan any, naturally, sale of land or infrastructure within the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u130	Thank you. The next will be Mr Bendl, who intersects the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u131	Mr Vice Prime Minister, in the House, we are running ahead of each other in the proposals that are more and better able to avoid tax evasion by regulation of gambling and possibly other negative effects that gambling has on the young generation in particular. In this situation, the coalition in Kladno, representing the ANO movement, the KSČM and the Vote for the City, decided without compensation to cancel the regulation of gambling in Kladno. I note that the town of Kladno has a very negative experience with gambling and there are groups of people who use this area a lot, at the expense of living properly. Nevertheless, the ANO, KSČM movement and the City's Choice decided to cancel the gambling decree. I ask you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, whether this is the standard behaviour of the ANO movement or whether it is excess or what you will do with this situation. If you say anything else in the Chamber of Deputies and represent and do something else in local or future regional benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u132	Yes, the Minister will reply in writing. Another is Mr Šincl also for the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u133	Dear Sir, once again absent first Vice-President of the Government, the Government by its resolution No. 165 of 12. 3. 2014 has entrusted you with the task of preparing a draft law on betting games with the deadline for submission to the government in final form by the end of 2014 and with the deadline for expected effectiveness of September 2015. Unfortunately, you failed to fulfil this task, as the government was in fact discussed as far as 29. 7. 2015 and now, thanks to this huge delay, it is only at first reading. Unfortunately, illegal operators who, in the current situation in our country, operate their games without any taxation or regulation, are primarily pleased with this laxity of yours. You advocated this delay by needing time for a flawless, perfect preparation of the draft lottery law so that it would stand up in the notification procedure with the European Commission. Unfortunately, he didn't. The European Commission, Malta and Austria have issued so-called a detailed opinion, where they point to a number of problems of your proposed law. For this reason, I would like to ask you the following questions: 1. What is your estimated timetable for the legislative process in the Czech Parliament, i.e. When, in your opinion, is it real for the proposed legislation governing this area to be adopted? 2. When and how and when the detailed opinions of the European Commission, Malta and the comments made by Austria in relation to the draft Gaming Act in the framework of the notification procedure pursuant to Directive No. 2015/1535? 3. In your opinion, will the date of entry into force of the laws in question create an information system for the operation of gambling to ensure supervision of the proper operation of gambling? In the event that such a system is not fully developed on the date of application of the legislation in question, how will the Ministry of Finance ensure proper supervision of gambling operations? And one last question. [[Time!]] Will the new system of regulation and authorisation of management be launched on a provisional basis without fully developing this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u134	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who intersects Mr Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u135	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I appeal to you, Mr Vice-President of the Government, on your counsellor's statement, or in what position he is next to you, I don't know exactly, Martin Schmarz. Yesterday, his Facebook page was printed saying he'd like the Rus to attack and attack Turkey. Since the plane was shot down, the Russian plane that was shot down by the Turek, I believe that Counselor Schmarz is calling for some kind of retaliation. [[16.40 hours]] I want to ask you this. It is clear that Turkey has been a member of the North Atlantic Alliance since 1952. If the advisor to the Office of the Government or the person who falls under you says that the Rus should fly in, bomb, attack against it, it is clear that this act would be triggered by Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty on the grounds that if one of the members is attacked, then everyone else is in his defense. There would be a huge conflict of war. That's what your advisor calls for. So I want to ask you in what specific capacity Mr Martin Schmarz is working, whether he is really a government adviser, or just your advisor, in what area he advises you in, because if it is in security-military-international, it is a tragedy. And thirdly, if you think that the person who is under your authority is supposed to just send these things on the air without consulting you about the severity of the impact of such words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u136	Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u137	Mr President, Madam President, thank you. I am Mr. Schmarz, who is my advisor, not for foreign policy or for defence and security policy, already scolded in the morning without waiting for an interview. We talked about it, he admitted it wasn't happy. Anyway, the statute was an expression of some frustration when Turkey, in his view, acted irresponsiblely, as he explained to me. So, to your first question, he's my advisor on media support issues. The answer to the second question is: yes, I think it was not appropriate, and I have already made good on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u138	I will ask the honourable Member if she wishes to speak. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u139	Well, I'd like to hear fourthly that screaming from my point of view doesn't mean much, because it's a fatal misstep. When he gets in another area subordinate to such a situation that he will make his superior, in your case a high constitutional officer, very awkward when I say politically dangerous situation, the spree on my part seems very little. So I'm dissatisfied with this part of your answer. I don't think this kind of person has anything to do with the Office of the Government. But I understand that you're taking responsibility for him, and that's all behind you. I gave your parliamentary rapporteur here this morning the answer to asking me what to ask, so I gave you the opportunity to prepare yourself. I didn't want to surprise you with that look on this question, but I consider it very serious. I'm not happy with your answer because it doesn't solve anything, but I take it you've made that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u141	Mr President, my colleague, my fellow Members, through the President, I would like to say that this was an expression on Facebook, the article which was on the Parliamentary Sheets, did not correspond exactly to what was then in line with the debate below. You need to look at the other statuses that are written there. One says that it was a certain image expressing the frustration of how the incident took place, with the fact that it was his private profile. However, I understand that this is a public space kind of on the social network, and it is obvious that this expressive criticism of how Turkey was doing, and since the incident, it has basically put NATO away as such, with the Turek, as you can see, taking a bit backwards, because I think that such an incident is not very pleasant to anyone. From this point of view, I believe that the consequences may, of course, be higher, and I will think about it, but I have responded this morning. And the fact that it wasn't happy, I admit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u142	So please, Mrs Alena Nohavová, who will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u143	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, pensions are to be increased by CZK 40 next year, according to the formula for price growth and a third of the growth in real wages. Retirement people see it, and rightly, as a mockery. They're outraged, and I'm afraid I have to give them the truth. Even I would feel that way in their place. Rather than getting an added ridiculous amount, maybe it's better to get nothing. The one-off contribution, which we have tried to at least alleviate the worst effects, is considered by most pensioners to be classic sticky, if not directly as a political bribe. But it doesn't solve the situation systemically. A similar situation did not happen for the first time, and unfortunately, if the laws did not change systemically, probably not the last. What are we going to do if inflation prices and wages stagnate next year and the increase in pensions will again be a ridiculous parody according to the current formula for the following year, perhaps just four crowns? Are we going to send them, too? Are we going to search for paths through one-off posts again? We're gonna re-appreciate it like we did in a marijuana, whether to add six hundred, a thousand, or twelve hundred? Are we, as Members, really prepared to commit political suicide, or will you change the existing law? Is that why I ask, Madam Secretary, are you ready to prepare and enforce a system solution? If so, how and when will you propose to the government such a valorisation mechanism that will ensure proportionate and, above all, dignified valorisation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u144	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u145	Mr President, colleagues, as far as the current auditing rules are concerned, this has been valid for many years with a certain exception to the previous governments. And I, in fact, when this government came in, one of the first things I was carrying on the government was to put back the mechanism as it is today, and at the same time in spring 2014, I was also bringing in a proposal for the government to regain authority in some exceptional cases, when it would just be low valorisation, to increase it. In fact, for 2015, the government guaranteed a certain level of valorisation beyond the mechanism. However, at that time one of the coalition parties, the YES movement, was against it. The fact that this has happened - I think otherwise that pensions should really grow as inflation and real wages are, that there is nothing wrong with it. And unfortunately, with some delay, the indexes are showing up. So, like you, the 40 crowns, of course, are a complete mockery for me, which is why this year it was compensated by the one-off contribution. And the fact that he's sorry for his amount, well, that's just because of the fact that there's 2,9 million people who have a pension, which is almost a third of our population, or that's almost a third of our population. So every slightest increase in the state budget, when it is multiplied, unfortunately, is doing a fairly large amount. Otherwise, I repeat that I, too, carried on to the government this year's proposal that valorisation be fixed to a certain percentage so that this would not happen, and again we were on our own behind the ČSSD, so it didn't work out. But it didn't just come true for budget reasons. It is now expected that these indicators will be more favourable for valorisation from 2017 onwards and that the current mechanism, as it is, should indeed be between 200 and 300 crowns. And for a situation where the situation with the very low inflation should be repeated again, actually, a group of coalition experts, which now defines the parameters of the mandate for the government, which we have all agreed now that it should be. And I'd just like to remind you that I think there's been about 15 years here, and in that time, different governments have used them three times, I think.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u146	Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u147	In the remaining time, I would like to ask a question, which I, too, receive when meeting with our citizens, whether it would not be a more appropriate solution to regularly valorize all pensioners' pensions by a fixed amount. In particular, lower pensions in the range of up to 10,000 so far, the percentage valorisation does not result in these pensioners being threatened by falling into poverty. And using only a percentage valorization, the scissors between seniors continue to open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u148	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u149	Yes, that's what we're discussing, too. At the moment, however, one of the proposals that is already going into the legislative process will probably guarantee a certain minimum amount of the smallest pension given the minimum amount of living. But as far as this proposal is concerned, you're right, I hear it too. However, here we have a verdict - I think it was the Supreme Court, or even the Constitutional Court, which once attacked us for having a system that is too solidarity-based and is actually in a way discriminatory to those people who made a lot of money in their lives because there is a ceiling. So we're still here on this proposal of yours, we're actually bailing out that we'd like to add more to the low-income, but actually we can't, because that's actually what those people who have had very high earnings and don't get pensions at the relative level they should.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u150	We'll continue with the next interpellation. This is the interpellation of Mr Ludvík Hovorka to the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u151	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies asked your ministry to examine the expert opinion of the Czech Technical University Kladno and report whether the expert opinion on the acquisition of special tomographers for CEITEC Masaryk University was not violated by the law on experts, especially in the part of the award of the subject. Your assessment of this opinion showed that the opinion did not meet the requirements of the Decree on the Law on Experts and Interpreters, that the opinion lacks precise wording of the award, respectively. a list of questions to be answered that the revised expert opinion is completely unexplorable in determining the normal price of SIEMENS instruments and does not contain any quantified data that the expert opinion does not contain any list of documents examined, namely reference contracts, although the Institute was undoubtedly obliged to provide specific and verifiable data in the assessment. However, none of these attributes meets the expert opinion and is thus burdened by a fundamental lack for which it is not only unreviewable but also non-reproductive, and therefore incomplete from the point of view of good expert practice in the Czech Republic. In conclusion, Minister, you would point out that the findings made are not entirely relevant to the accuracy of the expert conclusion and cannot be interpreted in such a way that they relate to the assessment of whether or not the awarded tomographers were overpriced. The revision of the expert opinion in its part directly related to the valuation of the case would require the execution of an independent review valuation with its own statement of value, respectively. the usual price of the purchased item. Dear Minister, what is to be chosen from your opinion by the Chamber of Deputies Audit Committee? You accurately assess what the expert's opinion should have contained and what to answer, but you yourself, Minister, do not answer the fundamental question raised as to whether the expert's opinion in question was not violated by the law on experts, particularly in the part of the award of the case. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u152	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u153	Thank you. Let me just explain the context. For a very long time there was administrative practice at the Ministry of Justice, according to which the Ministry of Justice refused to review the content of expert opinions and basically only checked whether there were as many stamps as there should be, and whether it was nicely tied up. I have decided to change this administrative practice, and for this reason this September I succeeded in establishing the first advisory body under the direction of Professor Mařík - precisely in the area of valuation, Professor Mařík is a universally respected authority in this area - and we began to look inside the opinions. Unfortunately, this particular assessment has been made twice in our country. Once again before the change in the administrative practice and once on the basis of your initiative after it. By being with us once before, our deadline has run pre-slip, in which we can pay any sanctions. So now that we have had time, we could no longer draw any further conclusions, which you obviously and fairly rightly call for, and we considered it necessary to share with you our conclusions, when we actually stated that according to my advisory body's conviction the opinion does not meet the legal requirements. But I repeat what you quoted yourself. It doesn't necessarily mean that the conclusions are wrong. Only the opinion is completely unreviewable, because it is not clear what the expert institute was based on. So we finally have that choir in the future, so I believe that we will not have this sort of thing happening to us in the future. brát of it as the first little swallow to assassinate the experts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u154	Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u155	Thank you for your answer. I'm glad that you've set up an advisory board and that you're dealing with the essence of these expert opinions. However, I will not resist being very surprised by the paragraph at the end of your statement: a proposal can also be accepted if the bias of the expert institute in the matter is indisputable if it has at its disposal material fulfilling the requirements of an independent investigation to supplement this expert opinion and also add concrete and verifiable data, including methodological procedures, which led it to an expert conclusion. I'd like an answer. Either it's an expert's opinion relevant or it's not, and then it's at the point of withdrawal of the authorization stamp. Or do you, as Minister of Justice, admit that in the event of a violation of the law, all will be resolved by adding an expert opinion? I don't think it should be like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u156	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u157	I'm gonna try to make myself more clear. In order to remove a stamp or otherwise affect an expert, the Ministry must respond within a certain time limit, which is calculated from the moment it is known about the error, and that is when it receives any incentive. Unfortunately, we've gotten him historically before. At the time, he argued in the ministry that if it had all the cuffs, we'd let it go. That's all the time we've had. If you wanted me to admit it this hard, I'm afraid I have to admit it hard here. I'm sorry, but it's true. If this happens now that we have that advisory board, we won't be out of time. [[17,00 hours]] But to the other thing, what do you ask? We don't really know if the expert did his job well, because he just didn't describe her in that expert opinion. He put the result there, but he didn't explain how it got there. And so we know from our practice that it doesn't necessarily mean that the result is wrong. Unfortunately, this is why we are introducing these measures. And so it's theoretically at least, but maybe even practically possible that when he's called "let's see, my dear expert, how did you come by it" it turns out that the entire assessment is fine. I simply cannot, on the basis of what I have at my disposal, say what it was, because the opinion for lack of justification is unreviewable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u158	Mr Bendl withdraws, so please Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who will interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, if he can hear me, if he could come to the meeting room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u159	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Minister, for coming to the Chamber. Last year I probably interviewed the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic about your trip to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, where a conference took place on 5 and 6 November 2014, which was attended by your generous sponsor, Mr. Luděk Sekyra, Professor Halík or actress Polívková as an escort. At that time the cost of this trip was more than 790 thousand. Crowns. Well, he met for a year and there's another trip. The date of 11. 11. you traveled to Malta by a government special, where a summit on the refugee crisis took place. This time none of your sponsors accompanied you, or at least I don't know about it yet, but your wife and your son accompanied you. Someone might ask why and what their program was. I'm not gonna ask that question. I don't really care. I'm pretty good at answering my own questions. I call it a family trip. I note that from the original cost of 250 thousand. This trip cost 420 thousand. When asked why this happened, we learned from the mouth of the government spokesperson: "They are not," meaning your wife and your son, "part of the official delegation and will not participate in the Deputy Prime Minister's work programme." I have a question for you. Do you, Minister, consider a government squadron a free travel agency of your family, your friends or sponsors of KDU-ČSL? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u160	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u161	Mr President, colleagues, honourable Members, through Mr President, as regards the trip to Great Britain, you have mentioned two people, Mr Halík and Mrs actress Polívková. Neither of them flew on that plane. Mr. Halík was neither on the plane nor on his way there nor back. Information isn't exactly accurate. In addition, there was a wider programme including celebrations of the 25th anniversary of the so-called Velvet Revolution, and there was a big event at the Czech and Slovak embassies, which included two former premieres. So it's just for refills. Regarding the cost of traveling to Malta: certainly the difference, which is about 170 thousand crowns, was not caused by my wife or my son, and no more costs were incurred. As for the hotel accommodation, I paid for it. Here I can provide you with documentation that I've been paying, I have a check from the hotel. As far as the aircraft is concerned, no additional costs were incurred there. Originally, we were supposed to be off, the fact that we flew together in the end was that I was supposed to be on vacation. Of course, I don't consider a government squadron a travel agency. The state did not suffer any cargo in this direction and the increased cost of traveling to Malta was that the Prime Minister originally should not have flown there and flew there because then there was a council which he attended. I then represented him at my own summit, where I also gave a speech, so we solved it this way. I can say that in this respect, it didn't really cost this state a penny. I must say that one day, it is certainly not worth the time they were there and when the wife also paid attention to the Consul because it was not official but unofficial. So I'm definitely not going to be in this case, and it's not worth repeating any of these things to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u162	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u163	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, thank you. I'm not going back to Great Britain, we talked about it last year, and it's over. In the past, I was investigating the President of the Supreme Audit Office, who was also nominated for KDU-ČSL by chance, and he had a similar fondness for taking his wife with him whenever he went abroad. At the time, I asked these questions here in the Chamber of Deputies, and there was a brief answer that they considered it immoral. I think it should be the same in this case, and if I may ask you, we see it not quite well. It's probably not the right signal for voters and citizens. I'm not saying there's an increase in costs, the plane's flying for the same amount of money, whether it's ten or fifteen people. I'll call it immoral. The way you deal with it, it's kind of up to you. Thank you for the invoice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u164	I'll ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister. He doesn't want to get out. Mr Grospič, who will interpel the Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u165	Hello. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, on 12 February 2015, I gave an interview concerning the reconstruction of the railway line 071 Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav in terms of capacity planning or still being planned in two stages for this year and next year, namely for 2015 and 2016, in stage 2015 Luštěnice - Mladá Boleslav outside these railway stations and in 2016 Veleliby up to Luštěnice, again outside these railway stations, with the possibility of increasing the capacity of this line, and also considering increasing the permeability of some other railway stations, i.e. displaced mainly by taking into account freight transport, which takes place along this railway line. In the current year, on the contrary, there was an extensive lockout and reconstruction of the railway line 070 in the range of Všetaty - Bakov nad Jizerou, which followed the previous reconstruction of this line from Bakov nad Jizerou through Turnov to Tanvald, which I therefore understand, but I would like to ask whether there is still a current plan for the reconstruction of the line 071 Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav, whether the reconstruction of the main railway station in Mladá Boleslav is planned, and whether in this context and how the work on the so-called alljan connection was progressed, that is to say the link of the line from Milovice to that line 071 Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav, with the fact that at the beginning of the year, that is in February, this condition was in the state of about four project variants studies, so whether there was already an assessment of these project studies and it was decided to start. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u166	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, let me briefly introduce you to the current events around the line Mladá Boleslav - Nymburk and the all-jans. There is currently a construction called capacity increase Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav 1. construction. This is a construction which aims to make the line available for freight transport needs in connection with the requirement of Škoda Auto, a. s. The content of this section is a solution in the section Luštěnice - Mladá Boleslav. The planned completion of the construction is in December 2016. Investment costs are CZK 920 million. In preparation there is also a construction called capacity increase Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav 2. construction. Its start is expected in October 2017, completion then in December 2018 and construction costs are CZK 505 million. The proposal for a solution to the alljanian connection is part of the upcoming update of the feasibility study Prague - Liberec, which will assess all possibilities of modernization of railway infrastructure in this direction. For the next procedure it will be necessary to ensure the processing of the feasibility study of modernization of the railway connection Prague - Liberec in order to find an economically efficient variant. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved in the last ten years. SŽDC is currently preparing to enter this update. The Ministry of Transport agrees that the construction of a short section between Milovice and Čakovice is an interesting possibility in the development of railway infrastructure in the territory of the Central Bohemia Region. A separate solution to the establishment of the new construction of the alljanian coupling without the current solution of the downstream sections of the railway infrastructure could have a negative impact on the assessment of all transport potential with the current negative impact on the economic assessment of the project. After processing the update of the feasibility study, it is expected to find and approve an economically efficient version of the modernisation suitable for further preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u168	I will ask the Member if he wants to speak. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u169	Thank you. Minister, I would like to thank you for this answer, although it is in general information that is also widely known and available to me. I would like to assure you that today we have on 26 November, if I'm not mistaken, and so far no 071 reconstruction from Nymburk to Mladá Boleslav has begun. It may also be in the preparation or intention phase and will be at the end of this year. To the intended study, I would just like to say that I also understand that it is a prerequisite for the capacity of this line and then the implementation of the alljan link. However, I would ask you to take this matter as a serious priority, which would significantly help rail transport not only in this region, but also in connection with Prague with Mlada Boleslav and Liberec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u170	Yes. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u171	Dear Member, just to clarify, the construction of the increase in the capacity of the Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav line is in preparation and the actual start is only calculated in a year and a half, so it has not started yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u172	Thank you. Please, Mrs Radka Maxová, who will interpel the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u173	Madam Secretary, in February, a development programme was announced to increase salaries in the state sector. Nothing happened for a while and in June the Ministry of Education and Youth announced a development programme under number 19436/2015-2 for private and church schools and deleted an uneven approach. In November this year, a development programme for increasing salaries in the state sector was announced again. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports says that the money from 2015 to October will receive these schools in standardizations in 2016, which is fine. The money from November 2015 and the increase that will take place in 2016 will not be received until 2017, which, in my view, is an extreme discrimination that has not yet been made. The financial settlement delay will reach up to 14 months. In my opinion, the Ministry of Education could continue the February scenario and create a development programme for private and church schools to match funding announced on 1 November as soon as possible. I add that in the previous ministers, the vast majority of development programmes were declared for all types of founders on the same dates and under the same conditions. I therefore see no reason why the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports should make differences between beneficiaries, which are ultimately pupils. So I would like to ask you to clarify whether the year 2017 is really well written, as I have received it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u174	Thank you, and please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u175	Mr President, honourable Members, on the basis of an interview by the honourable Member, I confirm that there has really been no increase in funding for private schools. The reason for this is the different legal regulation of private schools compared to public schools in terms of funding. It is not that we want private schools to lose their legitimate claims, but it is indeed a method of financing, where according to their law the amount that is being charged to them is based on previous annual standards of the previous year. This means that we have done so much for private schools in accordance with the law that, in the draft budget for 2015, we have won the part of the funds corresponding to the increase from the previous year, so that is the amount they received, but actually a year later. In the same way, we used the sum for the 2016 budget at the Ministry of Finance and obtained it for private schools in terms of the 2015 increase. This means, in terms of funding, private schools simply receive increased funding a year later. So much for short. All the additional funds, which were discussed professionally and applied to the Ministry of Finance from my side, were rejected. And as for previous years, in previous years before our government, the problems did not arise because there was no increase in tariffs, i.e. there were no differences. So brief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u176	I will ask if the Member wishes to speak. [[He does.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u177	I'd like to ask you one more time, because it didn't say 2017. It sounded 2016. Well, if there's a 14-month delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u178	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u179	Yes, that's right. So on top of that increase, which is actually going to be 2016, we're going to negotiate against the claims of private schools in the indicative budget numbers for 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u180	Thank you and please Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, who will interpel Mr Dienstbier. [[He's absent.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u181	Dear Minister, I'm going to start my interpellation quite unusually. My 92 - year - old grandmother in her student years came to Romani families, where it was her job to teach children in these families the Czech language, mathematics, to learn to prepare for school, basic hygiene habits and so on. As I said, my grandmother is 92 years old this year. And I ask: Where have we moved the Romani ethnicity over the last 70 years? What percentage of Rom people have high school education? What percentage of Rom people have higher education? How much does the integration of Rom people cost to our society of money? And what is the overall effect of these human and financial investments? What percentage of the Romani population does majority population work actively for a year or longer? What results do we have from the integration and education of the Roma population? Dear Minister, are we making any mistakes? Shouldn't we work differently with the Romani population? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u182	Thank you. You will receive the answer in writing. Please, Mr Kučera is withdrawing, so please Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u183	Dear absent Minister, at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we have reached the first swallow, the first amendment to the approved service law. [[Dienstbiere]] We all know that in connection with the need to solve problems in Czech diplomacy. Of course, there are more issues that occur very quickly after the approval of the Service Act and which point to its problems. One such important thing is the warning from the President of the State Office for Nuclear Safety, Mrs Dana Drábová, that the practical application of this law makes it impossible, in fact, to gradually restore the Office's staff on the principle of expertise. That, in short, the consequences of this law lead to no one applying for tenders because such experts cannot be adequately paid. We have repeatedly pointed out the problem of penetrating both the academic sphere and the private sphere. I am directing this interview to you because I am interested in whether there is currently some first reflection at the level of the government of the Czech Republic as a result of the approved form of the Service Act, whether the government itself is preparing any amendment in the discussions between the various departments in the evaluation of initiatives of this type. Our MP club has tabled several amendments that we are trying to address those first observations with the validity of the Service Act, and I expect the argument that, as usual, the parliamentary amendments are non-systemic, that it is necessary to wait for a system solution by the government. That is why I want to get the information in advance whether such an argument is relevant, whether at government level any such evaluation is being prepared, so that we can possibly argue that this is not true, that our procedure is rational and that our proposals represent the opportunity to get to an accelerated solution. Unfortunately, the fact that the Minister is not present and the time limits relating to the responses to the interpelations can lead to the fact that this answer, whether the government is working at this level, will not be obtained until, so to speak, useless to me in connection with our initiative on amendments, but I would still like the Minister as President of the Legislative Council of the Government to express whether such an activity is already taking place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u184	Thank you. Mrs Adamová withdraws her intervention, so Mr Leoš Heger, who interpels the Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, my second interview to the absent Minister of Health will be quite brief and concerns health insurance and, in particular, health insurance for foreigners. The question of this security has again set out and discussions have emerged, raised by a number of threatening migrants, even though so far too many have not arrived to us. But it can't be forgotten that there are already a number of foreigners established here who do not have the health insurance satisfactorily resolved. This concerns foreigners who are not usually granted permanent residence here, but are employed here, and especially their children and wives who cannot fall into the public health insurance system. They have a number of problems with both price and coverage and various exclusion of commercial health insurance. The Health Committee has called on the Ministry of Health several times to address this problem, which is still being pushed away. My question is whether something is being prepared at that time in the Ministry or the problem is still unsolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u186	Thank you, too. Mr. Šincl, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Given that the Minister is not here again, I would give up my interpelation and hope, I really hope that the Minister will finally start fulfilling his duties, as he often says in the media and in the public, he will really start working, which means here, specifically in the Chamber of Deputies, and will respond to the interpellation of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u188	Thank you. Please, Mrs Olga Havlová, who will intersect the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, after the demonstration on November 17 at Albertov in Prague, you published a statement that anyone who incites hatred of some religions will be punished in prison for up to two years, as Section 356 of the Criminal Code says. Then, in an interview for the demonstration of thousands of citizens at Albertov, you said: Police have a duty by law to prosecute all criminal activities they learn about. And I feel like there were a lot of cops out there, thinking about Albertov. Minister, at Albertov there were representatives of the Dawn - a national coalition, representatives of the Bloc against Islam with thousands of other people, and there were no displays of hatred here at all. I hope you've verified exactly what happened on Albertov before you started talking to the media as Minister of Justice of the Czech Republic about the police's duty to prosecute speeches from Albertov. And if you're saying in the media, and here I quote you, there were enough officers in Albertov to start prosecuting, I want you to have a clear answer as to who of the performers in Albertov is to be prosecuted and for what statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u190	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Madam President, you have ripped that sentence out of context and turned it in the exact opposite direction. That was the answer to the question of whether I would file any criminal charges. And I said that the police are legally obliged to prosecute all the crimes they learn about, and that the police were, as far as I know, a lot on Albertov. That means I'm letting the police know if there was a crime, and I'm counting on the fact that if she saw one, I wasn't even on Albertov, she's gonna prosecute him, too. And notice that even after that, I never said anything about it again, and I will no longer comment because I don't want it to look like the Minister of Justice is putting pressure on anyone to be prosecuted. At some point, I thought it appropriate to point out that we had some provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure, because I felt that the public was beginning to come close to its edge, maybe even crossing it, and maybe they didn't even know that there was such a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure. So it was my part, and everything else is completely different, and I had nothing to do with it, and I wouldn't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u192	Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u193	I'd just like to tell the Minister that I didn't tear anything out of context, because you're going to file a criminal report, for example, I didn't ask you at all, that's what the journalists at iDNES asked you. I've got it printed out here. And as Minister, you shouldn't anticipate such things, and you should be sure of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u194	Please, Minister, if you're interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u195	Well, that's what I said the press asked me to file a criminal report. So I took the liberty of supplementing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u196	Thank you. Please, Mr Jiří Valenta, who will interpel the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u197	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, once again I ask you for an exception to Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on Animal Protection, concerning the so-called The ritual defeat of halal. For all those who do not know the halal slaughter of animals, it should be repeated that this method consists in the bled out of the slaughtered animal by recapture of its throat arteries in full consciousness. This is directly contrary to the dictum of that law, which requires the slaughtered animal to first stun, and then it is possible to kill and bleed it out. The ritual is carried out with the intention of maintaining the consciousness of the slaughtered animal as long as possible so that it is possible to hear the recitation of Islamic sacred verses during the gradual loss of blood. You're me on this forum in May. he replied: I say frankly, in the order of one two months, and I remind you again, I want to end negotiations if we are able to find a compromise solution so that we can achieve that defeat is at least painful, or in this case I am considering seriously ending these exceptions, which have been made possible in the Czech Republic since 1993. And I also asked you in May for written information, but since then, unfortunately, it has been quiet by foot. Unfortunately, I have not forgotten your political misfortune. According to my reports from representatives of various animal protection associations, you have somehow been aired in idle discussions with religious communities, which in itself is rather strange, because naturally it is not in the interests of these municipalities to abolish the exemption. Therefore, make it clear to me once more, and please also in writing, how far you are with the realisation of your public promise. Or was it just a populist expression on your part in the sense that the wolf would eat and the goat would stay whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u198	Thank you and the Minister of Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u199	Thank you. Mr President, Members, Mr Valenta. I need to say a few facts about your interpellation. The first, perhaps the most fundamental, which you have spoken so emotionally about here - it is necessary to realise that the halal defeat for the Muslim community is significantly identical to kosher defeat for the Jewish community. It must be said that when you talk about something in principle, then talk about the overall problem, not just in relation to one religious community, but to both religious communities. Then I would like to say that your information with the recitement of prayer was contradicted last time, and I am contradicting it today, because that is not the reason. The reason is that the animal should be bled out, and therefore this slaughter is carried out here in this way, when during the bled-out period the heart muscle is still in action for some time, which better helps to bleed out the animal and then the meat. As for the other things, we started negotiations during the holidays. I was present at the beginning of those negotiations, at one meeting with representatives of the Jewish community, so representatives of the Muslim community, then I asked my commodity deputy Mr. Šnejdrla to continue the negotiations, which they still continue and the negotiations have not ended, so I do not have a final decision today whether or not we decide to cancel the exemption. It's not a question of populism, I'm simply saying that these negotiations have not been concluded. That's what I can give you as information at this point. If you require it, as you said, I'd be happy to give you this in writing. So that's probably the key thing I can answer for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u200	Thank you, Minister. Mr Valenta has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u201	Thank you, Minister. Of course, I'll wait for your answer, and this time I'll be watching her really closely than for the last time. So you promised me more or less last time, and nothing happened. But we will not argue about whether it is an exception for the Jewish community or for the Muslim community. This is not the object of this. I would just quote again what you said earlier: Experts on veterinary medicine today give other opinions in relation to the loss of consciousness of large livestock in the case of cattle, which according to some studies is not in the order of seconds or tens of seconds, but say that there is a time of loss of consciousness over 120 seconds, which is a time when the animal can generally be said to suffer at that moment. So that's my point exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u202	Thank you. I'm asking if the Minister still wants to take advantage of the answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u203	Thank you. So, of course, what you said, I'm not gonna contradict you, it's still going on, and we're analyzing these things, if possible, because in some countries of the world, we've managed to find a consensus where the Jewish or Muslim communities have agreed with the state administration to allow some kind of stun there, and that's what we and these representatives are dealing with. Then we should decide to either modify it or cancel the exemption. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u204	I thank the Minister, and this interpelation is over. Before we continue, let me state Mrs Jitka Chalánková's apology from 18.15 pm for working reasons for today's next meeting. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is intersecting Minister Daniel Herman. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u205	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a confession to make. In yesterday's debate over the draft state budget, you completely messed with my head, much more than you think. On the amendment, which should strengthen the subsidy programme at the Ministry of Culture for the restoration of cultural monuments, you said the following: Of course, this amendment contains needs that would certainly benefit and help the restoration of our conservation fund. On the other hand, as a member of the government, I perceive the limits of real possibilities, and I must say that the fact that, even next year, we have only one billion earmarked for the restoration of monuments for the national cultural treasure, about three quarters of a billion for other conservation grants, so it is, I think, a level that is very interesting. And negotiations with the Ministry of Finance always develop very positively. In this respect, I appreciate the helpfulness we have on this issue. This means, I understand this proposal, I understand it, but as a member of the government, I also understand what is possible and what is not possible. This means that, with the level of rationality, let us approach those proposals that are heard here, albeit meritum and interest that they pronounce, is certainly good. But again, we can't move in any categories of unrealistic possibilities. Now, I don't know if he does or doesn't, if he does or doesn't have your support, but I'm afraid he doesn't have your support. And I assure you, it made me very sick to sleep last night. To explain why you caught me by surprise. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, Youth, Culture and Sports, which took place, you said that this proposal has your support. Dear Minister, please calm me down and confirm that your promise made to the committee still holds that the billion for monuments in the relevant subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Culture is still our common goal, which we would like to achieve in the State budget for 2016, and that you will support this proposal at third reading. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u206	Madame, don't be mad at me, you have one more minute to ask me a follow-up question, so please follow the times. Then Minister Herman will answer. Please, Minister, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. I would once again like to thank you, Mr President, Mrs Kovářová, for her support for cultural monuments. I think that even the exhibition here in the acts is very demonstrative, clear and positive to show the needs that are. This means, thank you for repeating the basic thesis of my speech yesterday, through the President, my colleague. Yes, your proposal has my support, and I fully agree with it, because it is something that would help our fund. On the other hand, I will repeat once again that we really need to move within the limits of real possibilities. And I listen at government meetings to the priorities that the government has, these are really security issues today, which everyone probably understands, and I understand that we have to deal with the global challenges in some way. Of course, if the security of our country is not secured, no sights will be secured. This means that, on this side, I want to be a loyal member of our coalition government and perceive the needs as set up by the government in my congregation. However, I support the proposal. But to be specific. The National Cultural Treasure Care Programme is budgeted for 2016 at the amount of CZK 1 billion, representing 8.5% of the expenditure of our chapter. This is reflected in the Government's resolution of 16 June 2014 on the preparation of the draft State budget for 2015 and the medium-term outlook for 2016 and 2017, on the basis of which the expenditure frameworks in force at the time were increased by one billion for each of these years, which is money, I think, very interesting. [[17.40 hours]] Investment actions are also included in the area of development and restoration of the material technical base of state cultural facilities, amounting to 422 million. CZK, total expenditure of the chapter is 3,6 %. Through a cultural heritage circle owned by the state supported by European funds, projects co-financed by the EU will be implemented as we discussed, and these will mainly cover UNESCO monuments, national cultural monuments and monuments of so-called. an indicative list. The participation of the state budget in all projects from the European Funds is supported by a sum of 50 million in the draft budget for 2016. Crowns. One cannot forget the very important block, and this is the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments and public service museums. Financial resources earmarked for the amount of 711 million. CZK are allocated in a total of six conservation programmes and two support programmes for public services in museums and together represent 6.1 percent of the total expenditure of our chapter. In addition to the cultural value of the restored monuments, programmes for the preservation and restoration of cultural monuments bring together both state support and private investment. After several years of falling tendencies, the increase in the draft budget has made it possible to secure for this area the resources that were achieved in 2010 and 2011. Compared to 2015, the block will be up 179 million. Crowns. This means that the trend that we have managed to reverse is positive, but, of course, I know that if we had a 10-fold higher budget, it would still not be enough. So thank you again for your support, and we need to try to make sure that this trend, which we have managed to start in order to hold on to it in the coming years, and I firmly believe that even the global challenges and the security situation will not stop it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u208	I thank Minister Herman for his reply. Mrs Kovářová will complete her question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u209	Minister, the internal debt at sight is 318 billion. Crowns. I understand you're saying that you've increased to national cultural monuments, to national cultural treasure, but to cultural monuments, which are 40,000, you've increased about 150 miles. You did not respect the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which called on you to put at least one billion in those six programmes, and I am sorry. I understand that there are some priorities for the government, there is security, and I very much agree with that, but the Committee on Budgets has also made it clear that sport is a priority, and it has found an extra 250 miles. And I ask how it is possible that when we put on sports, and I agree with that as a former athlete, why the government's priority is not also the restoration of cultural monuments and the preservation of our cultural heritage. I'm so sorry. I know that you as Minister of Culture are aware of the preservation of our cultural treasure and heritage, but apparently this government is not! [[- My colleague...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u210	The Minister will complete his reply to Mrs Kovářová's supplementary question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u211	Thank you for the floor. Yes, I am fully based on this point of view, and I perceive that cultural monuments are indeed the family silver of our country, where millions of people from all over the world come to us. I am convinced that I am succeeding in gradually gaining understanding of, for example, those members of the government who, say, do not perceive the priority of care for the heritage as much as I do. But that, in the end, is logical, that is the mission of the Minister of Culture. Even if we look at this area with purely economical optics, this means a huge contribution, because, as we perceive, for example, the situation in cinema, these are monuments, not only exteriors, but also their interiors, which are invited to us by film companies from around the world, because in layman's terms, basically, we don't have to build sets. And from the 800 million we give to film incentives, it comes back to us about 2.5 to 3 billion. crowns that return from a small part, for example, in the rentals of the monuments. This means yes, I agree with you, it is necessary to set these priorities in such a way that they correspond to the real situation that the monuments are a family silver. I can promise you through Mr President, my colleague, that I will continue to do this, and thank you again - both you and all - for supporting this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u212	Thank you to Minister Daniel Herman and we will continue by interpolating Mr Ladislav Šincl to the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. My colleague Šincl isn't here, so his application is forfeit. In that case, it is Mr. Petr Bendl's intervention of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the issue of car modifications on the VW, but Mr. Bendl is not, too, so he is also failing this application. And we are at the next interpelation and this is the interpelation of Mrs Nytrová Pavlína to the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová. [[The Minister of Education is rushing to the microphone. - Fun.]] Madam Secretary is here, but Mrs Nytrová is not here, so her interpellation is failing, and the Minister, who is certainly ready, is out of work. We are therefore coming to another question, and this is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová to the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government on the concept of a proposal on the state budget. So, Mrs. Kovářová has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u213	Thank you. Dear Minister, as the name of my intervention suggests, I wanted to ask you something completely different than what I will eventually ask. There's no other way. You know, I'm really tired of filing oral interviews, reading my interview in case of success, and waiting a month for the Ministry officials to reply in writing. To put my indignation within a certain framework: I have been trying to verbally interpel you in various ways since this May. In vain! And I won't be able to do it today. Why? You have simply decided to ignore the interpellation of Members. Thursday afternoon, you don't just go to the House. If I remember correctly, the last time you were here on Thursday afternoon was at the oral interviews on April 30th. I would understand an exceptional absence justified by important negotiations abroad, but a seven-month break, I'm sorry, it's just too much! Why don't you take part in oral intervention? Are you afraid of unpleasant questions from Members and can you not respond to them? Or do you despise us as MPs and not spend Thursday afternoons with us? In fact, I don't know which option is worse! No Member, opposition or coalition can defend such a minister. Minister, I call on you to improve your attendance in the Chamber of Deputies on Thursday's oral interview. I can say for myself that I look forward to seeing you, and I mean it sincerely. I am sorry that I do not get the answer to why the priority of the Minister of Finance and of the entire government is not, besides sport, the restoration of cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Under the Rules of Procedure Act, the reply, as it was also communicated, will be delivered in writing within 30 days. The problem with the answer is that it is not an answer to the written interpelation, and therefore a written reply cannot be included in the Thursday morning programme in the answers to the written interpelation. Mrs Radka Maxová has given up her application to Minister Pelikán, she has taken it back, and we are therefore at Mr Michal Kučera's interpellation with Minister Milan Chovanec. But I don't see my colleague Kučera either, so his application also fails and we will learn nothing about ensuring order and gathering. In that case, we are coming to the second-to-last questioning and this is the interpelling of Mr Ludvík Hovorka to the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the matter of collecting data from documentation, but I do not see Mr Hovorka either, so this application also fails. [[17.50 hours]] And here's the last of the interpellation. I hope we have a House record that we would have exhausted all applications. It is Mrs Pavlína Nytrová's application to the Education Minister Kateřina Valachová for parenting, but we cannot discuss this interview either, because Mrs Nytrová is not here. My colleague Hovorka has arrived, but unfortunately, I've already had to report his interpellation. So there's nothing else I can do because I can't take that word back that we've exhausted all the applications for oral interpelations on government members. I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting for ten minutes, because for the 18th hour we have firmly placed other points. I look forward to seeing you at 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-014-212.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue our adjourned negotiations. First, I will read the apology of the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, who apologizes at 18 o'clock for departmental reasons. We will continue with the fixed points, in the interrupted debate on paragraphs 66 and 67, as the debate was interrupted yesterday.
