ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u1	44. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles and on changes to certain laws, as amended and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on infractions, as amended / House print 471/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Dan Ťok, Minister of Transport, will present the proposal. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Road Traffic Act and the Act on obtaining and improving the competence to drive motor vehicles brings together several sub-areas of amendments to both laws, the aim of which is, in particular, to strengthen the safety of road traffic and its individual participants. The scope and content of the government proposal came from the evaluation of previous amendments to these laws since 2011 and from the expert discussions that the Ministry of Transport led especially in 2013 and 2014 with a number of entities to which the regulation of the Road Traffic Act or the Act on obtaining and improving competence to drive motor vehicles affects. From the point of view of content, the proposed proposal includes both the modification and addition of existing legal institutes and the proposal for new rules. The most important areas of the amendment relating to existing legal institutes are the adaptation of cycling transport, transport-psychological examination, bail and professional competence of drivers. The most important areas of the amendment introducing new rules are the modifications to the operation of segway-type self-propelled cars, the retention of vehicle registration certificates and the visibility of pedestrians on roads. In the area of cycling, the proposal brings in particular an explicit definition of the relationship between the cyclist and the driver of the motor vehicle when crossing the road on the bike crossing and the possibility of establishing associated crossings and crossings on the pedestrian and cyclist trails. The transport-psychological examination is a substantial complement to the existing legal regulation, in particular by defining the content of the examination, by notifying the outcome of the examination to the competent general authority in order to avoid circumvention of the negative outcome of the examination and to establish the possibility of withdrawing the accreditation of a traffic psychologist in breach of legal obligations. For bail, this is the overall modernisation of the regulation following the model of the Road Act or the Road Transport Act, in particular the introduction of the possibility of securing documents to the vehicle in the event of non-payment of bail. In the case of drivers' professional competence, it is, on the one hand, formal changes aimed at a more appropriate distribution of the adjustment between the two laws concerned, and, on the other, adjustments in the field of regular training eliminating unnecessary requirements beyond the Union's treatment of drivers and, where applicable, carriers. In the field of the operation of self-propelled self-propelled vehicles, the proposal explicitly defines this group of road users and lays down rules for them. As is the case today, the rules for the movement of pedestrians are used, but supplemented by restrictions on the speed of wheelchairs and a ban on endangering other traffic participants, especially pedestrians. [[20.40 hours]] Following the adoption of the bill, the Ministry of Transport envisages the adoption of a new ban mark at the level of the decree, which allows municipalities to operate to regulate the use of these vehicles on their territory. The possibility of zone marking, which is not so demanding for the number of road signs, would be introduced. In the event of major accidents or in the event of extremely serious technical failure of the vehicle during road inspection, it is proposed to allow the police to re-hold the vehicle registration certificate. The certificate shall be returned to the vehicle operator after it has demonstrated the removal of the detected defects by a protocol from the technical inspection station. This procedure should reduce the number of technically non-compliant vehicles in service and reduce the trading of such vehicles. In order to increase pedestrian safety as the most vulnerable road users, a new adjustment to the visibility of pedestrians storing visible reflective elements on clothing should continue to contribute when a pedestrian moves on the road outside the village in the event of impaired visibility, especially at night and evening. Changes in these basic areas have been formulated, inter alia, on the basis of extensive discussions with the professional public and other authorities concerned, in particular the transport police, and have the potential to contribute to a general improvement in road safety. So I would like to ask you to support this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u3	I thank the Minister and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, who is Mr Martin Kolovratník, to present us with the bill. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u4	Colleagues and colleagues, good evening. Given the advanced class, I will be a little bit more brief, because it would be pointless to repeat everything that the minister introduced us a little while ago, but I will still choose a few so-called. High lights and the most important points of the novel that you should or might be interested in, and I believe they will, because they will definitely be media-centered. So it is, as has already been mentioned, an amendment to Act 361/2000. Indeed, perhaps the most fundamental group of changes concerns, as has been said, the increase in road safety by introducing new rules and institutes. They were changes, for example. she self-propelled personal carts segway, it has already been done in the media several times, for example. the possibility of immediate retention of vehicle registration certificates or tightening up in the area of pedestrian visibility, i.e. the introduction of those reflective elements. There are, of course, also minor regulations such as the removal of gaps in current legislation or unnecessary legislative rules and, of course, partial contradictions with European Union law. The proposal should have no impact on the state budget, but what I would like to point out is that many of you are municipal or regional representatives or mayors of municipalities, so some of these points will certainly have an impact on municipalities with extended scope as prime authorities in administrative proceedings. This applies, for example, to: the possibility of immediate retention of a vehicle registration certificate. There will certainly be impacts on municipalities or regions in connection with the treatment of cycling and those so-called. Segways. I would like to extend my compliments to colleagues from the Ministry of Transport in quotation marks or to appreciate that the individual proposals in this law are developed in variants, so you, the representatives of the individual clubs who will pursue this law, will always see two or three variants with comments, how serious or how strict the Ministry proposes to choose from them. And, of course, I understand that the material is prepared for this, that it can still be debated here in the committees or in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. As I said, it may relate mainly to the cycling, the more precise definition of cycling corridors, the tightening of reflexes in pedestrians, the possibility of introducing a legal institute to withdraw technical certificates immediately and tightening up, respectively. precise definitions of how and where they can move so-called. segwaye. I guess that's all there is to discuss right now. Let me remind you that if we release the law by first reading now, it will be discussed in the Economic Committee in September of this year. I do not want to submit, but I believe that we will be careful with him in the Sub-Committee on Transport, and I hope that I only want to report that I am already collecting a number of observations from the Police of the Czech Republic as rapporteur for both the Committee and the House on this law, from professional organizations towards tightening up. For your information, part of the law is also called. A point system, so I believe we'll spend some time with him here in the House. And perhaps one last reminder. Remember, I think it was at a meeting here in May when we rejected the proposal of the Moravian-Silesian Embassy, which also concerned the point system. I then announced that, as rapporteur, I would certainly be in favour of tightening the sanctions and trying to fight against the so-called. to road pirates. So even for this debate, we should and should be able to return in September and during further discussions. I'm sure I'll be there for the tougher road pirates' punishments, and I'll be there to support them. So I'm ready and looking forward to your suggestions on this law. As I said, the economic committee will attend to it in September.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Věra Kovářová joined first. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to two questions which should be given due consideration during the next discussion. First, it is the regulation of segway traffic and, secondly, the obligation of pedestrians to obtain a reflective marking. In the case of segways, I would like to ask the Minister what regulatory options the proposed regulation offers to municipalities, and in the case of pedestrian marking, I would like to know what requirements will be applied to pedestrians. I apologise to those who consider these questions to be for committee or for second reading, but I think we should open them at first reading, given their specificity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Another logged in is with a factual remark... Normally, a duly registered Member, Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[- May I?]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that I will support the release of the law for second reading, but I am interested in... [[Comments from the O.R. Off the microphone.]] Well, that doesn't mean much, I'd like to say to my colleagues over there. Sometimes you don't know if you do or you don't, but okay. I just wanted to ask some questions. I don't know what your experience with these wheelchairs is. That's the first thing, you segway. I've seen them here in Prague, especially in Nerudovka, a lot, but elsewhere in the cities, I've seen it more like a rarity or some sort of demonstration somewhere, so I don't know. Of course, it's a very expensive matter so far, so I don't know if we have to make the law. That's one thing. Second thing. I'm very interested in how it's going to be with that little registration, because I think it's a very tricky thing if the cops judge it, how, when you're actually getting an authorized registration - what I'd call it - an establishment that needs to see the car, and just a cop won't like it if he stops you on the road, that there's something wrong with the car, and you lose your tech license. I'd be very interested in that. And then I'd like to know about the reflective elements, because it's not quite that clear again, wearing some vests outside the village. It seems a little too much to me, and how it will be dealt with if these people aren't labeled that way. Maybe I'd like to hear some comments on that. I'd like that. Then I would respond to my colleague Kolovratník, if I could, as far as the tightening of the point system is concerned. I would be very careful about this, because I remember the time when we introduced a point system in Parliament, and then those who were the most ardent supporters didn't really realize that it was everyone's business. And we're saying that we're fighting pirates, but I feel like these pirates are always gonna touch it as little as possible. This rigor will then be taken away by ordinary drivers who are in the wrong place at the wrong time and may even be misbehaving a little bit. I'd say it needs to be handled very carefully. Plus, I've got a serious problem with that point system, and I'm saying it in advance, when actually when you go on stationary radar, those radars just take you down and pay a de facto fine, and nothing else happens if you pay it at all and you don't blame it on someone else, which happens. [[20.50 hours]] If you get caught by cops, you get ambushed somewhere along the way, it costs you not only a fat fine, but also a loss of proper points, which is much more unpleasant for a number of drivers, because... I'll set it up, partner, if I may. Because for many of us, the driver's license is much more valuable than the fine, which, of course, is given in these cases, but at the same time it is registered in the city register. So I'd really be very careful with that, and I'd rather be looking for a way to compare these stationary radars with normal stops on the streets. So it's probably this on my side. I say, segway, it seems to me that we're introducing this too early, that it's a common thing here in Prague, like in Nerudovka, sometimes it's about life, that's true, but I haven't seen much of it elsewhere. Then I would be interested in reflective elements, because it sets up some responsibilities for pedestrians again, and I'm worried that it shouldn't just be in the law again, and we don't know how it would be enforced on those people, or how it would be judged in the event of a car accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u9	I thank Mr Adamc. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of the government, esteemed colleagues, will be very brief. I would like to express my support for the amendment of this law, which I have submitted to the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia during the whole discussion, but we have there, of course, in addition to strengthening the elements of road safety, including what neither the petitioner nor the rapporteur has mentioned here, and it is a very dangerous thing, especially during the winter period, that there is a new obligation for drivers to remove impurities, frosts, snow and ice from vehicles. This is a very important moment, which has long been required not only by law enforcement authorities, because there have been a number of cases where serious bodily injury and relatively complex accidents have actually occurred. But I would like to mention two other things that are a little contradictory to me. I have been involved in several amendments to road traffic laws as rapporteur in recent parliamentary periods, and when I read this amendment carefully and read the explanatory report, I unfortunately did not find any answers. There is a big problem for me that the obligation for drivers to carry proof of payment of liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle is abolished. I ask the question of who will actually control it and whether there will be any opportunity for the police to monitor online whether the vehicle is actually operated with all the belongings. The second problematic moment I see there is that the central traffic accident register at the Ministry of the Interior is being canceled. It's canceled without a replacement. There is no indication that it is replaced by another register. And then I ask how simple or difficult it will be to fine-tune the effects on the criminal part of the law, which speaks of sanctions for repeated offences. It's completely illegible and unclear to me there. I think it is not a problem for us to proceed to second reading and, on the basis of this, to be able to discuss in committees, especially in guarantee terms, the content of these problems, which I assume will be explained or moderate adjustments will be made to solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u11	I thank Mr Šidl. Another duly applied for is Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that we release this law for second reading. However, what I see as one of the key pitfalls is segway. I feel like the officials have dealt with this very quickly. Of course, what happens in Prague does not take place in other cities. Just a tourist attraction to the centre of Prague is huge and I think that there should be somewhere at least the authority of the town hall to limit or in some way determine where segway will be able to travel, which routes and under which regime. Here it really comes down to it - on the one hand, they are decent operators, and I was instructed that this cart costs allegedly incredible CZK 250,000, which is just a huge investment. But then there are also operators who come from somewhere outside the East border, and there are just drunks riding these carriages, the more you move around, the more you say, the faster it goes, and there are accidents and especially pedestrian injuries, and here, as you've noticed, in the neighborhood and in the city center, for example. blind people, and that's a big problem. So I'm not sure the solution that's being proposed is elegant. I don't want to forbid anyone, but on the other hand, since the Ministry's already engaged, there should be another compromise. I draw attention to the fact that in some countries segways are completely banned, in some countries they have a cycling mode, here it is something more like pedestrians, as it is in the proposal, but I think the Minister will explain that here. I think this is gonna be the cornerstone of how to solve this. I know that at this point it is more about Prague and more about centers, but on the other hand there are injured people. On the other hand, I am the last person who would want to destroy someone's business, unlike many ministers of this government. That's what I see in the big deal, and I think we're probably gonna be talking about it on the Economic Committee somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u13	I thank Mr Laudát. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to make a procedural proposal to discuss two points on the board today. I therefore propose that we take action today and vote in terms of terms of terms and procedures on all proposals after the 21st hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u15	I understand, Mr President, that, on behalf of the two members of Parliament, you want to vote on both territorially and procedurally today, pending the discussion of paragraph 41. That is the proposal I will put to the vote. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of Mr Sklenák's proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 185; 156 Members and Members have signed up, for 93, against 7, the proposal has been adopted. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. No one is reporting, so I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the Minister and the rapporteur. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, I feel obliged to comment on the things that have been mentioned here. So, briefly to the segways. I have already discussed this matter with the Mayor of Prague 1, Mr Lomecký, and I have presented our strategy on how we want to continue with the Segway, and he agrees with our proposal. In other words, we do not want to ban segway across borders, we allow segways to operate on pavements with the fact that they can't be faster than pedestrians, and at the same time allow us to ban the operation of segways on individual streets as well as zone brands according to the needs of individual municipalities. We talked about the fact that in Prague 1, for example, it could be a UNESCO landmark reservation that would define it, with some passageways being made there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u17	Minister, I am very sorry, I understand that it is an advanced hour, but please some, especially known jammers, we will not show ourselves to be quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u18	So they would only make some passageways so that segways could get to their destination or a meeting. So here I think we give the municipalities the authority to declare zones without segways or ban segways to individual locations. As far as the reflective elements are concerned, there would certainly be a debate on the economic committee. We don't want anything, I'd say, essential. It's standard in other countries as well. They are some standard reflective elements so that the pedestrian that goes in the unlit part of the village is marked. There was a debate on how to secure it. There's a chance to just enforce it by the police. So I'm sure there'll be another debate about it. As far as the point system is concerned, I would leave that to the Economic Committee and for second reading. Thank you for reminding me - the removal of ice and snow is a very serious thing that becomes a duty, and it was a very dangerous element. As for the control and central accident register, I would refer the debate to the economic committee, where we will explain how it is. The Central Accident Register was at the request of the Ministry of the Interior and we'll have fun as to how its next operation will be secured. So much for me. Everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-012-044.u19	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. We will now consider the motion for a committee's order for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposed proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 186, registered 157 Members, for 138, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee. It's not like that. I therefore end the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The final point of today's meeting is
