ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u1	37. Government bill amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws (the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation), as amended /German press 489/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek will state the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u2	Mr President, colleagues, let me briefly introduce the Government's bill amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds. The submitted amendment was prepared in response to the new European rules governing the granting of public aid. They have already entered into force on 1 July 2014 and have introduced a number of changes to the rules on public aid which conflict with the existing wording of the R&D Support Act. So what really changed. First of all, the basic terminology with which the Research, Development and Innovation Support Act is being developed and based. In practice, this has resulted in confusion and differing views on the interpretation of the law in relation to the new European regulations. Certain legal uncertainty and interpretation uncertainty increased, including whether certain provisions of the law were de facto nullified by the different directly applicable provisions of the Commission Regulation. In the interests of better and more comfortable application and clarity of the modernised public support rules, we have therefore agreed to unify the adaptation of national and European legislation in the form of a proposal. The aim of this amendment is therefore only to make partial changes within the scope of the current wording of the Act on Support for Research, Development and Innovation, which have now proved necessary to align directly applicable European regulations with national legislation. This is to prevent possible collisions in terms of the principle of direct effect, i.e. the applicability of European Union law. Following this proposal, we are already preparing a completely new law focusing on more comprehensive conceptual changes in the field of support for research, development and innovation, the substantive intention of this new law has already been put into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. Consequently, this new law, which we are preparing, should also introduce other instruments and categories of support that the European Commission considers compatible with internal market rules and which are not yet enshrined in our national legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to refer the Government's bill to second reading and, at the same time, to have some restraint in any amendments, since all major changes should be included in the subsequent comprehensive amendment and be subject to proper review procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u3	I thank the Vice Prime Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Jiří Zlatuška, who unfortunately I do not see. Maybe some kind of obstruction? [[Fun in the hall.]] I am therefore interrupting the House's negotiations until the rapporteur arrives. - And I'm not interrupting. I take it back. The rapporteur's already coming. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to elaborate on what Mr Vice Prime Minister here said. The amendment to the Act is justified by the implementation of the core provisions and concepts introduced by Commission Regulation No. Council Regulation (EEC) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 and Regulation (EC) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014. These Regulations define categories of aid compatible with the internal market in the field of support for research, development and innovation and in the agricultural and forestry sectors in rural areas, so-called General Block Exemption Regulation, shortcut GBER, and Agricultural Block Exemption Regulation, shortcut ABER, as they appear in written documents. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, these are technical changes caused by major changes in the related EU legislation. The material in question is therefore mainly a draft implementing regulation. [[14.40 hours]] So what is changing is the basic terminology used by the R & D Support Act so far. However, these changes are not cosmetic. With the change in terminology and especially the interpretation of some terms, there is a significant change in legislation. New definitions shall be introduced or references shall be made to the definitions contained in the abovementioned Regulations of the European Commission. And it is these mere references to definitions that could lead to confusion and confusion in the later interpretation of the law. The designer also mentions this in his explanatory report. It says - I quote: "The definition of research organisations is distinctly different, which will significantly affect the activities of universities, public and private institutes of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and other research organisations in the Czech Republic." And that is one of many things that the Chamber of Deputies will have to focus on. It cannot be agreed with one of the definitions of a research organisation to which the law merely refers as - I quote again - a "virtual research cooperating body'. It would probably be desirable for at least the obligation to return to the law, as it is so far, to reinvest all profits back in research and dissemination of results so that research organisations cannot become some subsidiaries that will receive institutional support and make profits to parent companies. Partial problems, which are an interpretational type, can be eliminated by discussions and possible adjustments during second reading. Despite any deficiencies in terminology or formulation, which may be involved, I propose that the second reading and assignment of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Karel Rais joined first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u6	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Government, Dear Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. I am glad that the Deputy Prime Minister is presenting an amendment to Act No. 130 on the promotion of research and development from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws. Although this is a technical amendment in particular, I think there will be scope for us to discuss changes to the legislation on rapid changes, in the field of science and research and in the application sphere. I believe, as previous speakers have also been told, that there are a number of problems that need to be addressed, in particular the evaluation of the results of science and research, the famous caffeine, or to decide what the specific methodology for evaluating science and research will look like, what to take over from the completed research of the individual project of the national methodology. We should talk about organizational problems, as mentioned here, such as. the creation of public research institutions, the "véwiček" and the management of Czech science and research and innovation, the policy of financing science and research, the innovation policy of the Czech Republic, and this is how we can continue. A substantial refinement of the organisation and internal management of the public research institution is included in the draft amendment to the Higher Education Act. This amendment contains useful things, but it is connected with a single problem - it does not say that it concerns universities. So from the perspective of the amendment to the Higher Education Act, it is a typical label, which I think belongs more to this amendment to the Law on Science and Research than to the Higher Education Act. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The traditional and chronic problem of underfinancing science as well as in the area of the Grant Agency and the Technology Agency, the issue of financing not only the Academy of Sciences but also the financing of science, research and innovation universities could also be discussed in second reading. I therefore see a legislative scope for improving the processes of cooperation between science and practice. We will probably have to make these processes more flexible and, in particular, transparent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u7	Ambassador, I'm very sorry. We will have to make the processes more transparent, and here we will have to maintain more calm so that the Member can be heard. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u8	I have therefore spoken about the fact that there is a legislative space for improving the processes of cooperation between science and practice, that it is necessary to make these processes more flexible and particularly transparent. And the weak point, of course, is to pass the results of science into practice. This is one of the other problems that we, as well as other advanced European countries, need to tackle. There are a number of real unsolved problems associated with the organisation of science and research and the management of scientific research organisations and their evaluation. I therefore welcome the opportunity to discuss with the representatives of the Academy of Sciences, with university staff and, in particular, with the Vice-President for Science and Research, absolutely specific problems and in the form of amendments prepared by the YES movement, to address the situation in the field of science and research. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u9	I thank Mr Rais. Mr Ivan Pilný, who was duly applied for by Mr Vácha, has now made a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the Vice-President of the Government for presenting an amendment to such an important law. I am also pleased that a comprehensive proposal is being prepared, which is essential, but which will be very complex and will require some agreement or compromise between the many entities involved in this issue. Nevertheless, when discussing the budget for this year and certainly also when discussing the next budget, there will be discussions on how much money is given or not given in this area, whether it is small or not. This amendment gives us the opportunity to try to define the financial flows in some way and to address, in particular, the use and definition of the revenues that this area brings. This is therefore a good opportunity to open this debate and perhaps even in the debate on the budget to take advantage of some legislative steps that will be proposed in this area. And because the use of results in this area has a significant impact on the economy, when this agenda is allocated to committees, I will also propose an allocation to the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u11	I thank Mr Pilný. Mr František Vácha, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u12	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Looks like a lot of people are gonna throw themselves into this law who probably feel like they could make some money out of it for their departments. As the rapporteur said, originally this amendment should only have been implemented by the GBER directive or by ABER, which in general should have been a simplification of administration. GBER and ABER are exceptions that give the Czech Republic the opportunity to finance some things without asking the European Union. However, this law has been opened and we will probably have to deal very carefully with it and especially the amendments. As far as the novel is concerned, I see a few things that might in some way threaten the functioning of Czech science. The primary thing that doesn't fit in my novel is the launch of the definition of a research organisation. I think that in the law on the promotion of research and experimental development and innovation from public sources, there really should be a definition of a research organisation, or it should be called an organisation for research and dissemination of knowledge pursuant to Article 2 (1). 83 of the GBER Directive. [[14.50 hours]] It was in the original definition that all assets or profits were to be reinvested in research and dissemination of results. This definition has been deleted from the amendment, and I must say that the scientific community feels this as a great danger. She also pointed out this to the Council of universities, and I see the danger that research organisations, which would be subsidiaries, could receive institutional support and profit not to reinvest in research, but to do so to their parent institutions. That is what I think is crucial, what we should focus on in committee and find some compromise text to somehow return it to that law. It is interesting that the applicant has just launched a research organisation, but for example. the definition - whether I find it here or remember - of the definition of personal costs, which is clearly given by GBER, he wrote into the law as well as the definition of material costs. If I'm not mistaken. I don't think I'm going to propose a return for myself, we're going to support this law to go through second reading, but I see a lot of work on it already because there is a substantive intention of the new law, and I think it would be a good idea to somehow draw the attention of the Vice-President of the Government to the direction in which the thinking of the scientific community or the general thinking of the congregation here is taking place. I won't forgive a nasty remark. This morning we learned that only doctors in the House should speak about health laws. Only travel agency owners should speak about tourism laws. Probably about the waste laws they should have - and now I don't know if there are any garbage men among us. I do not prevent people who are not in this science and research from discussing the laws on science and research, but probably from discussing it, the Vice-President will certainly take away the feeling that the House has in relation to the draft law, and will certainly prepare it in image, so that this law passes through the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u13	Thank you, Mr Vách. The next enrollment is Mrs Anna Putnová. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u14	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I think I'm right, Prime Minister, when I say this is the first legislative material you've presented to the House after a year and a half. We expected more. At the same time, you called on us to be restrained from the point of view of the amendments. I must already say that we will not be able to answer your request, because what you have submitted after a year and a half is a semi-finished product that we will have to adjust by amending proposals so that we can raise our hand for it with a clear conscience. So I'm sorry, we can't hear your request. We will want a clear definition of what a research organisation is, how it will be treated with profit, what processes will be within the framework of the functioning of research institutions and the links between ourselves, and all of this we assume that we will have to adapt with amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u15	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Another duly registered member is Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be among those who have already been allocated by the previous speaker, so I am not among researchers, scientists, or garbage men. But this law isn't important to the resort chapters for schoolchildren or the school committee or the economic committee. It is important for the Czech economy, for the Czech economy. If we are to plan for a future, we can only plan for it by examining it well, developing well, innovating well, and both in the field of basic research, so that I don't get attacked, but especially in the field of applied research, at the end of the development, the research, there should be some commercial effect. Since the Czech country and our citizens are all fed by the Czech industry, and much more so than in other countries of the European Union, much more so than anywhere in the world, it is all the more important that the Czech industry is in front of development and innovation. Just to have products that no one else knows, so he could sell them well all over the world. That is why this law is extremely important as an entry into the debate, and I would like to thank you for being here at the moment. It will not be easy for the Vice-President, because it will certainly be us non-researchers and non-trashers who want to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u17	I thank Mr Urban. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to this committee. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as Committee on Guarantee, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is the 58th vote, 169 Members and Members, for 118, against none, the proposal has been adopted. I note that we have ordered this proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees or committees to discuss? Mr. Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u18	Thank you for the floor. As I have already announced, I propose a commandment to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-012-037.u19	There's a motion for a commandment to the Economic Committee. If no one has any other proposal, there's a request for your check-out. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will be voting on the commandment of the next committee for discussion, which is under the motion of Mr Pilný, the Economic Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 59, 123 Members are registered, for 118, against none, the proposal has been accepted. I therefore note that we have ordered the proposal to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee and economic committee as another committee. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank the Vice Prime Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item number
