ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u1	95. Proposal for the election of the Chairman of the commission of inquiry Chamber of Deputies for the examination of serious errors which occurred during the preparation and implementation of the construction of the D47 motorway Please, Mr. Chairman, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u2	Colleagues, colleagues, I can also remind you of this media-intensive and monitored choice. We have not been successful during the winter months. I will briefly conclude that the second round of the second secret election took place on 13 February and the President still has not been elected. The Election Commission announced a new deadline until last week, until March 6, when the clubs submitted new proposals. Resolution No 99. In this resolution, we note that we have received the following nominations for the election of the President of the Committee of Inquiry on D47: Mr Jan Birke for Social Democracy, Member Stanislav Pfléger, who was proposed by both the club YES and the club of the Úsvit movement. Of course, you will only have two names on your ballots - Jan Birke and Stanislav Pfléger. We have passed this resolution on to the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, they have it at their disposal, and under Section 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, we will vote in a secret vote. So let's open the third secret option. I ask you now, Mr President, to open the debate on this point and on the proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u3	I am opening the debate and registering one application from Mrs Havlová. [[Question from Mrs. Havel off the microphone: Right?]] Yes, it's a proper debate. Take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, all of you, as you sit here, you know that I was the initiate for this commission to be formed. You all approved it. And it seems really unfair to me now that we're unable to elect a chairman in four elections. I was convinced that if there were two candidates from the coalition parties, that you were able to agree and finally choose one of them. In the last few days, many representatives of the public and the media have turned to me with a major concern about when the commission of inquiry on the D47 motorway will begin to work. There are serious suspicions about the role of the ČSSD in this matter, the role of its President and the current Prime Minister, Mr Sobotka, and last but not least the role of Mr Birke, who was nominated by the ČSSD as a candidate for the President of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. All of us are repeatedly turning to this matter by NGOs Return to us state! and the public against corruption and the whole thing threatens to grow into another delusion and disappointment to the public from the level of political culture in the Czech Republic. Before we go again to vote for the President of the Commission of Inquiry, I would like to hear a few fundamental things both for all Members and for the public at this point. First of all, I remind you that the problem of the D47 motorway is not some minor problem and error, some minor minor episode. It is a huge problem on more different sections of the highway and the length of many kilometers, which negatively affects people's lives in Ostrava, where they waited so long for a new highway to reach the highway completely messed up, where they can only drive at 60 km, in some places even 30 km in an hour. We are talking about billions of Czech crowns, hundreds, or perhaps thousands of defects. We are talking about a problem that threatens the functionality and benefits of the motorway project itself. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Often in the media and on this soil we hear controversy about whether the state actually ordered such a messed-up highway itself and whether it wouldn't have done better if it had stopped suing construction companies and paid them again to fix what they had done before. I regret, but on this platform of brainwashing and juggling words without content, I completely reject the debate. Public works contracts aren't here to build corrupt highways, and then the same companies were paid to build them over and over again. [[13.00 hours]] Anyone who manages public funds, and this certainly applies primarily to ŘSD, but also to anyone who makes up their billions of profits from public funds, which, in turn, applies to construction companies, must bear their share of responsibility for not wasting public funds. If the buildings involved, the companies behaved as a professional, they could never allow the construction of a scumbag like the D47 motorway, regardless of any personal misconduct of ŘSD officials who didn't properly control them. And all we can do is argue why. If construction companies did what they should have done, we didn't even have to have different arbitrations and committees of inquiry, and we didn't have to pay for lawyers. But because construction companies screwed up the highway and because they refuse to fix it for their own, unfortunately, we have all these lengthy and costly processes. That is not to say that the employees of the Road and Motorway Directorate who have admitted this condition should not be punished. On the contrary. But that doesn't mean that construction companies should somehow be off the hook and keep their enrichment in any form at the expense of the state. [[There's a constant noise in the hall, and the MPs are talking to each other.]] But the sad fact remains that many state officials who should be on the side of the state are not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u5	I'm sorry, coworkers, colleagues. I understand that lunch is near. I will ask you to be patient so that we can finish the debate. Just for the record, I remind you that this is an election point, which is that the debate should be about who is nominated. So I'm going to ask you, Madame, to complete your contribution and we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u6	I'll get to it. They're more on the side of construction companies. I wonder what their motivation is and whether it happens to be unrelated to the funding of their political parties, or perhaps even to the personal and property benefits of them themselves. The suspicions in this area have arisen in the past even against some transport ministers, and I would like to mention, for example, the strange settlement with Eurovia, which Minister Žák sought. Unfortunately, this suspicion also overshadows the choice we are about to make. I ask the Prime Minister of ČSSD if it is true that Dr. Radek Pokorný is his close friend, former employer and former roommate. I further ask whether it is true what NGOs tell us that the same Radek Pokorný is the legal representative of Eurovia and other construction companies that built the corrupt D47 motorway in Ostrava and that he is also Vice-President of the arbitration court to decide matters. Last but not least, I ask if it is the same Radek Pokorný, who advised Sokolov coal at a time when this under the leadership of Mr Sobotka as Minister of Finance privatized, and at a time when Mr Birke held office in this company. Unfortunately, without waiting for the Prime Minister's reply, which may not, as is customary for the Prime Minister, come or come in evasive form, I have to answer myself that all this information is quite exhilaratingly based on what everyone can find on the Internet. In this situation, the ČSSD brazenly presents its nomination for the post of chair of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which is to investigate all errors of construction companies. And it is this colleague Birke of the ČSSD who convinced all of us here in plenary in October that the entire committee of inquiry is useless, and now he wants to be its chairman. Are we really a completely banana republic to admit this? Do we really not care what the public thinks anymore? And we don't really care who the Prime Minister is friends with, and what things are he working on against the state? And we're gonna support this by electing our colleague Birke to this place where he doesn't belong? [[The noise in the hall, the crowds of Members from the left respond to the speaker.]] Prime Minister Sobotka publicly declares that at the time of the construction of the motorway, ČSSD was in opposition and cannot be associated with the administration of the Ministry of Transport under the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, these claims are a conscious, unruly lie to the Prime Minister. The contracts on the faulty section of the D47 motorway we are talking about were concluded in 2003 and 2004 and this motorway was put into operation 1. 12. 2007. The construction took place for about three years at the time of three different ČSSD governments, which had one in common, namely Prime Minister Sobotka at the post of Minister of Finance. It is clear that the Prime Minister, with this conscious and disgusting lie, is trying to conceal his share of responsibility as well as the clear conflict of interest in which he is located. With this conscious lie, the Prime Minister is also trying to avoid the unpleasant fact that his close friend and an influential member of the ČSSD, Dr. Pokorný, is being paid to lose to the state in arbitration with construction companies. How do we deal with the fact that he is knowingly lying here for the benefit of his friends and for the benefit of construction companies that have lost billions and are trying to subvert the problem to the right-wing parties who inherited it from his government? Ladies and gentlemen, I reject this, and I want to believe that you will refuse this, too, and you will make the right decision when choosing the new chairman of the D47 Motorway Investigation Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u7	Thank you. I note two factual points here. Mr Birke has the first, and then Mr Sklenák has the second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to get there within the next two minutes and I will not respond to all that has been said here. You know, in this country, it's customary that when you decide to spit on someone, it stays on their backs. I think everyone has a lot of experience with this, and unfortunately, none of you are gonna wash it off. And I'm not the only one who wants to fight it. But now we've witnessed exactly that without any evidence, I've been identified as a person in conflict of interest! Madam President, this is the impudence of the greatest caliber! You attacked not only Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, but also the mayor of the city, who defended the mandate again with 43 percent. And the only ones who can decide whether or not I steal are voters! Or I'm in a conflict of interest. Excuse me, I'm sorry, I take it back. However, I say at this point: we are in a democratic state, it is a secret choice and you will decide according to the best conscience and consciousness. And to respond to such things, you certainly have the right, through Mr President, to do so, I simply do not intend, because this cannot be combated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u9	Thank you. Given that a break from one hour has been planned, I will let the debate run for some time. Anyway, given that a physiological break is then made for lunch, I will have to decide and, if necessary, divide the choice. I'm saying it for the start. And now I'm going to put words in the way you signed up with a point of fact. Mr Sklenák, Mr Okamura and Mr Kalousek are here. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u10	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, you all know that this Chamber of Deputies does not enjoy the great trust of citizens. You know that our duties as MPs are always at the bottom of citizens' credibility. And the performances that Mrs Olga Havlová has performed here are the cause of this assessment. That was an incredible performance. A colleague of Mr. Honza Birke is a transport expert at our club. If we were to nominate someone to be chairman of the committee of inquiry, the choice was clear. I have no doubt about his professional and human qualities. In the last two elections, Jan Birke received the most votes, with three votes missing in one election. [[13.10 hours]] What Mrs Olga Havlová quoted here, which we repeatedly receive in our emails, is a text that really cannot be commented on. I'm just wondering how Hana Marvanová, who is under this signed office, could perform the Deputy Minister's duties. I would like to remind you that the MP's club is convened by the President of the MP's club, that's me. No special MP club has been convened on this subject, and the support of colleague Birke in our parliamentary club has been clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I vouch for Jan Birke. And on the basis of what has been said here, I beg you very much for his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u11	Thank you. Now, President Okamura, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to stand up for Mrs Havlová, of course, in the sense that, as you know, the D47 Highway Committee has proposed the Dawn movement, specifically our Mrs Havlová, to do the work on this. And the fact that we haven't been able to agree on who's gonna lead her for months or longer just shows that we were right and that we need to investigate properly. While with other committees, the government coalition can agree here immediately and there is no problem, it is interesting that, with this particular commission, the chairman, which is a very influential position, the government coalition is suddenly unable to agree. We, of course, proposed our chairman. When we saw that there is no political will in the government coalition for this committee of inquiry to be chairman of the Dawn movement, even though we have proposed it - and thank you for saying it - I say again that this is why we have come to support the ANO candidate, because, after all, as a party that is new here and has nothing directly to do with it, it seems closer to us. And really, how we argue here and how nervous there is especially in the ČSSD shows that it will really be very necessary. So, dear friends, not words, but actions. So today's choice, please show that you want to investigate, that we want to move forward in some way. Because what's going on here shows again and again what kind of sklendrian this is and that this is really some sort of backstage lobby. Otherwise, Mrs Havlová does not say that someone was stealing. Mrs Havlová said there was a conflict of interest. So I just want to stress this, even though it's already been explained here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u13	Now President Kalousek will be given the floor, and after his point of fact, I will give a five-minute break and ask the club presidents to come to me and arrange for further action, because we are dragging the planned break. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Birk through Mr President, it is not true that the only person who can decide who steals or does not steal is the voters, as you said. That's the right to make decisions about it, even the chairman of your coalition party, if he thinks they're stealing everything. All of you, all of you! You can't be any exception. [[There's laughter and applause.]] And even though that makes you a dirty suspect, Mr. Mayor, I will still vote for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u15	I thank you and interrupt the meeting for five minutes. I'm going to ask the club presidents to come to me and we're going to discuss the next procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. [[The sitting shall be suspended from 13.14 to 1317 at the meeting of the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament at the President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue. There has been an agreement with the MPs to complete these ballots, to hold elections, and the Chamber of Deputies will not continue their negotiations at 14.30, but at 15.00. That means we're gonna finish these points and we're gonna move the break. So I'm going back to the interrupted point, and that's the committee of inquiry for the construction of the D47 motorway. I am asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate on this point. I see no one, so I am ending the debate and I am giving the floor to the President of the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u16	Thank you for the floor. After the debate, I will say that the motion for a secret vote shall not be put to the vote, so shall the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the House. So this election will also take place in the State acts in a secret way using tickets. I therefore ask that you also interrupt this point, Mr President, and open another ballot point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-006-095.u17	I'm interrupting and opening a point.
