ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, and Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended /German press 337/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u2	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal under discussion contains, in particular, two sets of amendments. Firstly, it proposes that a party who has not been represented in civil proceedings by a lawyer or, where appropriate, a notary or a patent representative has not demonstrated the amount of the completed expenditure of his or her other representative, the flat-rate reimbursement of those completed expenses, the specific amount of which will be determined by the Decree of the Ministry of Justice. In doing so, it is assumed that the compensation will be similar to the flat-rate reimbursement of costs already provided to participants represented by the lawyer, according to the legal tariff. In particular, this means that the unrepresented participant should be granted reimbursement of the completed expenditure at the level specified by the legal tariff for each operation. The original proposal of the Ministry of Justice aimed at establishing a flat-rate compensation for the entire procedure without distinguishing between the number of acts carried out by the participant. Secondly, the rules governing the enforcement of the decision into property in the joint property of spouses are amended, in particular in the following respects: The Court of First Instance will be obliged, before the enforcement order, to determine whether a contract or a decision on the marital property regime is registered in the list of instruments governing the marital property regime maintained by the Notary Chamber of the Czech Republic. [[15.50 hours]] Under the legislation in force, when ordering enforcement from the instrument of marriage, the court does not proceed and the enforcement of the judgment on property which is not in the common property is suspended only after the court decides on the exclusion action relating to that property. Furthermore, in order to enforce the judgment, the court will rely on the registered instrument in principle if it is to recover the debt from the obligation arising after the entry of the instrument in the list of instruments. In other cases, the court will order the exercise of assets in the joint stock to the legal extent. If the enforcement of the decision is affected by property which is not in the common property, it will be possible to lodge an application for termination of the proceedings and in this case it will no longer be necessary to bring an exclusion action before the application for termination of the proceedings. Finally, the execution of the decision will be possible for a debt for which property in the common property can be affected, to order a claim from the debtor's account at the monetary institution. The execution of the decision in this way can be stopped even if there are no funds in the account that belong to the spouse's joint property. Similarly, the enforcement legislation on property in the joint property of spouses has been amended. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Chamber of Deputies release the proposal, as amended by the amendments made in the Constitutional Committee, until the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u3	I thank the Minister. On 7. 11. 2014 at the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, this press was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that if it is not submitted during the examination of the draft law Before the amendment is effective, the Chamber of Deputies will determine which committee is the guarantee committee. In the present case, the draft law was directed only to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a single committee and it is therefore clear that this committee is a guarantee committee. Therefore, we do not need to vote on the designation of the guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 337/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Martin Plíšek, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and justify any amendments in accordance with Section 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u4	Madam President, my dear colleagues, the Constitutional Legal Committee adopted Resolution No 100 to the House press at its 27th meeting on 25 February 2015. Following the comments of the petitioner and rapporteur, the Constitutional Legal Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the proposal, and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament accept the amendments and additions to this bill, which are set out in the Chambers of Press 337/3. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u5	I thank and open a general debate in which I have one Mr Marek Benda's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u6	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly justify in the general debate the proposal that I will only present to you in a detailed debate by reading the figure, because it is stored in the system, but because I do not like it when it is presented merely with reference to the system, I would like to justify it here in the Chamber. At the same time, I say that it was drawn up in cooperation with the banking association, based on their initiative, but I think it is correct. That is why I am presenting it to this Chamber of Deputies. There has been a long debate on how we will resolve the situation in relation to the marital property, unless it is divided, exists as a single committee, and the Constitutional Committee has finally come to the conclusion that if execution is conducted on account of the debtor's spouse, i.e. He's the one, let's say, guaranteeing, he's not exactly the one who's mandatory, so that half of this account is still available to the husband. I don't agree with it at all, I'll be honest with you, because I think marriage is an unlimited liability in this regard, but I respect this decision by the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think that the committee has come to him this way, and I'm just suggesting a technical change that tries to resolve a situation where if we left the current text, banks and banks are in an unsolvable situation, because they would essentially manage sub-accounts of two people on that one account. Because, of course, there's more money coming into that account, which is already affected by the execution completely unlimited. And so can the debtor's husband, the person left behind, move and move him in some way, but only up to that half. And how is a bank able to distinguish that? They'd have to invent very complex systems for that. I'm afraid the only outcome would be that they'd just give the bills away. Therefore, I propose in the proposal that I put forward in a detailed debate that the text should be the same as for the debtor's account where it is today: in the case of the debtor's account, we leave twice the minimum of life that the debtor can choose to have a basic minimum of life. That's the kind of thing the Civil Code knows, it's tested, it knows how it works, and I don't think it raises any fundamental interpretation disputes. Therefore, I suggest that we just translate it into the same text, not that the husband can continue to manage the account to that half, but that half of it remains reserved for its use, but just as it is in the case of just twice the minimum of life, he can choose it and he can spend it and must be brought to the attention of the bank. I think this is a more appropriate and happier solution than the solution initially chosen by the Ministry and approved by the Constitutional Committee. I completely understand that Minister Brabec cannot comment on this right now, and I do not envy his position, and I am very much asking the Ministry to think about it factually, not only because it is being put forward by an opposition MP, but if it really is not a solution which, in my opinion, could help to deal with the matter as decided by the Constitutional Legal Committee, i.e. half of the bill remained mandatory. Of course, I also treat the situation there if half were less than twice the minimum of life, that at least twice the minimum of life must remain there, but at the same time it would not make life too difficult for banks and allow it to continue to be managed under the existing rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, Mr Bend, and please, to Mr Tejc's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u8	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, while I have a different legal opinion on what the regulation looks like now, I believe that the problem that Marek Benda is talking about is not emerging there, but it is certainly something that we will discuss on the guarantee committee, and we will certainly consider all the circumstances. I believe that the problem cannot arise because half of the funds are assessed there when the account is blocked, i.e. not at a time when more money may be coming. But I'm sure there are different opinions about that. I believe we can get the right guy. I would like to thank all the members of the Constitutional Committee and Mrs Exministra Válková, for the fact that the proposal was submitted to the House and for the fact that we have tried to deal with two fundamental issues. That once was a very frequent complaint, which you may have encountered in your emails immediately after the elections, after the effectiveness of the Civil Code, when what was true in the past, due to the collision of the new Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure, and started to be massively enforced primarily by the account of the other spouse, who often had nothing to do with the debt, but sometimes it happened that these were cases where people had long separated the property of the spouse or the husband who had caused the debt and had not seen it for a long time and only met his debt. I am pleased that we have managed to find a consensus on a solution that is certainly not ideal, which Mr Benda has already talked about, and I could also imagine a better solution, but we have indeed been looking for a possible path, a path that will be balanced in relation to creditors. Not only will it help debtors, but it will set a certain balance, so I am glad that the press eventually managed to get not only to the first reading but, above all, to the second reading, and hopefully to be approved. The second thing they're dealing with is that the situation doesn't happen that the spouses have separated the joint property of the spouses, and the executor only reaches the whole property because he doesn't start by looking at whether the property is separated by a decision of the court or by a contract. That's not gonna happen now, and I think it's gonna be for the best. [[16.00 hours]] The third issue to be dealt with by the amendment is the question of costs for those who are not represented by a lawyer in the proceedings. We certainly refused to let the person who was represented and not represented have the same reward. These rewards have been significantly reduced by the decision of Minister Válková six months ago because they were laid down by the decree. The rewards that must be dealt with now, at this point, are rewards for those who will not be represented, and we think that this could be a certain incentive factor for a number of creditors, so that they do not increase the costs of enforcement. In order to obtain part of the costs directly from the debtor and not to burden both his and, of course, his administration with other charges. This should lead to lower costs if debts are enforced. So that is the reason that ultimately led the committee to support this decision and this amendment. So once again, thank you all for your cooperation from right to left and left to right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u9	Thank you, too, and please, to Mr. Marek Černoch's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u10	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to join you, too. I completely disagree with my colleague, Marek Benda, that marriage is inseparable, that they are both responsible for each other there, because often those people are in a situation where they really can't answer for each other, and then I think it's not right and fair if they're taking away the problems. Of course, I would also very much like to thank all my colleagues from the Constitutional Legal Committee for their cooperation in solving the problems that I think are very much needed. And, of course, I would very much like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u11	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur, the rapporteur, whether they are interested in the final words. Please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u12	Well, I'll just keep it short. I think it is a good thing that we already have an effective amendment to the Rules of Procedure, so that this press will be returned to the Guarantee Constitutional Law Committee, because there we have agreed across the board that half of the balance on the spouse's account of this property needs to be protected in some way. So we should also find a suitable solution with representatives of the professional public, perhaps with the banking association and other entities, so that we can then take a responsible vote at third reading. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u13	Thank you. And now I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I would now like to address the microphone of Mr Benda, who is the only person who has so far signed up for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u14	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I subscribe to House document 2041. It's the amendment I signaled here. I stress once again that there will be no confusion: I am not proposing any substantive change. I am leaving the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee on an uninhibitable half of the account as adopted, just addressing the technical issue. The fact that I said something about marriage as unlimited solidarity and liability was just my personal expression without wanting to change the constitutional committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-002-002.u15	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I see no application, so I conclude the detailed debate and ask again whether there is an interest in the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to the discussion of point 3 and that is
