ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and other related laws /German press 379/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Minister Jiří Dienstbier shall state the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to present to you the draft law amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and other related laws. The proposal is based on the Government's programming declaration, where the Government undertakes to strengthen legal defence against discrimination and the Ombudsman's power to propose the abolition of unconstitutional laws. A substantial part of the proposed amendment is the changes relating to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down. I understand that the previous point was challenging. If you need to discuss this, I'll ask you to go to the lobby so we can hear the minister's speech. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u4	Thank you, too. A substantial part of the amendment tabled consists of changes concerning the refinement of the process of investigating the initiative of the Ombudsman. The aim is to simplify it, to be more friendly to the providers of incentives and to reduce administrative demands for the authorities and institutions under investigation. These changes have no effect on the fact that the protector remains a recommending and expert point. There's no way he's making any decisions about any of the things he's doing. In the spirit of the Government's programming statement, the amendment also respects the European trend of highlighting the role of Ombudsmans in the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, which is a shift from the classic concept of the Ombudsman as a defender of the rights of persons to the illegal conduct of state administration and inaction. Just as the Ombudsman in the Czech Republic, in other countries, these institutions also acquire competence in the area of personal protection, e.g. in detention or in the field of protection against discrimination. The new Ombudsman's right to turn to the Constitutional Court or other courts also goes hand in hand with the extension of the scope in that area. The proposal gives the new protector the power to propose to the Constitutional Court the abolition of laws or parts thereof for a conflict with constitutional order and, on the one hand, to bring public action to the court in cases of discrimination. This extension of the Ombudsman's powers also follows from various recommendations made by international organisations, e.g. Recommendation No 5 on the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The strengthening of the Ombudsman on the possibility of proposing to repeal the Act on Institution before the Constitutional Court respects his role in protecting individuals. The Ombudsman, having conducted an investigation into a particular complaint and has reason to believe that the lawlessness of the institutions' conduct is based on an unconstitutional law, has the opportunity to refer himself to the Constitutional Court. This extension of the Ombudsman's competence also follows from the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the strengthening of the Ombudsman's institution in Europe. This is therefore in line with the European trend of strengthening the powers of similar institutions in other European countries. To date, the trial appears that a citizen whose complaint has been found to be legitimate by the Ombudsman, if he wants to defend himself further, must defend himself by judicial means, and only in the context of judicial review can the court, either on his own motion or on its own initiative, stay the proceedings and refer the matter to the Constitutional Court's decision. In the event that the court does not do so, after the completion or exhaustion of all legal remedies in the court, a particular citizen himself may, within the framework of his constitutional complaint, refer to the Constitutional Court, with a proposal to repeal the law for a hardened conflict with constitutional order. The government amendment thus complements the possibility of protecting individuals where the firmness is apparent from the Ombudsman's inquiry. It prevents the Office from continuing its non-constitutional negotiations with others who turn to it and gives the defender the opportunity as an ultima ratio to turn to the Constitutional Court with a proposal which it can or may not comply with. Thus, even here, nothing changes to the fundamental principle that the Ombudsman himself does not decide, only he can make recommendations or proposals, but also here the Constitutional Court finally decides. A similar authorisation in a similar mechanism is also granted by the Slovak Ombudsman or, for example, by the Slovak Ombudsman. Polish Ombudsman. I say this in order to confirm that the European trend is to give similar authority to similar institutions, i.e. the Ombudsmans in Europe. The second proposed authorisation is to bring a public action in cases of discrimination, which was also the subject of the recommendation of the Ombudsman to the Chamber of Deputies in 2013. The purpose of this instrument is to address, in particular, large-scale and systemic cases of discrimination against more people. Based on experience, legislation in a number of European countries goes in this direction. At the same time, the new rights of the protector would significantly strengthen the protection against discrimination, which remains often latent and unsolved in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman's regular reports on his activities as a national equal treatment body, which are presented to the Chamber of Deputies and which reveal for example. extensive and systemic discrimination against elderly persons in access to employment or financial services or persons with disabilities in access to goods and services. The entire bill is motivated by the improvement of the protection of the rights of all persons in the Czech Republic, in which its main contribution can be perceived. To conclude, I would therefore ask you to release it for further reading, where, of course, it will be an opportunity to hold a detailed debate on all aspects of the proposal in the relevant committees. I hope that his approval will be achieved so that the protection of the rights of people in the Czech Republic will be strengthened as best as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u5	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Markéta Adamová to take the floor. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the news report on this amendment tabled, i.e. to the Government Bill amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and to the laws relating thereto. The main objective of the amendment, as has already been said here, is to extend the Ombudsman's powers. In the context of strengthening the human rights aspects of the Ombudsman's work, it is therefore proposed to give the protector two new special approvals, in addition to the fact that there are still a number of minor technical changes. So I'm going to pay particular attention to these two new approvals. The first authorisation allows the Ombudsman to submit a motion to the Constitutional Court for annulment of the law or part of it, which could also respond to the findings found in practice if he considered that a law or its provisions were contrary to constitutional order. The petitioner justifies this intention by monitoring and contributing to the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms one of the primary tasks of the protector. Therefore, if the Ombudsman is to carry out this task effectively, he should have direct access to an institution which is entitled to the aspects of compliance with the constitutional order, which includes the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, to assess authority and to remove possible contradictions. The second proposed new measure is the bringing of a public action in the field of discrimination, which is often a problem affecting a larger number of unspecified entities, and therefore the actions of individuals cannot effectively lead to its complete suppression. Exactly, I will quote this amendment in Act No.198/2009 Coll., on equal treatment and legal means of protection against discrimination and on the amendment of certain laws, so-called. the anti-discrimination law, where paragraph 2 is amended in Section 10, to the following text: If a violation of the right to equal treatment or discrimination could affect a greater or indefinite number of persons or if they could seriously endanger the public interest, the Ombudsman may also seek to waive discrimination and remedy a faulty situation. According to the explanatory memorandum, the proposed modifications are in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. The proposal does not directly implement European Union law and will have no negative effects on the state budget. The reminder procedure was shortened to 10 working days, opened in July last year and the Government approved the proposal at its meeting on 8. 12. 2014. As I would not like to abuse the news reports for my own proposal, I would like to enter into a discussion where I will make an assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am registering your application for a debate and I therefore note that we have three people enrolled in the debate. So before that, I am opening up a general debate and I will ask for the first one, Mr Okamura, followed by Mr Fiedler, then rapporteur Mrs Adamová, and then Mr Mihola. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the greatest pain in our state is the everyday injustice committed by the state authorities on citizens. It sounds awful, but each one of us here in the House is certainly as much addressed daily as I am by people who ask for help in cases where they have been wronged by some state authorities. And it's just a small tip of the iceberg, because only a minority of people can effectively defend themselves and fight injustice to the last breath. From this point of view, the Ombudsman's institute, the Ombudsman, is truly a vital aid to the disabled and deserves maximum support. The idea that discriminated people can defend themselves sufficiently or defend themselves in a court of law is completely illusionary. It is therefore necessary to have an Ombudsman. And he must have the strength and authority to solve problems effectively, and he has no authority at present. It only reports and recommendations, which is toothless and absurd. The current proposal is going in the right direction, albeit quite inadequate. The law should allow the Ombudsman to deal with injustice at all levels, for example in criminal terms. And here the independent review of the work of state institutions is completely missing. And I and Dawn have been criticizing this situation for years. It is also a pity that, for financial reasons, the Government has deleted, on the basis of the proposal, the part concerning the monitoring of the rights of persons with disabilities pursuant to Article 33 (2) of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Czech Republic itself ratified. The quoted article obliges the Contracting Parties to establish a monitoring body within the meaning of an independent human rights protection and promotion institution fulfilling the so-called Parisian principles. From this point of view, therefore, establishing another new institution is far more expensive than entrusting it to the Ombudsman. But when we said A here, it is necessary to add B to this proposal. It is very difficult to decide on the strengthening of the powers of the Office, whose current chief Mrs Šabatová presents herself here as a defender of so-called discriminated minorities against the Czech majority, which, in fact, is the one who is discriminated against here. The reality is therefore exactly the opposite than the present Mrs Ombudswoman presents it. I would like to remind Mrs Šabatová and other similar types, such as Minister Dienstbier, that we all have human rights in our Republic. Not only Rom people, Muslims or Arab, as presented by these people, but also Čech, Moravan and Slezan. Human rights are not limited to intellectuals from the Prague cafe for elite sons. But the world wonders in quotation marks, according to the law, are to be taken by those whom these leprechauns call extremists. They are held by ordinary citizens in municipalities that terrorize inadaptable minorities. They have teachers who are afraid to give a bad grade to a slacker just because he's a Muslim. This is an example from Western Europe. Of course, I see that the Ombudsman's office dealt with hundreds of disabled people every day. But he's still failing something shamefully. In public defending everyone's rights, not just the chosen ethnicities and minorities. It is necessary and necessary for the Ombudsman to defend everyone's rights. None of us know when he will be the victim of an institutional injustice. Basically, this experience, I believe, can confirm many of us right here in the hall. For these reasons, when we see a considerable imbalance in the Ombudsman's view of defending the rights of the majority, the Úsvit movement cannot support the proposed change at present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u9	Thank you. I note one factual remark from Mr Chvojka. I'm gonna ask him for a point of fact. Mr Fiedler is then signed in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'll only react briefly, although I didn't want to perform in any way, to Mr. Foreman Okamura. I kind of expected him to perform, maybe tell us about the kebabs, the merry piggyhouses and the barking dog or other things. Unfortunately, this funny story - it did not continue as opposed to its Facebook profile. I just wanted to say one thing. I do not entirely agree with everything that the current Ombudsman, Mrs Šabatová's public defender of rights, is doing. I think her two predecessors were a little better when it comes to small-time legal work. Maybe because they were lawyers. However, there is one thing I would like to say to him. Every law that is passed here is generally binding and should not apply, we should not put on it the impression of a person who performs that function. That means, if we're approving the State's Attorney's Act and we're adjusting the Supreme Attorney's Institute somehow, then we shouldn't have much to look at who's in charge of the office right now. The same applies to the Ombudsman's duties. So it's not about Mrs. Šabatová, although we may not like how she does her job. It's about the institute. And for example, in five years' time, Mr. Okamura may be the Ombudsman - God forbid, God forbid - and the job may look completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Fiedler and the rapporteur, Mrs Adamová, after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u12	Good evening again. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to follow up on what Tomio Okamura said here, and also on what I know from the debate with you, colleagues, here in the Chamber of Deputies when we were discussing the subject. I've been asked a lot of times. And on the basis of what is our proposal or our opinion of our parliamentary club, I know that this view is also held by other parliamentary clubs or certainly by other Members, with a procedural proposal to reject this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u13	Thank you. I've registered your proposal. I will now ask for a speech to the debate by the rapporteur, Mrs Adamová, and Mr Mihola will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u14	Dear colleagues, according to the Government's amendment, the Ombudsman could now address the Constitutional Court directly with a request to repeal the laws or their individual provisions. At present, only the President or at least 41 Members or 17 Senators can directly address the Constitutional Court. The Constitution of the Czech Republic builds on the principle of division of power, namely legislative, executive and judicial, as we know, while the legislative power belongs to Parliament. The extension of these powers by the Ombudsman, who is elected by the Chamber of Deputies, would de facto result in a situation where the Ombudsman exercises a kind of supervision over the activities of the institution to which he is responsible for the performance of his duties. I consider this to be a completely non-systemic measure. The Ombudsman already has the opportunity to appeal to Members or Senators to file a motion for annulment of the law to the Constitutional Court. It is up to him to impress by his informal authority a sufficient number of legislators who can subsequently act in accordance with their respective competences. By including this authority in the Constitutional Court Act, the petitioner seeks to replace this informal authority with formal authority. Nor can it be assumed that the Ombudsman would make such proposals in large numbers. These would probably be units of cases. That is why I do not think that we should assign such a significant competence to the protector because of the case units. At present, the Ombudsman is not enshrined in the Constitution of the Czech Republic as opposed to the SAO. Therefore, if we want to move the seriousness of this institution towards increasing competences, let us first look at the amendment of the Constitution by anchoring the Ombudsman in the Constitution. If this is not done, we do not increase the Ombudsman's powers simply because the Ombudsman himself calls for such an increase in powers. If we look at the definition of the role of the Ombudsman in accordance with the current wording of the law, it can be noted that the institution has been set up to act to protect persons from the conduct of the authorities and also to conduct systematic visits to places where they are or can find persons restricted to freedom of public authority or as a result of the care provided, in order to strengthen the protection of such persons. The powers that this amendment wishes to give to it go beyond this task. That is why I believe that, first and foremost, there should be agreement on the incorporation of the Ombudsman's body in the Constitution, and then, if necessary, we should be able to deal with changes in powers. Such a procedure would be systemically correct and logical. That is why I have also decided to propose rejection at first reading. But I would like to say to this discussion that we really should not refer to the current Ombudsman, but to take it as an office, as an institution that is being held by someone at the moment, but it does not have to be that way of course and it will not always be that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u15	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm recording two factual points. The first is Mr Svoboda, and after that is Mr Jandák. Mr Mihola is then duly registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u16	Thank you. I would like to respond to what has been said here, i.e. the connection of decision making to the current Ombudsman. I am convinced that the concentration of excessive power in one hand is a fundamental mistake. That is why we also have these matters divided, and such a right of access to the Constitutional Court is, in fact, only the President as one person. I think that the rejection of this law is not at all based on who is currently the Ombudsman, but is based on the fact that putting such powers in the hands of one person is simply a fundamental and fundamental error. And we have an almost certain guarantee that in the future, when someone gets there who really isn't ideal for using that power. I've had a lot of experience with this. We gave the medical chamber great powers, and it turned out the way it did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u17	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Jandák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Just a colleague of Bendl. Don't worry, it won't be a fairy tale, even if it can become a horror movie. But what I'm proposing, ladies and gentlemen, because we're kind of talking about someone here. I would suggest that Mrs. Ombudswoman come to justify why she stands for wanting to extend her powers. I don't think that's a bad suggestion, because she's the one doing the job. I think from her mouth, if we'd heard it, it would have been better. So I suggest we stop and let Mrs. Ombudswoman perform at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u19	As this is a procedural proposal, I shall put it to the vote immediately. [[Noise in the hall, feelings of discontent with some Members.]] I shall vote immediately because, if the proposal is made, it must be put to the vote immediately under the Rules of Procedure. So I'm gonna ring my co-workers and my co-workers from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request. In that case, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you and ask you to rejoin your electronic cards. [[Members come into the hall and sign in.]] Given that the number of Members present has stabilized, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of interrupting this item. All in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against the proposal? I'm done with the vote. [[A round of applause for some Members following the appearance of the results on the board.]] It is the vote number 29 of the Members present and the Members present are 136, in favour of proposal 77, against 18. I note that the proposal has been approved and that this item has been suspended. Minister Dienstbier reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u20	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I am a little used to the fact that Mr Jandák here sometimes proposes nonsense, but the idea that there has now been a vote that the Government's bill will not be presented here by a representative of the government, but by a public defender of rights, who does not propose any extension of her powers, is proposed by the government... [[Noise in the hall. Mr Jandak off the microphone angry: No offense!]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a government proposal that follows from a government statement where these matters are explicitly mentioned. [[Adds to voice due to noise]] So, while, of course, I respect this decision by the Chamber of Deputies, the discussion of this proposal is suspended, I would only insist that it is still a government bill, not a bill that would be submitted by a public defender of rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u21	I will specify for the sake of order that we know where we are - the point is interrupted and at this point only Members and Members with priority rights can speak. I'm registering two requests for a performance, it's President Okamura and after him, President Kalousek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u22	Come on, Minister... [[Mr Jandak screams off the microphone: I will not be insulted!]] Well, I'll wait for them to argue with the Minister here in the CSSD. [[There's laughter.]] Minister, now you've answered your own question. You're a useless minister, and I'm calling you to resign! Your office is spending money for nothing. There's no benefit. And as you can see, even the Chamber of Deputies, instead of suggesting it, prefers to choose a Mrs. Ombudswoman. That's the result of the vote! You're useless, Minister. And we'd all rather... The House said we'd rather hear an explanation from Mrs. Ombudsman than from you! That's the result.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u23	Thank you. I'll ask President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u24	Without wanting to evaluate the level of benefits of individual government ministers, I would prefer it to be declared useless whole. [[O.R.'s down.]] [[Laughs especially from the right.]] So just, Minister, I really don't understand your outrage. Nobody's questioning the fact that no one can even change that it's a government proposal. And under the authority of the government, he is always defended by one of its members, and so it will undoubtedly continue. But the Chamber of Deputies, with a democratic majority on the proposal of a Social Democratic Member, decided that it wanted to hear the Ombudsman's opinion within the framework of this government proposal and to interrupt until... They're fighting, Social Democrats. [[In response to Jandak's MPs, Glass and Minister Dienstbier, who stand before their benches and more than lively and loudly "disbat" together. Laughs in the hall.]] And they fight a lot. [[Even more laughter in the hall. Let's hear it.]] We have interrupted this until we hear the Ombudsman's opinion, which I think is a perfectly legitimate request from the Chamber of Deputies, and it will be fulfilled. I'm just off the record. Of course he can't. The Chamber of Deputies has already agreed to such a thing. That point has been interrupted. But I have a request. Mr. Sklenák, call Křeček, too. [[Spoken in a begful manner. Laughs of Kalousek and most others.]] Imagine that we will listen to the public defender, and suddenly we will want to interrupt before the Ombudsman's representative comes out, because he is not appointed, he is also elected by the democratic legislature. Let him be here, too. I think it would be good to interrogate both of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u25	There. I'm just going to repeat the stage at which we interrupted the discussion of this point. A request has been made as to whether the Ombudsman may be present, and the item has been suspended until the next meeting. That means, Mrs. Ombudswoman, I suppose, we will. And once again, the item was interrupted by another meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm filing an application with Prime Minister Sklenák. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u26	Thank you. I dare ask for a 30-minute recess at the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-011-023.u27	Thank you. I'm registering your request. Since we have not voted to act today and vote after 7:00 p.m., I am interrupting this day's negotiations with the fact that we will continue tomorrow morning at 9:00 p.m. I wish you the rest of the day.
