ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The Organizing Committee of the House set out the draft agenda for this meeting on Thursday, 8 January this year and the invitation was sent to you on Friday, 9 January. I beg you all to re-enlist with your ID cards, because this is a new meeting. I shall repeat the numbers of the replacement cards, which means that Mr Kalousek has number 1, Mr Schwarz number 6 and Mr Tejc number 10. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Adolf Beznoska and Mr Jiří Petr. I'll ask if there's another proposal for a meeting verifier. It's not like that. I will therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of these two colleagues becoming verifiers to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 1. It's registered at this moment 138, for 121, against no one. I note that we have appointed the verifiers of the 25th meeting to Mr Beznoska and Mr Petrů. As far as apologies are concerned, the apologies from the 24th meeting apply, and I did not receive any more. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 25th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. With regard to the overall discussion of the agenda, I have several proposals and information from today's Gremium on which today's Gremium has agreed. Firstly, the Grémium proposes to include a new item on the agenda of the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The title of this item would be Information of the Government on the security situation in the Czech Republic. We propose to place this point firmly on Tuesday 10 February as the first point. In addition, the grémium proposes to comply with the following requests: Mrs Milada Halíková's request for the elimination of points 28 and 124, which is press 164, proposal of the Prague City Council for elections to municipal councils at second and third reading. We propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs comply with paragraph 96, press 336, which is a treaty with Georgia, be discussed on Thursday 12 February as the first point after written interpelations. Furthermore - this is for information only - Mr Vondráček has announced that he is taking back his bill, which is Press 355, paragraph 68. The President of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Jeroným Tejc, asked to exclude the following items from the draft agenda: paragraphs 12 and 108, second and third reading of the Civil Procedure Code, print 337, paragraphs 21 and 117, second and third reading of the press 106 again, also the Civil Procedure Code, paragraphs 22 and 118, second and third reading of the press 107, paragraphs 23 and 119, printing 124, also second and third reading, and paragraphs 26 and 122, printing 234, second and third reading. The mayor of the capital city of Prague, on behalf of the representative of the capital city of Prague, has requested the elimination of points 27 and 123, which is press 115, regulation of prostitution at second and third readings. Mr Faltýnek has announced that, on behalf of the petitioners, he is taking back the bill, press 194, paragraph 52 - we do not need to vote on this, but he has asked to exclude points 17 and 113, which is the second and third reading of the tourism law, the press 276, and the exclusion of point 41, which is the printing of 309,'s first reading of the Regional Development Support Act. Last information from my side - Friday 16. 1. Returned to the Senate The Chamber of Deputies draft environmental impact assessment law, press 299, draft public procurement law, press 300, and draft law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, print 339, which are prints which at the moment do not have a deadline and their possible inclusion in the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be decided only on the continuation of this meeting on 10 February. That's all on my side. I have an application from you on the agenda. Mr Laudát will be the first to speak, followed by Mr Jiří Dolejš. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm asking for peace. The Member will clearly propose a matter concerning the agenda of the meeting, and I will have to take note of the proposal. I wouldn't have heard it yet, so I'm asking for peace. And please those who want to discuss, including the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports - thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u2	So thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose the inclusion of a point called Immigration Policy of the Czech Republic. We publicly announced after the New Year - we started preparing this issue, it is nothing new and it does not respond to a situation that has changed dramatically in the meantime. Mr President, could you disperse the Social Democrats to settle in some way?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u3	I've noticed that my complaints haven't been answered, so either the noise from the left side of the spectrum stops or I interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. We have received very deeply disturbing reports already in the pre-Christmas period, and we have started preparing the issue during and between holidays, and I would ask you very much to comply with our request. We do not want to block the announced agenda in any way by this requirement and we are willing to accept the deadline and time when this item will be firmly placed. We believe, in view of the seriousness of the subject, that the presence of Prime Minister Sobotka and Minister of the Interior of Chovanec is necessary to discuss this point. I would therefore like to know when they will be in the House this week in this proposal, and accordingly we could agree that this point would be firmly placed. Brief justification for the inclusion of this item. For a long time now, Europe, especially the countries of the European Union, has been facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in modern history. According to estimates, up to 25 million people are on the run from war conflicts and economic misery from regions affected by war rage. These refugees are trying to reach the countries of the European Union by all means. The European Union is clearly not in control of this situation yet. Secondly, the situation has escalated recently with a movement called the Islamic State. His armed forces aren't shielded by any violence. On the run, millions of people survive in disastrous conditions in refugee camps, as moderate Muslims...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u5	Colleagues and colleagues, you leave me no choice. I'm asking again - and it's a couple up front again. Minister, I'm sorry, and the same goes for the Vice-President. If you want to consult things outside the boardroom! Please. **
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u6	Millions of people survive on the run in disastrous conditions in refugee camps, both moderate Muslims and especially Christians. I would draw particular attention to this group. Indeed, the overwhelming superiority of Muslim refugees controls and determines the lives of these refugee camps. The worse is the position of this particular group. These are, of course, runaways with Christian roots, which extend almost two thousand years ago, which means they have their culture and values for a longer period of time, from which our civilizations come out as well than we do. Three. Christian refugees find themselves in an impasse. Their assets are being looted, the closest relatives murdered, and it is highly likely that even in the event of the defeat of the Islamic State they have nowhere to return. These are families with a thousand - year - old Christian tradition that goes farther than ours, as I said. In their countries, they belonged to the middle and upper classes, both through their education and economic status, until the start of the conflicts of war. They're not Islamists, they're victims of Islamists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u7	Colleagues and colleagues...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u8	The model of a multicultural society, such as France, Belgium, Scandinavian countries and Germany, is no longer working. The tensions between communities and the majority population generate violence and more and more terrorism. Five. The ongoing discussions escalated by recent events in France, Belgium and today, as well as in Germany, show that not only politicians but also the media are sufficiently prepared for this explosive, sensitive issue. Six. With regard to our membership in the Schengen area, security situations are changing dramatically for us as well. Shortly explained. I do not want to begin this meeting when we held a minute's silence for the victims of terrorism in several countries, depicting the dramatic fates of Christian refugees, currently in Iraq, Syria, the status of kicks that were dramatic in Egypt and partly improved thanks to the takeover of power by the military. You've all heard and read yourself, with the fact that it looks from some dramatic film with a written script, about the fate of the Yazids, who are thinned in a way that is very reprehensible. For these reasons and for many others, we would like to ask you to include this point at which the following circles of problems would be discussed. One. Forms and scope of assistance to refugees on site. Two. The issue of asylum for Syrian, Iraqi Christians, Yazids and Copts. Creating something I would call safe asylum policy of the Czech Republic. Three. The position of the Czech Government on immigration and the fight against terrorism within the European Union. Four. Security situation in connection with terrorism, strengthening the security services budget, legislation, etc. Five. Reprocessing or adaptation of immigration policy in the context of the current situation. Six. Operational adaptation of the activities of the House bodies in an urgent priority. For example, the task of committees and subcommittees, the adjustment of foreign travel plans. I think it would be good if we succeeded in these points in some way, in order not to intersect it, to hold a structured debate, and not to end with the inclusion of this point at some point without an end, but in a very specific resolution that would give the government the limits to give it support to promote a single European immigration policy within the meaning of defending the Schengen countries, so that it would give it the opportunity to clearly explain to society if it was offering asylum to somebody here, which groups and why, to give it the opportunity and greater support to help refugees in refugee camps, so that citizens would hear clear signals, although it was already said, in some form, that there should be a point on the security situation in the Czech Republic. I personally fear what some politicians are doing and, of course, that society listens through the media, and they can accidentally cause such problems here in good faith that the Czech Republic can ruin its reputation for decades. If anyone's telling us to hire someone to help him, but when the conflict is over, let them come back. One - How many steps will the war end? Do you believe that Syrian Christians who have been losing the same in the long run - the same in Iraq - whether due to a minor birth rate, especially targeted suppression, genocide, will still have a chance, even if they somehow manage to cope with that environment in ten years' time, that they will still have a chance to return? These are not standard people that we should offer acceptance in our territory. They are often people with university education at prestigious universities. In their countries, they were middle and upper class. It can be expected that they would have a great chance to integrate into Czech society and not to be a burden, but to be an important pro-growth and also a human factor. Czech society is ill, Czech society does not often know what to do, what to produce problems in, but the real problems are not reducing the problems of personal individual people, individualities, but the real and fundamental problems lie outside the borders of our country. I ask you - when we have heard the debate since before Christmas - how would you feel if you had to listen in 1969 that someone wanted to hold a referendum on the reception of asylum seekers? How would you feel if someone hesitated to accept your children, where they are already criticizing whether they will live or not? Many politicians chased Václav Havel towards the end of last year. If you look at the pages with his passwords, you'll also find his shortcuts, his statement. And there you will find one among the ranks that says, "You will help yourselves most if you help the other." And this is true, I would say, particularly urgently in this case. Perhaps, in light of the fact that we would offer the highest form of help to people who suffer because of their religious beliefs, they are not economic refugees, so perhaps we would not just help them as much as we do ourselves. [[14.30 hours]] I would quite like the main political parties, or, until recently, the main political parties, if not here, to think about themselves, whether the civic principle and the principles of freedom apply only to the citizens of the Czech Republic who want to apply them to the citizens of the Czech Republic, to think about social society, right-wing social policy, whether they are limited only to citizens of the Czech Republic, or whether they are willing to apply this to new citizens of the Czech Republic who would actually benefit our country. I think it's much more effective how to help ourselves, even pragmatically in the economic area, than to go begging for something to China than to take risks with unstable economic giants on clay legs, which only need one fallen commodity and are slowly collapsing. All of this could be discussed at that point, which the leaders might think about. I am very concerned about the form that the public has been informed of, even from the public media, so far. What should I think of the survey of Czech Radio, which shortly after the events in Paris orders a survey and boasts that 98 percent of people do not want to accept asylum seekers in our territory. Of course, no one will say that asylum seekers are one and asylum seekers are another. So these are all things that can irreversibly sow hatred, closure into our society. It would be better to jump forward with both active and immigration policies, gain prestige in the international field, and not wait for the European Union to push us into the fact that we can't even choose, we won't have time to check out who's coming and who's not coming to our territory. If the government burns to other points, how to buy a scanner or identify people at a Ruzyn airport, I would like to see some regional airports within individual points, for example in that part of the security situation related to terrorism, know that not only does Ruzyna exist - the airport, but that international traffic, even Schengen/Non-Schengen, also have some regional airports, and that if it wants to control this space in a solid way, it will probably have to apply these facilities at other airports in time. But the existing operators will not have the funds and possibilities the state has. I think that it should also be addressed here, and the government should be given some time-limits to come up with really conceptual, thought-out moves, thought-out visions. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't put up a confrontational proposal on this point. I believe that this is a much greater priority than anything we have at the moment on the House's agenda. Since I don't know when the Prime Minister's gonna be here or not, I'm gonna ask if Wednesday afternoon, for example, or Friday, at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u9	My colleague, if you don't mind, I would suggest a solution, because you mentioned that you would require the presence of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, but he is excused from this meeting. We may not be able to figure out his presence on the next days of the negotiations, so if we could vote on something at this stage, this is about putting this item in a meeting, with the fact that, at the moment when there is an agreement and a familiarity about the presence of both of these ministers, we could decide on a firm inclusion later. That's probably a solution that's viable, and which we're going to avoid with any conjecture between you and the Prime Minister, or telephone questions about the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u10	Okay. So I'm making a motion to put this point on the ground that it shouldn't be today, and tomorrow morning we can deal with a solid classification, only then vote on a solid inclusion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u11	Yes, I think it is voteable at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u12	So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u13	Next is Mr. Jiří Dolejš, followed by Mr. Kolovratník. [[Peter Fiala reporting to the right.]] I'm sorry, I missed the priority... Do you agree to perform after Mr Dolejš? Yeah, okay. Then Mr Dolejš and then Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for your helpfulness and thank you for your say, Mr President. Let me propose a point in the agenda for this meeting which would bear the title Information on the position of the Government of the Czech Republic to negotiate the transatlantic treaty. Logic is simple, but I will briefly justify that you can make it clear that discussing the position of the Czech Government on this strategic document is very appropriate and that even time is the right one. I will remind you that the proposal for a transatlantic treaty has been negotiated since 2013, i.e. the negotiations are running for two years, and the importance is given by creating a free trade area where roughly half of the planet's gross national product would be generated. It is a grouping of countries that are very advanced, therefore exporting in this space is, as they say, the first export league. At the same time, the authors of this text, inspirers of this text, claim that the creation of this space will have significant pro-growth impulses, pro-growth effects, on both sides of the Atlantic. So it's significant. At the same time, it must be said that after those two years of negotiations, not in the small Czech Republic, but also in Europe, there is a degree of disagreement, a substantial degree of disagreement, as such a treaty should look. There is simply dissatisfaction with the course of negotiations and what we learn as part of the information that they should eventually be in the text of the contract. Even national governments, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, France, communicate essential reservations. Discussions are held very critically in the European Parliament. There are also important, strong citizens' initiatives of a European dimension that even want to issue a red card to this treaty, so-called stop it. Given that the original assumption, and so the European Commission declared that the negotiations would be concluded in 2015, this is probably not going to work because of these disagreements and we can talk about delay. Now no one will say if by 2016, or even 2017. I think the delay is the result of the negotiations that have been negotiated so far. So let us try to focus on whether we are able to enter this process more transparently from the positions of both Czech and European, so that we can explain what is happening to citizens and respond to their possible legitimate concerns. I would like to take the floor of Mr Mládek, the Minister of Industry and Trade, who, just before New Year's Silvestr, made a public promise that he wants to lead a dialogue - a dialogue on the final form of this transatlantic treaty, that so far the lack of public consultations organised by the European Commission should be held in Bohemia on a separate public debate, including on tripartite and with the NGO, i.e. with non-governmental organisations that are responsible for some kind of criticism. [[There's noise in the hall.]] As for the tripartite, I will remind you that the European Union Confederation warned against an uncontrolled process, declared that this transatlantic treaty should not... The negotiators and approvers of this agreement should not issue a bianco check. I also found a similar position on the website of the Czech Moravian Confederation of Unions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u15	Colleagues, fellow Members, the Member must keep raising his voice to shout you out, and it is already becoming unbearable. So I'm asking for peace again. We will be saving Mr Dolejš's vocal cords.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u16	I hope unbearable wasn't my speech, but only -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u17	Only its intensity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u18	And I believe that content can be of interest to those who will listen to me. So I'm coming to the very conclusion. I would just, of course, say - don't look at my proposal for some cheap English anti-Americanism. Definitely not. The American economy is part of the world economy, we want to trade with America, that's all for sure. Also, do not look for any fundamentalist resistance to free trade in the left-wing corners of this House. That's nonsense. I'm going to file for those who were just missing at the grocery store when we were discussing it. A long time ago, a bearded gentleman named Karel Marx wrote such a speech in 1848 concerning the law of grain - it was called The Speech of Free Trade. And it may surprise some, but he stood up for free trade and called free trade barriers a reaction. Of course, he added that he was against corporate and capital control, but that's another story. So the left is not against free trade. But we see that the release of trade can be very uneven. That this isn't about the desired condition, it's about whether there's an asymmetry on one side or the other. Whoever has ever perceived painful negotiations on GATT or WTO land on various trade liberalizations knows what a difficult positional struggle was for that or that advantage. And this difficult positional struggle is taking place even now in this meeting. I will give some risks, and that will end up being a good idea for people to either explain or say that if the reservations from Europe and the Czech Republic are not met, we will not be able to be for such a contract. One way to do this is to respond to the fact that there may be negative impacts on the differences in the regulatory environment in America and Europe. Regulatory differences are a fact. But the right of governments to regulate should be maintained so that they are not reduced, the standards of working protection, social security and, of course, environmental standards are softened. The second block of reservations or risk, as I see it, is the issue of arbitration in the investment chapter of this Treaty. The truth is, in disputes between the state and specific corporations, they just have to make a decision, and those arbitration mechanisms, the whole system that's incorporated there, it leads to concern that it could end in the domination of those corporations. And we probably don't want that. The last reservation is that the Treaty can affect, say, the protection of public services, as they are especially provided in Europe. It would certainly be wrong for these agreements, under the pressure of this arrangement, to be liberalized in some way, that a social European state would essentially be dissolved. They're worried. These concerns, these risks, specific provisions in this proposal need to be discussed. If the Minister was serious about transparency, let us start with it and start with it on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's suitable ground. So in order to complement what I probably haven't said yet, that point should be placed somewhere. I would suggest that he be placed as the first point in the news block. I believe that at our pace, we're going to work towards some block of news, so that could be the first point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Kolovratník, I have three requests for a performance with priority rights. The first is Chairman Fiala, then President Kalousek and then Minister Mládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not regret having preferred Vice-President Dolejš because at least I learned that the left, even the communists, are not against free trade, so it was worth the lesson. However, I want to return to a subject which is very important and which has already been mentioned here by Mr Mr Laudát, and explain here the position of the Civil Democratic Party on the agenda for the meeting and the inclusion of this item. We announced about ten days ago and again last week that we will propose to include an extraordinary item in Government Information on Immigration and Security Policy in connection with current events in the world, and we have called on the government coalition to include this point on such a serious subject that, even though some media are questioning it, it really bothers our citizens, it does not prevent us and, on the contrary, it has come to our attention. I have understood the proposal from the Chamber of Deputies, which was presented here, that the government coalition has complied with our request and that this point will be included, although I do not fully understand why it should be until 10 February. But so be it. On this basis, we are prepared to wait for this debate, however much we welcome the initiative of our colleagues from the TOP 09 to deal with this point earlier. However, because we believe that this time the government coalition is really ready to debate that the Prime Minister and the ministers concerned are really ready to debate this serious issue with the Chamber of Deputies and that this time there is no trick and that this debate will actually take place here, so the Civil Democratic Party itself will not propose an extraordinary point with this name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Member and Chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek Club and after that with priority rights, Minister Mládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Jiří Dolejš's performance was to such an extent interesting, but so sophisticated, that I would take the liberty of simplifying it for the record. He basically told us here - and it was very interesting: we communists are in favour of free trade, provided that free trade is only what we call free trade. That's a fair statement. However, I would like to point out through the President, Mr Dolejš, that this position is occupied. It is occupied very strongly by the ANO movement and its owner, who declared himself a believer of the ideology, which says what free trade is and what free trade may be and what must not be. [[The laughter of several Members]] So maybe you guys can either make a deal and somehow split up or back out of that position. Because I'm stressing again, it's occupied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u23	Now Minister Mládek, after him President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the two points that are taking place here because they both concern my department. It's a debate about the TTIP. I would like to confirm Mr Dolejš's belief that I personally and my office are ready to discuss the TTIP. I would like to say that we had here on 6 November the main negotiator of the European Union on TTIP with the United States of Ignacio Garcia Bercer with the participation of the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Mr Dlouhýý and the President of the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions, pan Středula. So we're going to do this, and we're going to do it. I am not avoiding negotiations on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Personally, I would prefer a seminar, because this subject is not easy and at the Chamber of Deputies meeting we will get into a problem that there will be no points that I, too, am trying to discuss here, not only on the law, but also on some contracts that are still being postponed. So I'm applying, but I'd prefer a parliamentary seminar on this matter. Then there is a question that is very emotionally discussed, i.e. Immigration policy to deal with those events that took place in Paris and which are just too reduced to the issue of immigration policy. There's a total picture of our international relations, including our economic relations, coming out of it. Of course, Czech citizens expect and want to be assured in the debate that all the elements of state power, legislative, executive and judicial, are doing everything they can to live their lives in peace, freedom and harmony with their surroundings, and in that they have all the necessary means and competences. [[14.50 hours]] In this regard, the government took the first steps. These means and competencies must be sufficient to identify and minimise all forms of terrorism, fanaticism, fundamentalism and acts of racism, anti-Semitism and xenophobia in a timely manner. Let us insist that against these extremely dangerous phenomena, more ruthless and more sophisticated recently, we will face with all our determination, in close cooperation with our allies, with all those who share the values of freedom, democracy, human rights, mutual respect and tolerance. These values are not negotiable. It is also indisputable that, in addition to the equality of rights and opportunities of citizens of this country, the obligation to respect applicable laws and to respect the principles of good coexistence applies. Respect and tolerance must not be confused with naivety and weakness. However, let us be convincing enough to assure that even at this moment we are not willing to sacrifice these values and principles and laws in order to combine crimes and criminal acts in advance with religious beliefs, in this case with Islam, and to be tempted to seek simplified solutions, to pause or to apply the principle of collective guilt. Such an approach would lead us in the wrong direction and lead us to wider expressions of intolerance. At the same time, it would be contrary to our democratic traditions, international commitments, as well as to the long-standing principles of foreign policy of the Czech Republic and its interest in developing cooperation with Arab and Muslim countries. Let us use this moment to send a clear signal as one of the outputs of our debate towards our partners in these countries. A signal from which it will be clear that we are capable and will distinguish between Islam and terrorism, between religion and fundamentalism and between reality and bias and that it will depend on the Muslims themselves, how the perception of these relations will evolve, how they themselves will consistently distinguish the spiritual nature of Islam from violence and actively combat its abuse. I believe it is also useful to make it clear at this point that the Czech Republic is interested in further developing relations with Arab and Muslim countries and that it wants to trade and exchange investments with them, that it will continue to have dialogue with them, including on issues on which we have different views, and that we are interested in exchanging cultural values and deepening interpersonal relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u25	Yes, thank you, Minister. Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good day. Very briefly on account of the comments of Mr Kalousek's colleague on the appearance of Jiří Dolejš, let me make a bit of reference to the fact that we communists are the ones who want to determine which trade is free and which trade is not free. That's what you all know, you should be setting up a free market. So it's the market itself. But, well, I am personally convinced that there has never been a free market, that there have always been some corrections and regulations, but as far as what he said in his proposal to include that point, Mr Dolejš, we communists do not want to set rules, we just want to do so so-called. free trade, free market Czech, Moravian and Silesian entrepreneurs in a relationship e.g. To the United States, they didn't drag the end of the rope through programming and constantly and constantly. We simply want the freedom of the market to be more friendly to all, including to us Čech, Moravan and Slezan. The point is, we feel that what goes in under the TTIP contract is not entirely - and I will say it in general - friendly to free market participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kolovratník has the floor now, after which Mr Koníček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u28	Mr President, thank you. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, hello, lately a nice new year. I've got two points for the election committee. Before I briefly introduce them, I will, after all, allow myself to respect my previous speakers and the points they have said: the Slovak Parliament has one minute to request a new point and it works, so I would like you to consider the length of your performances next time. And, of course, to do what I ask, I will try to be very brief. Firstly, I ask you, colleagues, on behalf of the Election Commission, to include a completely new electoral item on the agenda of the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The item would be entitled "Proposal for the election of members of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund." I am asking you for this new point in cooperation with the Minister of Culture and I will explain that the mandate of the current Council ends on 4 April 2015 and it is important to elect all members, there are 9 of them in sufficient time to get to know the projects. Technically everything is ready, we discussed the proposals for candidates in the electoral committee today after lunch and the resolution is prepared as a basis for this choice. So once again: the inclusion of a new electoral item The proposal to elect members of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund would be one vote. And then the second vote, the whole block of electoral points, i.e. points 125 - changes in the composition of the House's bodies, 126 - election of the Commission President to D47, 127 - election of members of the Vinařský Fund Supervisory Group and, if necessary, a new approved point by the Council of the State Cinema Fund, so all these four ballot points will be included for this Friday, 23 January at 10.30 pm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Mr Koníček has the floor, after which Mr Korte will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in July last year, the House did not approve the agenda for the meeting at which it was included. Point, which was named Information of the Government on the procedure of central government bodies in the implementation of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies. As I said, six months ago, the agenda was not approved at all, but Prime Minister Sobotka spoke on the agenda and said that he was ready to speak with such information at the next House meeting. That was at the 13th meeting, we are now opening the 25th meeting, so I would like to give the Prime Minister a chance to inform the central authorities of the implementation of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., and therefore I propose the inclusion of a new point, which would be named in the same way as at the 13th meeting, i.e. Information of the Government on the procedure of the central authorities of the state administration in the implementation of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, and I propose to include at the end of the news block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u31	Yes, thank you. Mr Korte, Mr Kasal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must comment on the proposal made here by Mr Kolovratník, i.e. to complete our programme on the election of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u33	I don't want to enter your speech, but at this stage, you have to propose a new item for the program. If you only want to comment on what has fallen here, there is no room for it, because you do not have a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u34	I want to give the opinion of the TOP 09 and the Mayor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u35	Well, we have both the chairman of the club and Vice-President Laudat. Maybe we can work this out by giving Prime Minister Kalousek priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u36	Thank you. I beg your understanding, and I beg your indulgence, Mr President, also for you, ladies and gentlemen, so that, given the professional focus of the club, Mr Korte, a fellow Member may speak. I am moving away from the House for this purpose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u37	Okay, so we're gonna pretend that both the two owners of the priority right aren't here, and I assume that you're internally adjusted to be represented by Mr Korte. But it's a great deal of indulgence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start from a seemingly distant point of view, but only seemingly. In ancient Greece, at the top of Athens' democracy, it was the moral duty of an adult man to deal with matters in public, that is politics. On the other hand, a person who dealt only with his private affairs and did not engage in public matters was somewhat pejoratively called idiots, which could be translated as a private person. The Minister of Culture Herman fills all the features of such a private person. He is not in charge of the governance he is in charge of, and instead he is dealing with in his private insulted vanity, filled with anger and revenge against the USTR, whose issue is repeatedly dragged into the House's land, although it is none of our business, these matters. THE STREET DOESN'T ANSWER The Chamber of Deputies, but my advice. The Council of the USTR is not responding The Chamber of Deputies, but the Senate. Minister Herman knew well that the Council of the State Cinematography Fund ended as a whole on 4 April. From then on, the fund will be inoperable. Although he had proposals on the table for the members of the fund from the relevant professional organisations, he sent these proposals to the House on 22 December, although he had to know that the board would not be elected by 4 April. Let us be an example of the Council of the Culture Fund. The minister sent 25 candidates to the House, then withdrew them, sent 13, then withdrew it, sent 25 again, and we chose two with all our strength. Ladies and gentlemen, the entire stage for the failure of the Cinema Fund Council from 4 April will fall on our poor heads. We're the ones who haven't been able to choose the appropriate advice. And the cinematic community will rip us to shreds. I, please, for the TOP 09 and the starosta, say that all responsibility for this situation falls on the head of Minister Herman and his inaction, which I add that we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. The last is Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to propose the withdrawal of paragraph No. 15, House press 270, from the discussion of this meeting at second and third reading. This is due to the interruption of this point in the discussion of the Health Committee, where the negotiations are not yet completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u41	Yes, thank you. Those were all the applications for the agenda so far. I'll ask if anyone else wants to get out. If that's not the case... that's the case. Member and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Mihola Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u42	Hello again. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I will not be late, but I would like to briefly comment on the immigration matter and the KDU position, because it is a serious matter. There was a draft of a point here from my colleague Laudát. I very positively accept that there were even specific circuits, which is not always the case. However, I propose to consider, and the consensus on this was that the issue of security would be discussed here in the second week of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, if these issues could not be combined. We constantly come across the fact that the agenda is not overdue, some points are serious. Here it would be offered to really unite matters of state security and immigration into one. I would like to say that KDU-ČSL is certainly not indifferent to the question of the suffering of the people in the First East. On the other hand, we were those who had already organized at Wenceslas Square at the end of October, which pointed out atrocities and violence. I wouldn't even split up on Christians, on any kind of person. We condemn any violence. I would like to stress that the chair of the Committee on European Affairs, a colleague here, Benešík, held a traditional meeting with Czech MEPs on this matter before Christmas, as well as negotiations with Mr Garcia, who is the main negotiator of the European Commission for these matters. Moreover, the Committee on European Affairs plans to hold a seminar on this subject in order that the subsequent political debate should not only be supported by facts and arguments, but simply be informed. In the third time, I would like to say that the KDU-ČSL expert foreign committee is very careful about this issue, so of course this is related to the preparation of the MP's club. In this context, I also welcome the fact that the Foreign Committee will address this issue at its next meeting. It's at my request, after all. After proper points, there will be an extraordinary point of Ukraine and also an immigration policy linked to the situation in the East. Thank you for your attention and please consider whether it would not be solvable to combine points in one on 10 February, as we agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u43	Thank you. I'll ask if anybody else is checking in. If you don't, I'll try to organize everything that's fallen here. We have here a proposal from the Gremium where, I suppose, there is no controversy on other points. There is only a debate on the information point. After consulting the Prime Minister, I propose that we try to bring these two things together, and the title of the point proposed on Tuesday, 10 February, as the first item, could be the Government's information on the security situation and immigration policy. I ask if this is what it would be called if TOP 09 would be willing to accept this connection. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since it's about the thing, yes. I accept that, but I would like this point to be discussed this week. If anyone has the time and sets up a commission instead of helping people, because then we don't have to help them anymore, it's unacceptable for me, so I don't want it to be there on February 10th, but tomorrow or the day after, according to the information of the Prime Minister here, the point will begin. By 10 February, we would try to find a resolution on a number of points that would have majority support across the House, and there were concrete steps to be taken on what anyone would do, and on 10 February we would discuss it. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u45	Mr. Chairman Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to appeal again to my colleague Laudát. I have stressed here that this matter will be dealt with specifically at its meeting by the Foreign Committee, and that will be next week. So, from my point of view, it is precisely as far as the preparation is concerned that we are here to rely on factual arguments, and the meeting has reached some concrete conclusions, and with forgiveness, it has not completely sprung up that the later date will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u47	I have noted both from President Mihola's response and from the reactions of other club presidents that it is not the will to surrender on 10 February. Probably the only way we're gonna get out of this is by voting. If there is no objection to knowing what we are voting on, we can say that we are modifying the original proposal from Gremia to Government Information on Security and Immigration Policy. If one of the grémia questioned this, then we would have to insist on the original proposal. I ask if there is an objection to the modification of the agreement from the Gremia, so that the item is called Information of the Government on the Security Situation and Immigration Policy. Is there an objection to this? Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u48	Since Mr Mihola of the KDU-ČSL has enough time, I insist on voting on my proposal alone. Then deny it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-000-000.u49	Yes, we will, for you have properly delivered it and have not withdrawn it. So maybe the easiest solution is that first we deal with things from the Gremium, in two steps, if there are no objections. The first will be this new point and then all the other, let's say, would be technical proposals. Is he okay with that? Yes. So now we will vote on the inclusion of a new point that would sound: Government information on the security situation and immigration policy, firmly on Tuesday, February 10, as the first point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 2. It's registered 185, 156, no one. This proposal was adopted. And then there are these, let's say, technical proposals. Would anyone like me to repeat them again, or do we know what we are voting on? We know what we're voting on. It's a grémium deal. So I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the House's proposals to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 3. It's registered 185, 180, no one. This proposal was adopted. We will now deal with the individual proposals as they have been taught. Mr Laudát new item on the agenda of the meeting entitled Immigration Policy of the Czech Republic. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number four. It's registered 186, 79, 63. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr. Jiří Dolejš new point. As a first point in the news block Government Information on TTIP. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting number five. Registered 187, for 48, against 104. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Kolovratník will firmly include election points 125, 126, 127 plus a new point called election to the Council of the State Cinematography Fund, and all this firmly on Friday 23. 1st at 10:30. Can we vote at once? Yes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 6. The application is 187, for 181, against no one, this proposal has been accepted. Mr. Koníček, a new item, at the end of the news block. A title of point: Information of the Government on the procedure of central government bodies in the implementation of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies. Is that correct, Mr. Ambassador? [[Mr. Horsey agrees.]] That's right. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 7. Registered 187, for 48, against 97. This proposal has not been adopted. The last proposal is Mr Kasal, excluding paragraph 15, which is only a second reading. I'm assuming there's one more point that's going to be a third reading. If you agree, I don't know the number of the point in my head, but point 15 is the second reading of the printing 270 and there is one other point that is the third reading of the printing 270, and we would also eliminate it. Do we all understand what we're voting on? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 8. The application is 187, for 183, against no one, even this proposal was accepted. I will ask if all the proposals tabled have been voted on. This is the case, so we can vote on the entire proposal for a 25th meeting, as it has been tabled in writing and amended by approved amendments. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 9. Registered 187, for 128, versus 30. This proposal has been adopted, and I am of the opinion that we have approved the agenda of the 25th meeting. Before we proceed to discuss the bills passed by the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow Senator Veronika Vrecionová and Senators Karel Kratochvíle, Radek Martínek, Jaromír Strnad, Pavel Štohl and Miloš Vystrčil to appear. Information on the Senate's amendments has been distributed to you in the mail. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to the speech of the appointed senator and appointed senators, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 10. Registered 187, for 161, versus 4. This proposal was adopted. So we can proceed to point number
