ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-010-074.u1	74. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Principality of Monaco on the exchange of information in tax matters signed in Monaco on 31 July 2014 /German press 318/ - first reading As Deputy Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Ms Karla Šlechtová, Minister of Regional Development, has traditionally stated this on behalf of the Government. I would ask my colleague Pavel Šrámek, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, and I cannot just replace him as at second reading to prepare. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-010-074.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore justify the Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to express its agreement to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Principality of Monaco on the exchange of information in tax matters. It was signed for the Czech Republic by Ambassador Marie Chatardová, Minister of Foreign Affairs José Badia for the Government of the Principality of Monaco. Since 2010, the Ministry of Finance has negotiated, in cooperation with the General Financial Directorates with jurisdictions with a preferential tax regime, an agreement on the exchange of information for tax purposes. For the time being, these negotiations have resulted in 15 final draft texts which are subsequently undergoing a legislative process leading to ratification by the President. 8 agreements have already entered into force, which are announced in the Collection of International Treaties. The negotiation of this Agreement shall take place on the basis of a model draft directive for expert negotiations on information exchange agreements. The proposed agreement fully complies with OECD standards for the international exchange of tax information. The object of the agreement is the taxes levied on which the parties agreed in the course of expert negotiations. Information provided under this Agreement shall be subject to tax confidentiality. By concluding this agreement, the Czech Republic will be able to request the competent authority of the Contracting State for information that is relevant for determining and securing the payment of taxes or possibly. to investigate or prosecute tax offences. However, due to the legal constraints laid down by the domestic law, cooperation in obtaining evidence reserved for judicial authorities in criminal matters does not include cooperation. The application of the agreement can be expected the possibility of Czech tax administrators adopting a tax which Czech tax residents would not have paid, as well as an increase in the tax discipline of domestic residents for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-010-074.u3	I thank Minister Karla Šlechtová for her opening words on this ratification, and I would ask Pavel Šrámek, the rapporteur for the first reading on this press, to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-010-074.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not repeat the words of the Minister, who represented the Minister of Finance brilliantly. I will only add that the conclusion of the agreement is in the interests of the Czech Republic, given the significant contribution of obtaining another effective instrument for tax administration. This is in particular an opportunity to check whether the income or property of Czech tax entities has been properly taxed. Information obtained under this Agreement may also be used to detect tax offences. I propose that this press proceed to the second reading for discussion by the Foreign Committee of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-010-074.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. Since no proposal has been made for a general debate, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So we will decide on the commandment in the vote 165 that I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment of the press 318 to the foreign committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 165 of 137 for 121, against no one, the proposal was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee of Foreign Affairs and that the time limit for discussion is under the Rules of Procedure Act. I'm ending point 74, and since I have both the petitioners and the newsletter in my seats, I can begin point 75 and I will try to discuss it by noon break. That's what it is.
