ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u1	11. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the effectiveness of the recodification of private law /house print 306/ - second reading I would like to inform you that yesterday we interrupted this point before the Minister's opening words, so that at this stage the Minister can approach the rhetoric and, under the authority of the Government, state this press. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. But I'm asking for peace! I really ask you to settle down, especially the group before me. Thank you. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u2	Mr President, my dear colleagues, as I have already submitted yesterday, the proposed amendments relating to the re-codification of private law, namely the adoption of the new Civil Code and the acquisition of its effectiveness, are based on the knowledge we have gained in applying the accompanying laws, and aim to eliminate problems that make it impossible for the proper application not only of the Civil Code but also of the related legislation. The material was processed in accordance with the legislative work plan. In particular, these changes are concerned. This is an amendment to the Law on judicial fees, when the person of the payer is changed to the court fee for registration in the public register. Therefore, according to the proposed amendment, this should be the one asking notaries to carry out the registration. The notary was the payer of such a court fee. The amendment follows Act No.304/2013 Coll., on Public Registers, where it is stipulated in § 108 and the following new notary permissions to carry out direct entries in the public register. Under the legislation in force, a notary himself is the taxpayer of the court fee for registration in the public register, which appears inappropriate. The notary is not a party to the minutes, only the minutes are carried out, as has so far the court. Therefore, the proposed regulation amends the payer's fee for registration. The fee will be the one who asks the notary to make a record. The notary will be the payer of the court fee that collects and pays the fee administrator. The amendment regulates the process of collection of court fees by notaries and the execution of a court. By this regulation, register courts will challenge significantly fewer proposals than the previous minutes made by the courts. The draft law creates a new judicial fee for the entry of facts into the public register by a notary. It's a new item 39 of the law on court fees. A court fee of 8 thousand will be levied for the first registration of a public limited company. CZK, 12,000 so far in court. Kč. For the first entry of a person into the public register with the exception of a public limited company, we propose a fee of CZK 2,700, in court 6 thousand. Kč. For changes or addition of a court fee of 1 thousand. CZK 2,000 in court. Kč. The main reason for such a reduction is that direct notary registration does not place such claims on the court. At the same time, however, a court fee must simply be charged because the court will continue to conduct the register files. The main advantages that direct notary notary notaries bring are a significant acceleration of writing. You know that we also have a legislative task at present to enable the creation of limited liability companies for an overall amount not exceeding EUR 100 and also within three days. Even this proposal, which I am putting forward here, the second request, which is actually such a preconciliatory for drawing funds from European funds, accelerates the notary that will carry it out in one day, basically shortens the current time, which is around one week in a way that already predicts the conditions that have been set for us and whose failure to comply would jeopardise the drawing of the so-called European money. So for the business environment, this change brings its indisputable positives. [[9.10 hours]] In addition, the reduction of court fees is therefore proposed in the opposite direction to increase the judicial fee for filing an electronic payment order application. As you know, this has caused some debate here at first reading in the past. The discussion has continued in the framework of the constitutional committee, and I would therefore like to present once again in summary the reasons why we think that a judicial fee should be increased for the application for an electronic order of payment, in order to partly compensate for the revenue received from the Court's budget for court fees. So the procedure for issuing an electronic payment order in two thirds of cases ends with a transfer to agenda C and the court continues the procedure. In other words, the main cause leading to the transfer from the electronic order to the agenda C is the failure to deliver the electronic order to the defendant into his own hands and the obligation of the court to cancel the electronic order of payment. In practice, we know that the plaintiffs often file a motion for electronic payment order precisely because the court fee for such an application is lower than in the case of an application for the initiation of civil proceedings. They simply presume that the electronic payment order will not be delivered to the defendant and the court will continue the proceedings, and they will do so by handing him - the higher court fee - and actually paying less, even if they know well that the matter will not be dealt with by electronic payment order. Therefore, the Justice Department also proposes that the exemption for the application for an electronic payment order consisting of a reduced judicial fee should be abolished. This is the main reason. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] For the next one. The proceedings in cases of unemployment aid, aid for retraining and compensation and proceedings in cases of foster care benefit are exempted from the legal fee, since there is no reason for proceedings in cases of foster care benefit to be subject to a different regime from similar proceedings, which are referred to in Section 11 (b) of the Law on judicial fees, even if only by amending Law No. 359/1999 Coll., on the socio-legal protection of children, as amended, they were charged without the direct intention of the legislator. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice complied with the Ombudsman's demands in its 2012 summary report on the Ombudsman's activities. Mr President, I know that this is tiring and tiresome - Mr President, I know it is tiresome and tiring to read...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u3	Yes, I understand. I'm trying to make peace during your speech, but I'm not doing very well. So I guess I'm gonna have to start calling those who cancel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u4	My point is to monitor the level of fees and proposals for reductions and increases, in most cases it is a reduction, and only in the case of an electronic payment order to cancel the exemption, and hence its increase, so that we can then discuss the amount of court fees, because the constitutional committee has adopted certain proposals. And if we don't watch the debate now, there might be some confusion. With regard to the amendment of the Law on judicial fees, we propose charging the registration of a business company duly established by a commercial corporation made prior to the registration of a commercial corporation in the public register with a fee of CZK 1000. The Act on Public Registers provides for the provision of § 48 para. 2 so-called pre-registration of a business company. That means the company is registered before the corporation itself is registered. Thus, the founders of a trading corporation can ensure the protection of their chosen name for a specified time. That was the main reason - to create a certain time pillow within which this could be realized. And we propose to make a proposal to so-called. The pre-registration was charged, but only in the amount of a thousand crowns. So this is all when it comes to amending the law on judicial fees, when some - basically all - increase, introduce and de facto reduce one when we cancel the exemption for an electronic payment order. The second amendment concerns the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure. In view of the practice currently showing that some originally intended intentions in the jurisdiction of the court did not prove to be good in practice, it is proposed to change the substantive jurisdiction in proceedings concerning the contributions of members of the community to the administration of the house and the land, and in disputes concerning advance payments for services and the way in which the price of services is budgeted. As far as content is concerned, it is essentially disputes that are normally ongoing on unpaid rents and are dealt with in a very qualified and routine manner by district courts. According to the effective legislation in force, introduced by the new Civil Code on 1 January 2014, this competence, jurisdiction, is now held by regional courts. Moreover, in the past, the Supreme Courts have ruled very differently on the substantive jurisdiction of the courts. So, for all these reasons, the proposal now makes it clear that the relevant district courts should again decide to decide in the above-mentioned proceedings on the contributions of members of the community which are similar to rent disputes. The proposed regulation thus clearly determines the jurisdiction in question and does not burden other superiors, i.e. the Supreme Courts, to decide any jurisdictional disputes. Another amendment concerns the law on special court proceedings. The latter adds in a clear way that the surviving spouse who, on the basis of the settlement of the property, either by agreement or by order of the court, acquires all the property after his deceased spouse is obliged to pay the notary the remuneration, the reimbursement of the completed expenses and the compensation for the value added tax, first of all, in cases where the joint property of the spouse dies by the death of one spouse and the surviving spouse subsequently agrees with the heirs on the settlement of SJM. This means there is a situation where there is no other heir who would pay the costs of the notary. Secondly, the proposal addresses this situation in such a way that, under the agreement of the surviving spouse and heirs or by decision of the court, the joint property of the former spouses is settled and the proceedings for inheritance are subsequently terminated due to estate without property, respectively. the property is of very little value, the costs of the notary are paid by the surviving spouse to whom the SJM came. [[Permanently strong noise in the hall.]] For the next one. The local jurisdiction of the court in the proceedings for the sale of pledges is changing. This is another amendment clause of the Law on Special Proceedings of the Courts. According to the effective regulation contained in Sections 354 to 358 of the Law on special proceedings of the judicial local court, the court of the person in whose interest the proceedings are held is competent. That means it's always the plaintiff's general court. However, such a solution is unusual for this type of driving. That is why we propose that the local court should be general -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u5	I'm sorry. Again, more strongly, I ask for peace in the House!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u6	- was the general court of the debtor in the event of a pledge other than property. And in the case of immovable property, it should be the competent court in whose territory the property, the immovable property, is situated. So it's perfectly logical, standard, and it has a certain tradition. The proposed provision is clearly stated which court is competent for such proceedings. [[9.20 hours]] Finally, the last amendment concerns an amendment to the Administrative Rules of Procedure, when the local jurisdiction of the court changes. Procedures for the benefit of foster care and for the management of foster care and unemployment benefits shall exempt them from the legal fee. In current legislation, the distribution of the agenda in these matters is highly uneven, which, among other things, is often reflected in an undesirable different length of legal proceedings. This is mainly due to the congestion of the Municipal Court in Prague, when the proceedings last disproportionately long, the public, especially lay, rightly criticises this. According to current legislation, the local jurisdiction in the case of foster care benefits is governed by the registered office of the primary administrative authority. The regional branches of the Labour Office, the head office of which is Prague, decide on the benefits of foster care. The Municipal Court in Prague is therefore competent. And what we are proposing is that local jurisdiction in matters of foster care should be determined according to the applicant's residence, as it is in other disputes, on issues relating to employment. This agenda shall be transferred to regional courts according to the applicant's residence. Therefore, local jurisdiction will not be determined by the registered office of the administrative authority which issued the decision at first instance. This proposed legislation also responds in agreement. It follows the Ombudsman's recommendations contained in his summary report. The Ministry of Justice thus complied with his recommendation with this proposal. You can see that these are all procedural changes that should facilitate, accelerate, simplify and clarify decisions, but in different types of proceedings and disputes. In the introduction, therefore, there is still a change in court fees. So these are the changes that are very necessary, and I therefore turn to you with a request for their positive assessment and then approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u7	Thank you, Minister. We ordered this proposal in the first reading to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Committee's resolution was delivered as press 306/1 and 2. Please the rapporteur, Mr Lukáš Pleticha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u8	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, the 306 press was ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee, which dealt with it at its 24th meeting on 15 January 2015. The Constitutional Committee has recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill, and further recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt a few amendments to this proposal, which I will now brief you on. The first proposal for amendment and additions - this is the removal of the interpretation uncertainty of the associations, and that the associations should be exempted from the legal fee even in the original. That's under point II-1. Furthermore, the Constitutional Committee suggested that the exemption of health insurance companies from the judicial fee should be renewed, because the Ministry of Health agreed to this proposal, and that the transaction costs of the recovery of health insurance plus additional claims can be expected to be reduced, and that more money will be raised, or with less money for the health system. Another amendment proposed by the Constitutional Committee there is that electronic payment orders remain to maintain a reduction in the court fee, as it is so far. Another thing that we have been dealing with is a reduction in the court fee for the proposal for registration of facts in the public register made by a notary, but not to the extent that the Ministry of Justice itself proposes, but also reduced, but a little more, so that for the first registration of a public company it is CZK 10,000. For the first entry into the public register, with the exception of the joint stock company or association, there was CZK 5,000 and for changes or additions made by the notary was CZK 1,500. With this proposal, we are pursuing the same objective as the Minister, so that the courts can get rid of it, so that it is convenient for notaries to take over this agenda, but that there will be no such loss of revenue in the justice system. Then we also adopted a motion for a resolution to extend the competence of notaries to the insertion of documents into the Charter Collection. Finally, we have adopted a few more technical modifications, all of which you have in print 306/2. Finally, the proposed start of legal effectiveness had to change, because according to the original plans these changes should have started to apply on 1 January 2015. This is no longer possible, so there has also been a change in the proposal that the law and these changes should start to apply on the first day of the calendar month following the day of its publication. Furthermore, traditionally, the Constitutional Committee has commissioned the chairman of the committee to pass on these resolutions to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, empowered the Committee rapporteur to do what I, too, have done at the meeting, which is what I am doing. Furthermore, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, it should carry out appropriate legislative technical adaptations. I think that is briefly what we agreed on, and the other one does not have to comment too much, because the opening word of the Minister was exhausting and I have nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-001-011.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. Before I open the debate, two apologies. Mr Grospič from 14 a.m. to the end of the sitting day due to the working session and Mr Benešík from 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. 30 a.m. for working reasons. I am opening a general debate for which I have no application yet. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate and starting a detailed debate. I don't have any applications either, so I am ending the debate in detail. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. As there was nothing that required a vote, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We'll continue with point 12, which is
