ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and other related laws /German press 351/ - second reading It's a point that was interrupted yesterday. I ask Minister Mládek and rapporteur Milan Urban to take their seats, and we will continue with the interrupted general debate in which I have eight applications. The floor will be given to the Member - I am sorry, I am informed that Mrs Hnyková has already made her contribution. Mr Fiedler and Mr Lank will have the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u2	Good morning, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I make my contribution, I would have followed up on yesterday's hearing here. They are both present at the rapporteur's table, both the petitioner and the rapporteur. Yesterday, I raised the question of where we are in such a hurry to discuss this law, and I have not received an answer yet. I would like to repeat this question immediately at the outset. Why are we in such a hurry to discuss this law, to which we have so many reservations that there are many problematic places? I believe I will receive an answer to this question today. I would now like to comment on the report by the Supreme Audit Office, in particular on the audit conclusion where some scandalous revelations are. To help, I will take the opinion of both the SAO and the Energy Regulatory Authority. The audit report points out several essential facts that contributed to the Czech Republic paying CZK 1 trillion for the promotion of renewable resources, i.e. a thousand billion. This was caused by a very inefficient and inefficient system of support from the Czech Republic, which led and, as set up, will still lead to a waste of funds collected from final consumers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, please be calm so that the Member is not disturbed by excessive noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u4	Thank you. The legal guarantors of setting up this system, and thus full responsibility for the result, fall on the Ministry of Industry and Trade and on the previous management of the Energy Regulatory Office. The SAO's conclusions clearly describe what actually signed up for today's state of affairs in the area of supported resources. It is a very bad regulation of the system of support for renewables in the Czech Republic. I'll take the slip here. We want to maintain very bad legislation here by rushing to adopt this law. The lack of legal mechanisms for flexible limitation of support in the event of excessive uncontrolled growth in production from renewable energy sources, which has also been done in our country, the catastrophic incoherence of the entities involved in the support system and the general system of implementation of the aid regardless of the costs associated with the support and suitability of the use of the resource in the conditions of the Czech Republic. [[9.20 hours]] According to the SAO, the failure to pay funds to support renewable energy sources is due to very poorly processed legislation, which, in its creation and subsequent amendments, did not very irresponsiblely and carelessly define the potential risks and impacts to the extra costs associated with this support system. The amendments to the proposed provisions in the Act on the promotion of renewable resources were adjusted exclusively for the benefit of producers instead of incorporating instruments for the possibility of flexible regulation of the production of renewable resources, respectively. increasing costs related to production. Likewise, the Decree, in particular Decree No.475/2005 Coll., made it possible to set operating aid at a significantly higher price level than the law itself envisaged. This suspicion was also confirmed by BDO's independent audit to determine the purchase prices for photovoltaic power plants. The accepted changes, rather than strategic concepts and action plans, influenced interest associations and the lobby of political leaders. We are afraid that this situation is still going on and is being attended by the same people whose consequences we have been dealing with so far. The SAO report also points out the incompetence of the aid, when action plans or strategies do not reflect the development of legislation and vice versa. On the one hand, the Czech Republic is talking about an increase in production from a certain type of OZ, on the other hand, it notes that without economic support development is not possible, while legislation restricts or stops aid. An equally substantial culprit is also a fatal failure in the coordination and cooperation of individual public authorities. A typical example is the totally incomprehensible payment of subsidies in the form of guarantees for photovoltaic power plant projects in 2009 to 2010, when it was already known that there would be a significant overcompensation of aid for these installations only by virtue of the overcompensation granted. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, which has been made clear and timely about the possibility of a solar boom and which was the first to take all measures to prevent or at least correct this systemic failure, behaved precisely the other way around and supported the solar boom when it provided additional non-operating support for 299 photovoltaic power plants in the total volume of over CZK 4.5 billion, as reported by the SAO report. Thanks to this completely irresponsible approach, 299 photovoltaic power plants were built, whose operating support, which is now paid by final customers, will cost us an estimated additional 30 billion crowns in 20 years. The failure to take account of the co-operation of investment and operating aid clearly contributed significantly to a very significant waste of public funds, thus enabling the producers to make unjustified profits. This is reported by the SAO. It is quite common that production from public funds will be paid by producers several times during the period of granting of the aid. There are no exceptions to the cases where production has already been paid for five years for the reasons set out above. A similar situation can also be observed at the moment when a significant amount of funding is allocated for investment subsidies to renewable sources without coordinated cooperation between the authorities providing support. Although the Energy Regulatory Authority's pricing decision takes account of the co-operation of investment and operating aid in a certain way, given the individual grant of an investment grant to a specific entity, on the one hand, and the flat-rate publication of operating aid on the basis of the reference model, on the other hand, it is not possible to clearly exclude a certain degree of overcompensation for the beneficiary. In connection with the adoption of Act No. 165/2012, which replaced the original Act No. 180/2005 Coll., a number of corrective measures took place under the new management of the Office in its competence in order to avoid the errors mentioned at the most in the future. I would like to welcome here the work of the Authority under new management for the fact that it has initiated the cessation of financial operating support for new renewable resources due to their unsustainable financing. A maximum limit has been established to support supported energy sources paid by final consumers. It determined the amount of the aid in full in accordance with the authorisation and diction of the law. It introduced a reduction in the amount of operating aid on the basis of the non-refundable investment subsidy received. It has prepared an audit to determine the purchase prices, the conclusions of which it has forwarded to the competent authorities and has introduced them to the general public. In the current amendment, it proposed measures to limit the effects of disproportionate aid and return on the ability to control justified aid, one of which was removed during the legislative process, and the other facing amendments that could make it completely useless and useless. Despite all the above-mentioned efforts of the ERÚ, the fact that the existing scheme of aid will be extremely burdensome to the economy of the state for many years remains the fact that there has not yet been a remedy within the framework of legislative changes, even though the ERÚ has consistently sought to do so by its proposals. The extension of an incorrectly set aid scheme based on the fact that the most efficient resources are not supported and that all factors are not taken into account will lead to further deterioration of the situation as a result. In the context of the proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act and the Act on Supported Energy Resources, it can be noted that the situation will deteriorate further, as further intervention does not result in the stabilisation of the environment and the establishment of equilibrium in the energy market, but rather vice versa, another period of difficult to predict. So many observations on the Supreme Audit Office's report and some conclusions on that. And while I'm here at the speaker's table, I'd like to respond to what was said here yesterday as an objection to the failure of the ERÚ. I have here a copy of the letter of 29 May 2013 sent by the Energy Regulatory Authority to the then Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies to Mr Ing. Milan Urban, where he draws attention to the current state of affairs. He gave the initiative to investigate whether a crime had been committed, which he informed both the Government of the Czech Republic and the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The events of 2013 are known what happened later in the summer, we know that. But this information, which has left the EROs, is certainly still available in the Economic Committee. [[9.30 hours]] The proposal for a solution is the submission of a constitutional complaint by an actively legitimized entity. The Energy Regulatory Authority does not have an active legitimacy to file a constitutional complaint. The subject matter of a constitutional complaint would be the proposal to repeal the current effective provisions of the Energy Regulatory Authority's price decision. I wonder if I can get an answer to that when both gentlemen involved are probably not listening to what I'm reading right now. I'd be happy to do it one more time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There are two factual ones, Mr Zemek, then Mr Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to react very much, but yesterday I saw various contributions to this topic on television, which I consider absolutely unheard of. And after I've heard a rather long elaborate here written about the harmfulness of photovoltaics and other things, I'd like to know where this government draft is talking about further support for photovoltaics. I didn't find it there. I guess I read the law wrong. But I guess we're talking about a whole other novel. Otherwise, for your information, my colleague, through the President, that nothing was done about the regulation of photovoltaics, that is nonsense. As I recall, in the last parliamentary term, for example, the withholding tax that compensates for this has been adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u7	Mr Holík, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the speeches of the petitioners, and I must say that I have not noticed anywhere what impact they will have on all of us, how this will be reflected in the price of energy. For this reason, I ask how we can adopt such a state regulation, which will have a major impact on the functioning of the entire economy of the Czech Republic, a fundamental influence on all of us, unless we can tell whether this proposal will benefit or harm us. So for this reason, I ask that two analyses be drawn up - one for the plaintiffs, the other for the analysis to be carried out by the opposition. And until these analyses are drawn up, I suggest we return this law to the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u9	Mr President, a factual point serves to enable the Member to respond to the debate. It is not possible to suggest anything during a factual remark. Thank you. Mr Fiedler has yet to make a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would briefly respond to the previous speaker, Mr Zemk, who said that there would be no further support for photovoltaic power plants. In this proposed amendment, it is said that large photovoltaic power plants will be able to be divided into smaller ones and thus the operators will have another financial bonus. I do not know how, through Mr President, you, my colleague, but I consider this to be further support, and another bonus to those who do so, who, at the expense of other citizens in society who pay high electricity prices, will receive yet another financial bonus. So that's how I see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u11	Thank you. Mr Zemek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u12	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond again. I do not know, my colleague, on the basis of your calculations, that the price of electricity will rise in this case. If I were to teach you something quickly, the price of electricity for the household consists of several components. There's a regulated file and a non-regulated file. The unregulated folder just controls the market, that's the power electricity. Then you have a regulated file in there. You've got that share of supported resources in there. And these aren't just photovoltaic power plants, we're talking about supported resources. So we also have a combined heat committee. If I have the last piece of information, that's where the share of the pie is going to be, like, 10 percent today. With regard to the regulated component that the regulatory authority can control, it accounts for about 55 percent of the pie, which is almost the most in Europe. I'm sure there's room for some shrinking here. It doesn't work so easily that when you reduce one ingredient of the pie, the price of the rest will automatically fall. It doesn't work that way, it's not that simple. The fact that you have some theory that there's going to be an increase here, I don't think so. Moreover, here you have a government tool called a national action plan that determines how much and what supported resources you can connect to the network. That's another instrument that's completely neglected. That's for your information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u13	Yes. One more point in fact by Mr Igor Nykl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u14	Good morning. Thank you for the floor. I would like to say to Mr Zemek through the President that I also watched TV at the Events yesterday. The readings that were falling were shocking to me. It was actually said how this energy law is related to the failed solar business. Some who performed there said that the people who prepared this terrifying solar business are now involved in the preparation of this energy law and that they are working on the Government's Legislative Council. Their name even came up. Even there, someone said he'd probably be prosecuted for it, named them. So there's a connection. It was made clear. I don't know these guys, but they were kind of weird talking about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u15	There is no further factual point. Mr. Lank, please. After that, Mrs Olga Havlová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u16	Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable Members, it has been talking a lot here lately about how it actually happened that the solar boom in the Czech Republic began, who caused it, who caused it and so on. I watched it rather intensely back then, although I confess that actually from the other side of the barricade as a journalist. I put it together a little bit to recapitulate, because it's obvious that you're interested, so I'm going to try to zoom in a little bit, because almost everyone has forgotten how easy it was at the time, how easily it happened that we pay a renewable resource fee of CZK 495 for every megawatt hour today, plus the state budget is over 15 billion. crowns, and please do this every year for 20 years. This means that the resulting account is 1 bel. CZK, i.e. a thousand billion. Let's talk about how it happened so we don't make the same mistakes again. In the beginning, Law No. 180/2005 Coll., on promoting the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, to which everyone or almost most today blames. Although this law was relatively poor, it also bears its guilt on the solar boom by the previous management of the Energy Regulatory Authority, which, of course, no one wanted to set up any supervisory board at the time. The independent audit by BDO, which you can read on the website of the regulator and which she entered after the launch of President Vitásková, came to some rather unfortunate conclusions. This poor law enabled the former management of the Energy Regulatory Authority to set prices very freely. Although it was the wording of Law No. 180/2005 Coll., on the promotion of the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, the annual possibility of the correction of purchase prices by the Energy Regulatory Authority limited, the regulator set the method of calculating the support for purchase prices even beyond what the law wanted. The Energy Regulatory Authority seems to have severely reduced the final level of the purchase prices of electricity from photovoltaic power plants, but no one checked it and no one shouted at the alarm at the time. Other errors of the Energy Regulatory Authority include the way in which it exercised its power to issue decrees. Pursuant to Section 4 of Decree 475/2005 Coll., which was actually set on the basis of the Renewable Sources Promotion Act, the purchase prices should have been set so as to enable investors to achieve a non-negative size of the net present value of the cash flow after taxation for the entire lifetime of the electricity generation using the discount rate at the level of the average weighted capital cost. Due to the application of this calculation method, instead of the legally required 15 years of the return period, the return period was reached at the level of 11 to 12 years. Let me simplify this a little bit: in other words, the owners of solar power plants returned their investment three years earlier than the law required thanks to our payments. [[9.40 hours]] Another decree number 150/2007 Coll., on the method of price regulation in energy sectors and procedures in price regulation, went even further. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 further stipulated that the purchase prices and green bonuses determined under the Act on the promotion of the use of renewable resources were applied throughout the estimated lifetime of the electricity generation. The Law required § 6 para. (b) the maintenance of the amount of revenues per unit of electricity from renewable sources in support of purchase prices for a period of 15 years from the year when the installation is listed as a minimum. The former management of the Energy Regulatory Authority took advantage of this and de facto set the period of payment of the aid for 20 years, which resulted in a significant increase in the attractiveness of investments in photovoltaic power plants in the Czech Republic. As BDO's audit further points out, there was actually a situation where such high payments were guaranteed that the investment had returned over 15 years in 12 years, but solar power plants would receive aid for the entire lifetime, i.e. 20 years. In fact, only two decrees of the Energy Regulatory Authority were sufficient to do so, which simply interpreted the law in their own way. According to the audit of the combination of systemic errors by the Energy Regulatory Authority and the individual misconduct of the responsible staff, the cause of the above errors is that of the above. Systemic errors consist of the failure to establish appropriate internal rules and the failure to establish sufficient administrative and control mechanisms where the senior staff of the Office are responsible for collective responsibility. According to the audit, there were also individual errors of workers in the process of setting the purchase prices of photovoltaic energy, but the police have always postponed the matter and failed to deliver. Moreover, the ways of regulating the purchase prices of 2007 and 2009 have never been sufficiently substantiated. The established technical and economic parameters have not always been selected taking into account the current conditions in the sector. Cases were also identified where parameters were used in the calculation contrary to the decree itself and calculations containing errors. There was no check-up. Nobody cared about it from the outside, because probably important politicians, business seemed to be quickly looking for panels and building solar parks, and there were no other internal directives or rules within the office besides the organizational order that would regulate the process of determining the purchase price of electricity from solar radiation. By the time it was five minutes past 12, the then president of the office suddenly remembered that the law needed to be roused and changed suddenly, but the amendment to the law had only concreted the situation and did nothing about the entire solar boom. And no one then requested any advice from the Energy Regulatory Authority or the possibility to control this office. This request only comes now that the situation has turned around. The new president of the Energy Regulatory Authority, Mrs Vitásková, ordered an audit, named a problem, pointed to the culprits and, under its leadership, the Authority has been reducing energy prices for Czech households and companies for several years in a row. And all of a sudden, we have a law coming in to paralyze her activity. Suddenly, an amendment to the law is coming, which according to the Authority has a number of risks that no one can calculate, and the President is almost forbidden to draw attention to the risks, on the contrary, he always answers that the board will be, because there is a political will to do so. And I ask why it is necessary to create control now that the office is in operation, and the Ministry and the ČSSD did not require control when the former administration made an axe of CZK 1,000 billion. Therefore, I will demand the elimination of errors from the law and the maintenance of the independence of the Energy Regulatory Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next one will be Mrs Havlová and Mr Andrle will be prepared. Excuse me, madam, before I give you my word, two apologies. Mrs Dobešová apologises within 10 hours of today's medical hearing, and Mr Soukup apologizes between 13 and 16 hours for working reasons. Sorry to interrupt, and please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, the trend of irresponsibleness in this Republic is growing, and therefore my fight for a watchdog, i.e. the current Energy Regulatory Office, is growing. I have decided to speak again in support of it, this time with my amendment, which would disturb the establishment of the so-called ERU Council. I would like to ask you to consider it regardless of political agreements, your personal preferences, regardless of what you have heard so far. Of course, my proposal will only be able to pass if a comprehensive amendment which includes this proposal of mine is not adopted, i.e. repealing the provisions of the Energy Regulatory Authority Council. I am a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region, and there you can fully see what high energy prices mean for ordinary people. It's a social problem we all know about. There are hundreds of thousands of households in the Czech Republic who receive housing contributions because they do not actually have money for electricity, gas or water. In my view, in the last 3.5 years, the Energy Regulatory Authority has shown that it can help consumers and that it will push down prices. The point is that it has also intervened in the field of renewables, that it has reduced regulated electricity and gas prices, that it has finally worked for customers, i.e. against large companies. ČSSD politicians have long promised the establishment of the Energy Regulatory Authority Board. They say it's a political decision that nobody should criticize because it's supposed to be a match. I certainly don't feel a political consensus here. The proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Trade workshop is so bad that it will mean a breakup of the office. This is a direct politicalization of the Office, when the Council members are selected by the Minister of Industry and approved by the Government, but above all, the Minister of Industry will be able to appeal anyone at any time on the basis of a violation. The council members are therefore at the mercy of the Minister of Industry. The President of the Republic has been expelled from the appointment and appeal process, and this is a clear signal that the Office is to be placed under the direct supervision of executive powers. To this day, the Ministry has not bothered to answer a number of questions related to the formation of the council. They say they're hysterical screams. But I am asking the Minister publicly. Does the chairman of the board just run the board? According to the amendment, he does not run an office that does not even run the board, because the board is only at the head of the office. This is a serious problem as to whether the Office actually has one statutory person responsible for the operation of the entire Office. Who will sign the implementing regulations? The decrees and pricing decisions must be signed by one particular person, but the amendment does not determine who it should be. In addition, the Board may vote on a price decision with which the responsible person will not agree. So does he have to sign and take responsibility for such a decision? What will be the decision in cases where the President of the Office has so far been responsible? For example, these are court proceedings with regulated entities, some decisions, second-instance proceedings and so on. What happens if the board does not agree, for example, to price decisions? The Council adopts proposals by a majority of three votes, but what if there aren't three votes for a proposal? Who will be responsible? What's gonna happen? Will the Minister propose to appeal everyone until the price decision is voted? What is the meaning of minor misconduct as a member of the board? Can a board member be called off if he doesn't follow instructions from the Ministry? Who will direct the daily work of the Energy Regulatory Authority, and what will be the relationship of advice to the Executive Authority? Who will approve and sign contracts, who will manage the daily work of the Office when the board meets once every two weeks? [[9.50 hours]] Another argument is the question of financial. The costs per board member are estimated at CZK 3 million per year, i.e. an increase in the ERU's budget. Do we need such expensive advice when, for example, the Board of the Czech Telecommunications Office is wearing several hundred thousand administrative lawsuits for delays? Will the ERU Board be better? About what and why? In my opinion, the President of the ERU Council is actually becoming Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, which is contrary to the European rules for the independence of the regulator. Moreover, qualification requirements for board members are reduced, i.e. now a regulatory authority, advice from anyone with higher education can lead. Moreover, this ill-conceived change in management will bring chaos just in the year when some 20 decrees are to be amended, which has the ERU in gesture, all price decisions of the ERU and mainly set parameters for a new regulatory period. There is a long-term instability for the whole sector with an impact on the energy security of the Czech Republic. The Minister has not yet convinced me that I should agree with the Council, only as part of the Committee's amendment, he has told me that my proposal for amendments to the Council is against the Service Act. I must say that in such a case, his entire council is contrary to the service law. That is why, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my amendment. And now I would urge all of you not to support this law, because I am not convinced that there is nothing hidden in the 350 amendments, as the Voltaic power plants have shown in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u19	Thank you, Madame. Next in the debate will be Mr Andrle. Mr Kádner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u20	Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Members, I have with me a Public Procurement magazine in which, in the last issue of 19, you will find an article in which the Supreme Audit Office notes that the promotion of green energy will - I quote - 'extremely burden the economy of the Czech Republic and that it will cost us one trillion crowns'. It's this article in this issue. [[He's showing the magazine.]] I'm sure it's not sucked out of your finger. We can all agree that the most vocal critic of the amendment to the Energy Act is President Vitásková and the Energy Regulatory Office. That's why I asked her to send me a summary of the reservations I had against the law. Mrs Vitásková has already presented something at the seminar here in the Chamber of Deputies, but I would like to quote this summary for his interest. I would still like to say to Mr Igor Nykl, Doctor, that I respect him very much and that I have given his advice yesterday that I have asked Mrs Vitásková for her opinion. And it's not my position. First of all, it does not matter how legislation is discussed. During the negotiations before the inter-ministerial review procedure, the Energy Regulatory Authority, as the central body of the state administration in the field of energy, applied more than 110 draft amendments to Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms of business and performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, an energy law that has not all been processed. On the contrary, the Ministry of Industry and Trade introduced several major modifications to the proposal, which would, as a result, paralyze the activities of the national regulator, prior to the start of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. In the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, more than a thousand comments from about 40 comment points were made on the amendment. In a number of cases, the comments were essential. Only the ERU applied 194 comments in the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, of which 75 are essential. Subsequently, there was a bilateral discussion of essential comments between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the ERU, where, following this meeting, the Ministry sent an ERO settlement table from this meeting, but without the text of the amended provisions. The full text of the Act was delivered to the ERU only the day before the referral of the proposal to the Legislative Council of the Government. In this case, too, several fundamental changes were introduced to the amendment, which the ERÚ was not given the right to respond to. The Ministry pointed out a total of 42 comments on the settlement of the draft amendment of the Act, 22 of which were identified as a contradiction with the non-acceptance of the comments of the ERU, 16 of the essential comments of the new ERU applied to the new text and in four cases the ERU pointed out the confusion of the text of the law. Although the settlement of comments has not been completed, the material has been discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government, but largely with the participation of only a minimum of its members. Despite considerable contradictions with the declaration of failure by members of the Legislative Council of the Government, the material was recommended for discussion by the Government without further discussion in the Legislative Council of the Government. In the final opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, only one contradiction of the ERO was mentioned, and this was also wrong. The comments of the regulator were settled and, in view of the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, the possible contradictions could not be discussed by the Government of the Czech Republic. The material was thus approved by the government despite the shortcomings of the legislative text and its justification. Secondly, there is insufficient quantification of the effects of the amendment by the petitioner. The ERÚ reiterates its reservations on the final report on the impact assessment of regulation in terms of the amendment to the Energy Act, in particular the lack of quantification of the impact of the proposed changes. In the final report of the RIA on the amendment to the Energy Act, a cost-benefit assessment is carried out in Chapter III of the ERO's assessment of costs, in particular in relation to the Authority's new competences. However, there is no impact assessment in any part of the RIA final report, respectively. costs related to the new obligations of regulated entities. For example, the obligation to register demand points and transfer points, obligations in relation to new contract arrangements, etc. Unfortunately, this lack of impact assessment is crucial for the ERU due to its price regulation obligations arising from the provisions of § 19a, in particular due to the obligation to take account of the costs of regulated entities, which are undoubtedly due to the newly proposed obligations, will enter into prices and thus their potential impact on final energy prices for customers. The ERU is obliged to protect the legitimate interests of customers and consumers in the energy sectors, and these are, of course, mainly impacts on customers in the form of energy prices. Therefore, the processing and timely presentation of the consequences of quantification of the effects of the amendment is so important. 458/2000 Coll. so that it can be predicted how the proposed changes will have an impact on price regulation and energy prices for the final consumer. [[10.00 hours]] In addition, the Authority is concerned about a number of specific provisions, but my colleagues will certainly comment on them - and they will, without a doubt, make amendments to them. However, I considered it useful to explain what the ERO does in general, and I believe that the arguments have their weight. At the end of my speech, allow me to mention that I am Mrs. Ing. Alena Vitásková proposed the award of František Kriegl, which is awarded annually for extraordinary merit in the fight for human rights and civil liberties, national independence, sovereignty and democracy. [[The noise in the hall.]] I just remind you that Mrs. Vitásková was not afraid to uncover the essence of the solar tunnel and that she was not afraid to uncover the billion-dollar scams with the connection of biometal stations to the network. This heroic behavior, which defended the interests of the Czech Republic, brought her repeated threats, which resulted in up to two attempted murders. Despite the effort to liquidate and the need for personal protection, Mrs Vitásková is not afraid, which proves that she does not intend to give up the leadership of the EROs. Ironically, the work of a broad conspiracy today is the one against which court proceedings are conducted as part of an attempt to discredit it. I think this woman would be a dignified recipient of the František Kriegl Award. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u21	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Kádner, however much tolerance I am alone, I draw attention to all those discussing § 59 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, i.e. The Member shall speak to the present case. If it departs from it or exceeds a specified speaking time, the President may draw the attention of the Member and call him to the point. I am trying to be tolerant, but I really think we should bear in mind what is written in the Rules of Procedure when we are trying to argue here. If that's the point, of course I don't have a problem with it. But I feel that some performances - especially the end of Mr Andrle's performances - have already been a little outside the Rules of Procedure adjusted the content of the performances. Mr Kádner has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u22	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the laws adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic should be approved only after a thorough discussion and presentation of all the arguments. We are now discussing an amendment to the Energy Act. Citizens should know that when it comes to energy, it is always about big money and big emotions. Strong lobbyist pressures from various interest groups enter the game. Those who are active in the energy sector, as well as many others, logically defend their interests. Then there are citizens who are mostly in the position of waiting for the outcome. In the worst case scenario, then in the position of hostages of individual political or business players. Another beautiful example is other laws that clearly affect energy, e.g. the upper law, which includes, among other things, an increase in the fee from the acquired minerals. You'll probably remember what's already happened around this law. The amendment to the Mining Act was only in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, and it was not approved by the government far from being approved, let alone addressed by Parliament, but the increase in revenues from brown coal was already foreseen in the draft budget for 2015. Originally, the authors of the amendment said they were counting on a clear calculation of the increase in coal fees to regions, i.e. that they would be done so-called. evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation. But the law is being prepared in such a hurry that the government has completely ignored this commitment - and in other words, it all comes out quickly, on its knees and without a clear quantification of the impact. We can only argue whether it is the result of chance, incompetence, or purpose. Another example is the long-lasting battle of so-called. Breaking the coal mining limit. The decision to cancel or postpone limits has been postponed for years, even if the miners -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u23	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but this is exactly the case. We are discussing the energy law, not the upper law. Please, cut to the chase. So I'm formally leading you to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u24	[[After a while.]] Well, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u25	Mr. Ambassador, if you need to sort out your thoughts, there is a request for a performance with priority rights, so I will allow Mrs. Mrs. Černochová to speak, and then you will return to the speaker's desk if you agree to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u27	Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that we be as lenient as we are in other cases. If tax packages were discussed here and your party colleague, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, quoted here an unnamed poet, no one called her to the point either. And I think that although the contribution made here by my colleague Kádner was majorly related to the mining law, it is, of course, to the energy law. As did his previous speaker, who also spoke on the subject of the regulatory authority. I think we've always been in this lenient position, whether we're in position or whether we're in opposition. And I would like to ask that nothing changes in this way of evaluation even at this time when you are in the coalition. It would be a shame that some of the relationships that are between us will be disrupted here. Even if some performances do, they can raise eyebrows, so we've always held on to the fact that these people have the right to give their opinion here. And if anyone here isn't talking about Georgia or something about foreign policy in terms of energy law, but they're still sticking within the limits of the standard to what might be related to it, then I'm asking that we tolerate it and that we don't make it impossible for our colleagues here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u29	Madam, I think you can blame me for a lot of things, but certainly not being tolerant. I have pointed out several times that I will give room and we will not try to limit our colleagues. But if a colleague is obviously talking about a law other than what we are discussing, I thought that this would meet the requirements of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I take your point. I do not suppose that I would further restrict my fellow Members, but in this case I felt that this really is an example of the time when, in the relevant section of the Rules of Procedure, this right of the President is. I will, of course, allow my colleague Kádner to perform. I was merely trying to point out that his speech, in my view, is clearly not in the present law. A colleague of Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u30	So, ladies and gentlemen, I must show a little admiration to the President of the House of Hamáček, that he has foresightedly suspected after a few sentences whether or not my colleague David Kádner's speech is pointless. In my opinion, the mining law, it concerns energy, and it is very fundamental, and it is a subject, and at the next stage, of course, my colleague Kádner - it has had its reasons for talking about this and then, of course, from this broader framework, it has focused on the energy law. We are really a little overwhelmed by this approach, which is why the Úsvit movement must take a 20-minute break at the beginning at the moment in order to discuss what this is actually meant by this procedure, because in our view we are expressing our position on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u31	Yes, of course you have the right. I, of course, will allow Mr Kádner to speak and finish his speech, as he most certainly intended, for the energy law. We'll continue at 10:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 10:30 a.m. and we will continue our negotiations. I ask you to take your seats, and I will ask for Mr. Kádner's microphone. - I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I've still got the facts. If you last two minutes, I'll ask Mr Böhnisch. [[From the left note to the name, it was pronounced correctly.]] I said Böhnische! Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u33	It doesn't matter, Madam Vice-President. I volunteered before the break. I wanted to respond to the words of my colleague Černochová. Look, I have complete sympathy for the performance of my colleagues at Dawn. I understand that when they prepared the speeches, they just want to read them when they wrote them at home - unless someone else wrote them somewhere else. But I was impressed by the words about tolerance, the tolerance of the ODS at the time it led the Chamber of Deputies. If we were to copy the excellent ODS tolerance, we had already voted on reducing the deadline for the speaker to 10 minutes. This was the tolerance of the ODS during the debates at the time, when, for example, a colleague named Bohdalová did not quote an unnamed poet, but quoted Chalíl Džibrán. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u34	Thank you, and I am now asking for a microphone from Mr Kádner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u35	Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Černochová for her performance, but now I will follow up on the previous speaker of the colleague. I remember from the past period when you guys were bouncing around, we were somehow helping you out here, that you guys were copying these speeches in the hallway so you could have as many of them as possible, and you weren't able to put your own words there in any way. And I think because we're only one club at this, we've quite honestly prepared it. I think - and frankly, we're saying that maybe we've extended this to do and say all the details, and I still think that just one sentence-- the fact that I wasn't allowed to read the whole thing, so it would have been wrong for you that it was about the energy law, that everything I actually wanted to read here, that it has it, and that it's one package, that in two in three months, we're all going to meet here exactly on these laws that we're going to approve or talk about after we have some kind of energy law here, and we don't know how they're going to follow up on the next, which they're going to come here. So I think it's just the one - I don't know how to say it properly - the mess in the Chamber of Deputies, what's going on here in some way. I'll read you another speech from another keg. I had two ready. Thanks to the fact that that one was supposed to be about the county, what might have affected the Ústí Region in some way, and I think it's caught in the energy sector. It's gonna be a little bit security in here. Energy security is one of the most tilted links in the context of the conflict in Ukraine. This Monday the South Stream pipeline project has been definitively halted, the construction of the North-South STORK II-Moravia pipeline is delayed, because our monopoly carrier NET4GAS has problems covering its financing either from the funds of Czech and Polish consumers or the EU, but mainly because of the amount of its own debt. In the field of electricity, we have to deal with the threat of blackout in Germany and a number of other problems linked mainly to the massive emergence of renewables, which can now almost anywhere very cheaply take place. From an ecology point of view, they are absolutely necessary, but our infrastructure is not well prepared for them. The entire energy sector is mainly calling for stability, but the Ministry of Industry and Trade has been preparing the fifth amendment in the last five years. The legislative package we are deciding today was supposed to be a big, all-embracing amendment on which politicians and all market participants agree. But the law has great flaws. Even the government doesn't consider it to be a good quality, because it immediately commissioned Minister Mládek to make a novel. In a situation where regulation and control of the single energy market are to be introduced REMIT and where trades at 700 billion are to be controlled at a European level. EUR per year, I consider the negotiation of a law which is of high quality to be a huge security risk. If we don't let the law go on, nothing terrible will happen. The European regulation will continue to apply and the government has ordered the Ministry of Industry and Trade to prepare a new law. I hope it's a good one now. So, in some six months, we could work on the wording of the law that would be acceptable and sufficiently professional and quality. This law causes a legislatively unstable energy environment, which is a clear safety risk. There is another amendment to the amendment, this law is confusing, no one knows it; the Energy Regulatory Authority has already been forced to extend the gas regulatory period by one year in order to ensure a stable predictable environment in order to protect the rights of market participants. I feel that, regardless of the arguments of a group that is exerting great pressure on the speedy adoption of the law without due consideration, as evidenced by, for example, the total lack of discussion in the second reading committees. However, the most serious problem is that there is no estimate of the financial impact on prices for the final customer or on the costs of regulated entities. No one convinced me that, following the legislative crisis of Minister Mládek and Member Urban, the presentation of a law with thousands of comments and the submission of an additional 289 proposals from the Economic Committee, there would be no threat of an increase in electricity, gas and heat prices by 20 or more percent. Where do I see other costs? The obligation for regulated entities to compensate the owners of the land on which the energy facilities are located remains unresolved. There is therefore a need to register material burdens or to address financial compensation, or to conduct power lines and pipelines elsewhere. The proposal launched a transitional provision and the obligation to book-keeping does not solve the problem later. The estimated impact in gas is up to 20 billion. CZK, the power plant has not been calculated, but the amount can be higher. Only ČEPS estimates its costs at 3 to 4 billion. Crowns. Apart from direct costs and price impacts, this will prevent investment in Czech infrastructure and international projects. Another example is the change in payment to renewable resources. In the event of a change in the POZE fee from consumption to payment for a breaker, there is a risk that a number of consumers will reduce the size of their circuit breaker and the revenue outage will have to be paid from the state budget. Once again, these are billions of crowns per year. Costs will also bring changes in terminology and the necessary change of millions of contracts. Apart from confusion for all consumers, this will bring great costs for regulated entities that will be reflected in prices. There is a risk of a large number of lawsuits and other disputes. [[10.40 hours]] The next cost will be the non-ceiling of the maximum supported amount of energy from renewable sources in the future. There is a threat of instability due to possible overcompensation, which is the expected result of the notification of the European Union, and there is a risk of unnecessary payment of additional billions of crowns. A lot of money will also be spent by the ERU Council. The costs per board member are estimated at 3.2 million. CZK annually, i.e. it will be an increase in the ERU budget by 10 % each year. The Ministry is counting on other additional costs. The ERÚ pointed out to us in a letter that the amendments of the Economic Committee, the Committee on Budgets, will allow for the purpose of dividing solar power plants in particular into smaller entities, while continuing to draw full support, but avoiding the payment of the so-called solar levy. The state budget only on this item can lose up to 2 billion. CZK annually, which represents about 35 billion throughout the duration of the aid. Crowns. I still consider it a great risk of material burdens that are not actually solved and that would mean an increase in prices of up to 20 per cent in gas prices, permanently. Another blow to the price of gas is the reduction of the ERO's power so that it will not be able to intervene in time and properly against the threat of NET4GAS failure. The last nail in the gas coffin will be the ERÚ Council, which may not be as tough next time as the current management of the office and can allow us all of our pockets to pay large investments in gas pipelines at gas prices. Then no one will be surprised that consumers will disconnect and drown PET bottles. That's all I need to do is protest this law. Thank you all for your attention. In conclusion, I would just say that both of these speeches - so that people can compare whether they are energy concepts - can be found on my website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u36	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone with Mr Urban's priority right. Mr. Černoch will be ready for him. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Before you start talking, please colleagues on the left side to keep their voice down and if they have anything to say to themselves to do so in the lobby. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u37	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I think it is time for us to say something gradually after the speeches that have been made here. I'll start with a little lightening. Indeed, Minister Mládek does not run the Department of Labour and Trade, as a colleague from the Úsvit movement said. And then another colleague here, when he was talking about other laws unrelated to the one we're discussing, said the mining law several times. Take a look at the log. There is no such law. I want to demonstrate on this how the quality of the material view and the content of the individual speeches may seem when there is no elementary knowledge of individual ministries. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I'll tell you what's really going on here, and I'm sorry. This is about fighting two state institutions, and you know it, as I know it. The ERU is subject to the Ministry of Industry and Trade in terms of methodical terms. What's happening here is, in a way, outrageous what you're trying to cover up for some kind of independence. Is it independence when the head of a subordinate institution - by the way, I'm sorry, the accused boss - is standing at your independent press conference of the Dawn movement? Do you consider this independence and the common future of this institution? Well, God forbid, we have something to look forward to in terms of the independence and expertise of the Energy Regulatory Authority. Everything you read here, so who knows a little bit, he knows it's just written by an insolent spokesperson for the Energy Regulatory Authority, wearing it to you and trying to teach you. Anyway. So let's set some things straight. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has the full support of the so-called tripartite. If you don't know what it is, I'll tell you. This is an association that brings together employers of the Czech Republic, because the law is advantageous for industry. Industry of the Czech Republic is crucial for the wealth of the country, but it is also crucial for employment, for increasing the social incomes of citizens in the Czech Republic. Industry feeds this nation and its share of gross domestic product is far higher than the average in the European Union. The proposal says that industry in some sectors would be able to pay a little less thanks to the circuit breaker method and thus deal with its competition. Renewable resources in Germany, my friends, do not pay industry. That's what the citizens pay. This law says - industry can pay a little less and citizens will not get expensive. As you are constantly threatening some price increases, thousands of percent, etc., you can do that, of course, I'm not stopping you from discussing it, but it's absolute nonsense. Well, you know who you read that law said that the charges for renewables are up to CZK 495 per megawatt hour. So someone's gonna pay less, thank God, and they're gonna keep more people busy, and no one's gonna pay more. This law also proposes much greater powers for consumers, for households, for citizens who can behave a little more confidently. This law implements some sensible things of the European Union. It is therefore also supported by trade unions within the framework of tripartite. Pretty loud. It's an extraordinary match. It is not often for a law that you consider bad to support trade unions and employers to support them at the same time. So what's the key? What's the fight about? What's the dispute with the state institutions? Well, of course, about the advice. But why, if the proposal says that the board should have those powers from mid-2017, at the end of the current chief's term of office? Why? Why is there such a war for advice? I don't understand. I don't understand. It's a standard mechanism. Go to an internship at the Czech Telecommunications Office and there you will learn the answers to all your questions. Or drive to any advanced country in the European Union where it normally works. There's nothing out of the ordinary about that. Unfortunately, the whole thing that we have to experience here and we're probably going to be living with you for a few more days is the so-called independence struggle, the advice that's due in mid-2017. Is that what you want to serve and serve? Have more press conferences where you'll have more people from the EROs and you'll say, we're trying and we're fighting for independence here. But who's gonna believe it? So let me commend one of your Members, Mr Andrle, at the end of this first speech - I am sure there will be more of them today, because I will have to respond to your friendly words - because he said transparently here, "I did not prepare it, I will read the opinion of the Energy Regulatory Office here." I'll take it, and I appreciate it. The others have the same background, they just didn't say it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u38	Thank you. I'll ask my colleague, Černoch, to endure. Before that, there are four factual points. With Mr Fiedler's microphone first, Mr Holík will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u39	Thank you for the floor. I would just briefly respond to the previous speaker, Mr Urban's rapporteur. Here I was interested in the sentence that the law supports some sensible proposals. So we're supposed to see the others as being the unreasonable ones? Or how were we supposed to understand that sentence? But that's just to the edge. It was mentioned here that the law, according to the statement, I will not contradict it, I have not been to tripartite, but I suppose it does, that it has the support of tripartite. But we held a seminar on Monday, which was therefore attended by Deputy Minister Šolc, yes, that is true, and there was also a public opinion presented by STEM as regards these things, how he perceives these things, how he perceives possible risks. And I don't represent tripartite, I represent the public, you voter. It's just a quick statement as to why we're here in this House. If it is said that the citizens will pay the maximum what they have paid so far, but there is a real risk that the payments to the operators will be higher, so it will come from the state budget. So it's such a camouflage that it won't cost citizens any more. Then they get less service from the state budget when there's an estimated 35 billion there. We'll give the operators the benefit of allowing them to split up the power plants and make it more tax-effective for them. That's half the truth. Half the truth is a lie!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u40	Thank you and please to Mr. Holík's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u41	Madam President, my dear government, my fellow Members, once again a good day. I will now respond here to Mr Urban's words, which I otherwise appreciate very much. I'm from Hané. From Zlín district, where Hana is, the most fertile part of the Czech Republic. This Hana is splattered with photovoltaic plates and where there is a vacancy, there is instead of diabetes and grain grown rape. So what came out here, this huge photovoltaic boom, I'm terrified that this energy bill is gonna be his sequel. I admit, if I pay for a kilowatt hour as a consumer, that's fine. But if that part is for the size of the circuit breaker, I'm not even interested in saving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u42	Thank you and I will ask another de facto Mr Běhounek. Mr rapporteur, you must wait, you are the fourth in line with the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u43	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues and Colleagues, I am listening quite carefully here. I ask you, do you know where the seat of the Energy Regulatory Authority is? In Jihlava. Go see what's left of it. And go see Ostrava. And look at the number of amendments when the Energy Regulatory Authority, whenever the law was opened, moved to Ostrava. If that's what you believe, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u44	Thank you, and with another factual request from Mr Gabal, Mr Kádner will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u45	Thank you. Hello, Madam President, Government, Members of Parliament. I didn't really want to talk, but just let me give you a brief piece of information. As a man who has been feeding on data for years, calculating things, analyzing things, etc., after I, like all of you, received a letter to the mailbox from the Chair of the Regulatory Authority, I asked her to submit to me a calculation of her estimated extreme amounts of costs for the whole thing. I have to say, the answer was they don't have the calculation. When I was watching the office spokesperson on TV last night, I realized that this guy was throwing ciphers and he didn't have a calculation. I told my colleague Adam that he was lucky that the editor of Czech Television didn't ask him where he got the numbers and how he got them. So I would ask very much, either we're going to scare the citizens of astronomical sums here, or someone here is going to do the calculation so that anyone else, third, fourth, and probably gets the same result. I, Madam Secretary or Minister of Finance or anyone from the opposition. And if this calculation is not presented by Mrs Vitásková, I would say that it is necessary to define the amounts used to her as fiction and intimidation to the public, and I am saying this with all the responsibility of the person who asked the regulatory authority quietly first to provide me with the evidence of what they are doing. The answer was - we don't have data. [[Your time.]] Then what in God's name are they coming out of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u46	Thank you. Mr Kádner's microphone, Mr Urban and Mr Fiedler will be prepared after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u47	Madam President, by your means to my colleague Urban. You can see what you've noticed, the misfortunes that my colleague and I have done here in some way. But you're not even listening to what our whole debate is about. You're dropping any laws on all of us opposition Members because they're made on their knees because they're not done the way they should be, and you're not letting us read them into the second reading so they can be redesigned in some way. And this is where the government proposal comes in, I think one of the most important laws, and you want us to agree on it here, redesign it, de facto according to your words on the knee. That means the Minister didn't actually stand up for it when I brought something up. He wants to blame his responsibility on the Chamber of Deputies. But don't be mad at me, even if there were a hundred of them, those amendments, I don't think it should be here. If there are so many amendments, then the Ministry should take it under control, it should redo the whole thing and send here one clear law that everyone knows, and we don't have to talk about this debate anymore. And it's not about any advice or anything else that can be found there. It is strictly about the fact that there are a lot of amendments, no one knows about it, and no one knows - no one knows - what is hidden in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u48	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Urban's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u49	Thank you. Just so we're clear, I don't mind you guys coming out here and saying your thoughts. That's what the Chamber of Deputies is for. But you don't mind if we react to your opinions in some way. Let's be fair about this. I think you're wrong about a lot of things. You can argue about it for an incredibly long time after each performance. In any case, the amendments to the Economic Committee are not 350, 200, or 230, as similar figures have been mentioned here. There's a lot less of them. And once again, especially for you, that the economic committee discussed the whole standard carefully and accepted only the amendments that were also supported, dealt with the opinion, yes, the Ministry of Industry and Trade. All theories on how much this will increase the price, etc., I consider it quite justified that this is strictly an alarm report, but you will probably continue to do so. The only thing I actually signed up for is different. I also appreciate Mr Holík, and believe me, I also feel sad to see gigantic photovoltaic power plants on fertile soil. It makes me want to throw up like you do. [[11.00 hours]] But I'm not the one supporting it, even though you're trying to create it here in some illusion. On the contrary, I am the one who, as one of the few, fought to prove who the owners of photovoltaic power plants were, the solar barons, which has succeeded. So tell the truth. This law does not propose anything in terms of the expansion of solar power plants except that it says who will want to put solariums on the roof of their family house, so it can do much better, faster and more administratively simple than now. [[Attention on time.]] Now they have to run around a lot of institutions and get licenses under this law. He won't have to. He won't even have to ask if they can hook him up. So these are the particular things that are in favor of. [[again alerted to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u50	Ambassador, your two minutes are up. I beg you to keep that time limit to a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u51	Thank you. I'm done. Take some tolerance for being the rapporteur. Next time, I'm gonna sign up with priority rights and I'm gonna talk longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u52	I'm sorry, but the factual point is defined by two minutes. Thank you. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u53	I have an understanding of Mr Urban's words, he's the rapporteur, and I don't have a problem with him overreacting to a point of fact. At the same time, however, I would like to say to the rapporteur that it is a pity that he did not come to those seminars that we held, where we could already presume these things, we could have made a number of things clear to ourselves that we are therefore dealing with this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I repeat, there was Deputy Minister Šolc, but Mr fellow Member Urban did not come, so it is regrettable that he did not use this option to refute our arguments. He didn't use it. I wanted to respond to Mr Gabal's previous speaker, but I can see that he is not at the moment. Sorry, he's here. Through Madam President, Mr President, your arguments, I understand, understand and agree with them. But you probably didn't hear what was said at those seminars that I was just talking about, by the representatives of the EROs. That they calculated some values they could count, and those they couldn't count, they couldn't number. That's what it said. You're shaking your head, but I've been to those seminars, you haven't, so I don't know why you're shaking your head. [[There are objections from the diaper.]] And if that's -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u54	I will ask the honourable Member not to shout from the diaper, he has the opportunity to use the factual point of view. Thank you. Please. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u55	And if you're saying the numbers aren't calculated, if I'm to understand it that way, then why is the government submitting this proposal? Isn't that really a calculation? Are we really going to go on this adventure that we've already had with the solarium once? It ends with a point of fact, so another one in a proper performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u56	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Černoch's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u57	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. I would also like to say that I respect my colleague Urban. We never said we were fighting the law as such, that there was no need for that law. The novel needs to be, but we're saying that the law is so messy at the moment that things are getting out of it, things are adding up. No one really can tell for sure what the calculations are, what the calculations are. You mentioned here that a couple of Members are going to say something, and throw it in that direction, I think that's just the distraction. This isn't about us attacking you personally or anyone, it's about the novel itself, because it's just that the novel is absolutely inconspicuous at the moment. In addition, it has been said several times that the President of the ERU, Mrs Vitásková, is being prosecuted for joining us at the press conference, that we have married her, that any independence falls here. First of all, if I may, Mr Urban, through Madam Vice-President: why didn't you come to the seminar, one of the three that took place, disprove the information there, or tell them? There was Deputy Minister Šolc, otherwise no one from the petitioners. So at this point, let's do this in a way that gives Mrs. Vitásková the opportunity to speak here in the House and answer the questions. [[Prosecutions from the diaper.]] Why is that not possible? Someone's always picking on her. She's being attacked for coming with us to the press conference, so let her have the opportunity to argue and the fact that the data just don't exist, so let her have the opportunity to answer it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u58	Thank you. With Mr Adam, the de facto Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u59	Thank you. I appreciate that nobody here wants to be personal, but there's no other way. What we did. We, the opposition Members, in Parliament, in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, have taken the liberty of addressing the energy market regulator, the state authority, to confirm or refute some of our concerns about the energy law. We have taken the liberty of contacting the Czech State Office! I'm sorry. None of us wanted to be personal, but none of us went to Tuscany on vacation with the director of ČEZ and someone like that. Oh, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u60	Thank you and please with the de facto Minister Mládek. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u61	I've only been very brief. It's perfectly okay that the Dawn movement took a seminar on the energy law. This is undoubtedly commendable, but it would be far better if the same activity were to be expressed at the meeting of the Economic Committee, which is the place where it is to be discussed with the participation of all members, or other experts, of Members. There's this place and there's supposed to be a discussion, not at one specialized seminar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u62	Thank you and please the factual rapporteur, Mr Urban. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u63	Certainly, what Mr Adam here said was essential to discussing the law. But to make sure he's right, I have to say it here. I'm bohužel so. Mr. Vice-President, this has not happened. And if you say that publicly, I'm gonna have to ask the mandate and immune committee to prove it, because that's a thing that's hurting me, or maybe we're gonna be looking for some kind of manly solution without the possibility of using the President that I wouldn't like to involve. But please don't do this because you're very wrong!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u64	Thank you for keeping the time limit. And now, please, a proper application for Mr Štětina's debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u65	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, before I proceed to my report or speech, allow me a few words in advance. I thought I was gonna be a little upset, but I'm not gonna be, 'cause it's not worth it. But I don't feel comfortable, I would say, insulting me when someone generally calls me that someone's making speeches to me. I've been able to make presentations and speeches in my life, so please don't say that again. Whoever writes it to me, I'm the one who's teaching it, but I think I can still do it. The second thing that has to do with my old age, and it has to do with so-called. obstructions. I don't consider it obstruction today. Obstruction is different. If you want, I'd be happy to remind you. When religious restitutions were discussed, but especially medical laws, which are basically non-political, it was awkward. There were night shifts here. So this isn't obstruction. This is a democratic exchange of views, which certainly belongs to this House. [[11.10 hours]] Another thing that I do not like at all on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies is the fact that if someone is accused, he is not condemned and we look at him as a man of integrity. When he's convicted, then we'll talk about it, and then we'll take some conclusions. The last thing I want to say before I read the speech. My speech is not payable to anyone, nor to Mrs. Vitásková or anyone else. It is my conviction based on my knowledge, which I have from a completely different committee, the Committee of Auditors, which means the Supreme Audit Office's audit reports. So I'm not sent by anyone. I wouldn't let you. I've never done it before, even under the previous regime. Now, get to the point. Of course, there can be no other way but to start again by reminding the solar boom. We all know what happened, but no one's applying for it today. Who's to blame? Who did this? Whether Parliament, Government or Energy Regulatory Authority? It is really the only fact that this past time fun cost us 157 billion by 2014. We pay 15 billion a year. And by 2030, in the next 20 years, it will cost us 1 beat. Crowns. And that's why I'm going against it here. I don't want to, when I'm done in this House, and I'm sure it will be with the end of this House, that means the seventh term, then I won't be here, but I want to have a clear conscience so I can say that I didn't vote for what our children and our grandchildren will pay for. I am based on the audit conclusion of the SAO 1406, which was intended to examine the provision of funds to support the production of energy from renewable sources, including an assessment of the results achieved in comparison - and now pay attention - with the stated objectives and resources used. So there are real concerns. This audit conclusion points to several essential facts. The Czech Republic increased its share of electricity production, first of all, by an extreme increase in costs associated with its support and secondly by a very inefficient and inefficient complex system of support from the Czech Republic. So let's say how this happened so that we don't repeat the same mistakes again. Yesterday we heard here, I don't want to touch anyone that it wasn't the law, but it was the law. In the beginning, Law No. 180/2005 Coll., on promoting the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, to which everyone today blames. Although this law was quite low-quality, today experts would call it a legislative scumbag, but the main blame on the solar boom is the former leadership - and now I say ex-boyfriends, be very careful not to pin anything on the current President - the leadership of the Energy Regulatory Office. And it is interesting that at that time the House and the Ministry of Trade did not want to set up advice to correct these matters, which were laid down by law. The legal guarantors of setting up this system and therefore full responsibility for the result of this trillion-dollar tunnel falls on the then Ministry of Industry and Trade and then the management of the ERU represented by the President and Vice-President of this state institution. The poor law enabled the former management of the Energy Regulatory Authority to set prices very freely. However, it was precisely the wording of Law No. 180 on the promotion of electricity generation from OZ provided for the possibility of correcting output prices by EROs, so the regulator set the method of calculating the support for purchase prices even beyond what the law wanted. The Energy Regulatory Authority seems to have severely reduced the final level of the purchase prices of electricity from photovoltaic power plants, but no one checked it and no one was shouting at the alarm at the time. Now let's ask ourselves a question. Can we agree with the SAO's conclusion? Of course I do. Because the reason for the ineffectiveness of the payment of funds to support the OZ is: 1. very poorly prepared legislation, including implementing legislation, which, in its creation and subsequent amendments, did not very irresponsiblely and frivolously define possible risks and impacts on the extra costs associated with this support system. 2. The amendments to the proposed provisions in the Act on the promotion of renewable resources have been adjusted exclusively for the benefit of producers instead of incorporating instruments for the possibility of flexible regulation of the production of renewable resources or increasing costs associated with production; 3. So are the decrees, one of which is No. 475/2005, by its very extensive interpretation of the law that exceeded the legal authorisation, allowed the setting of operating aid at a significantly higher price level than the law itself envisaged. 4. The accepted changes, rather than strategic concepts and action plans, influenced interest associations and the lobby of political leaders. I am afraid that this situation is continuing at present, and it can also be attended by those who prepared this legislation in 2005. Now let me take a different turn. This is therefore price control, which, of course, is first for the government and, of course, for the inspection committee. The monitoring committee discussed this report on price controls as early as September 2014. Today we have half of March, and even though we are on the agenda for at least the fifth time, we have not talked about price controls to this day. So I would ask very much that this report, which I believe is significant enough, because it is not an ERO inspection report, but a CTU and a financial office and so on, all institutions which are legally required by this Act No. 265/1991 Coll. to carry out reports and checks. So now let me mention something about the controls carried out by the Energy Regulatory Authority. As a price control body, this office exercises control of energy prices pursuant to the Price Act, as I mentioned, in accordance with the law I quoted here, No. 265/1991 Coll., in the field of prices, but also in accordance with Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms of business and performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, that is, the law that we are discussing today. When checking compliance with price rules, staff shall check compliance with the ERU Price and Price Decisions Act effective for the calendar year audited concerned. A significant part of the volume of work was focused on investigating the resulting heat energy prices, when it was a review of compliance with the rules governing the material regulation of heat energy prices according to the relevant price decision. The Energy Regulatory Authority carried out a total of 56 checks in 2013 and 20 cases found to be in breach of price rules, fines of 20 million were imposed. 122,000, but only a million were paid out of it. Here, let me take a little turn before I report on the price controls. But we are not really able to collect fines and, of course, when it comes to owners of large photovoltaic power plants, it is worth paying even a two-million-dollar financial penalty to make a fundamental change. Thus, the subject of the checks was to account for the resulting price of thermal energy on the basis of Section 14 of the Price Act, whether the controlled person in the given price location is in breach of price rules. The purpose of the other inspection was to verify whether the controlled person provides information to the consumer on the supply and sale of associated electricity and gas services pursuant to Section 14 of this Act in order to be able to familiarise himself with the price before the contract was negotiated within the meaning of Section 13. It may seem distant to you. But there was a lot of discussion about how it would actually be with energy consumers in connection with the new law. [[11.20 hours]] We have another supervisory authority here, which means the checks carried out by the State Energy Inspection. Out of the total, 329 checks were carried out in 2013 and in 34 cases administrative proceedings were conducted and a decision was subsequently issued imposing a fine. A total of CZK 2,000 113 was deposited, paid CZK 1,800,000. As regards the factual focus of the checks in respect of compliance with the Control Act, checks were carried out in 2013 on the combined production of electricity and heat, checks on the production of electricity from secondary sources and checks on electricity from renewable sources, back to three years after the date on which the price rules were infringed. The controls of the supported resources were focused in particular on photovoltaic and wind power plants, biogas stations, sewage treatment plants and small hydropower plants. The price control activity of the State Energy Inspection under the Price Act was focused on checking compliance with the ERU's pricing decisions. I say it on purpose again because the ERÚ is still being criticized here. The ERU is, of course, an office that has a major influence on pricing and on everything else that is right in this law 458. So that I don't delay long, although I can speak here as long as I want, but I don't want to, so I think these facts are very well verifiable by an audit that called for a new ERU leadership. BDO's audit company concluded that such high payments had been guaranteed that investments in photovoltaic power plants, which were calculated at that time for 15 years, had already returned within 12 years. Solar power plants, but, of course, large companies, sometimes also with bearer shares, and not an association of investors in photovoltaics, who again feel very badly damaged by a low purchase price of 5.50 per kWh, i.e. they will receive aid for the entire lifetime, i.e. 20 years. And basically two decrees by the Energy Regulatory Authority, which interpreted the law in their own way, were enough. Moreover, the methods of calculating the purchase prices from 2007 and 2009 were never sufficiently documented. The established technical and economic parameters have not always been selected taking into account the current conditions in the sector. There have also been identified cases where parameters were used in the calculation contrary to the decree itself, and calculations therefore contain errors. I say this again as proof that it is not simple and easy, and now let us be fair, both the Ministry and, of course, the Energy Regulatory Office are not in a situation today where they can accurately say: it will cost so much or save so much. This is also one of the reasons why I think that this law should be adopted only when these numbers are absolutely clear to us and we won't say that one side may be right that it has the right estimates, but the other must give it... She really isn't capable at this time. In conclusion, I would like to mention - and please do not take it so clearly that I am on the side, I am singing to the current President Vitásková. However, it should be noted that the current leadership of the ERO under the leadership of this new President has done a number of things that have been absolutely right. What were those things that were absolutely right? What kind of things were they? [[1.]] The current management of the ERU has initiated the cessation of financial operating support for new renewable sources due to their unsustainable financing. 2. The maximum level of payment for support for supported energy sources paid by final consumers has been established. 3. It determined the amount of the aid in full in accordance with the authorisation and diction of the law. 4. It introduced a reduction in the amount of operating aid on the basis of the non-refundable investment subsidy received. 5. It has carried out an audit to determine the purchase prices, the conclusions of which it has forwarded to the competent authorities, and has introduced them to the general public. For the last time. In the current amendment, it proposed measures to limit the effects of disproportionate support and return, and to increase the ability to control the eligibility of aid, one of which was removed during the legislative process and the other faced amendments that could make it completely useless and useless. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have put a few arguments here that I will not ask militantly, but I simply appeal to common sense not to rush into the fact that today we have to discuss this law as much as it stands, that we consider any discussion to be obstruction, but let us leave time for this law. But I don't mean to park it for two years as it is customary for some other laws in this House. Let's keep it until the numbers are clear on which the petitioner agrees with the regulator. And that's my conclusion. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry if I mistook or stuttered, so please forgive me. I don't have an actor's degree, so I don't know how to articulate well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u66	Thank you. I note Mr Kasal's factual remark here, and I want to ask him - perhaps a mistake on your counter. [[Mr. Kasal said it was a mistake.]] Okay. Thank you. Now, allow me to read two apologies, it is an apology from the Minister of Defence from today's meeting from 14.30 to 17 o'clock for work reasons, and Mrs Adamová from 14 o'clock for work reasons. Now, please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u67	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that this point be interrupted and that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mrs Alena Vitásková, be given the opportunity to answer questions and to explain some of the positions on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u68	Thank you. I note Mr Kořenko's factual remark here, but unfortunately I cannot let him go to the microphone now because a procedural proposal has been made. We must vote on it immediately. [[Sudden noise in the hall.]] The procedural proposal, we must discuss it without delay, without discussion. [[A Member of the Glass has stood up to the microphone.]] Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u69	I am sorry, Madam President, but I have a right. And we've dealt with this in the House several times. If there is a procedural proposal, it is my authority to propose an amendment to this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u70	All right, then, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u71	Since this is a rather surprising proposal again, I would like to make an amendment to this procedural proposal at the moment to suspend negotiations for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u72	So we're going to vote on a counter-proposal - a ten-minute suspension. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. [[Big mess and noise in the hall.]] [[11.30 hours]] I am opening the vote on the counter-proposal put forward by President Sklenák for a 10-minute suspension. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 19, to which 132 are registered, for 71, against 15. I'm stating that the motion has been accepted, and I'm interrupting the meeting for 10 minutes. Meet me here at 11:40.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the time limit for interruption has expired. It's 11:40, and we should continue our negotiations. Please refer to Mr Fiedler's microphone, which is entered into the debate. [[The noise in the hall, the MPs are just sitting in their seats.]] Please take your word for it. I will ask for peace in the hall so that we can continue the debate. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u74	Thank you for the floor. I hope that the House will calm down a bit, because we are discussing a very important and fundamental matter which can affect both citizens and our state budget. [[Still noisy in the hall.]] As you have heard, the Dawn Parliamentary Club will demand that the law be returned by first reading or that Members agree not to deal with it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u75	I really ask the House for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u76	Thank you, too. Let me sum up the main reasons why we have come to this. This will be a summary of my previous speakers' reservations. There have been reservations about a number of provisions of the proposed amendment. However, we are most concerned with the rapid adoption of these amendments, which lead to a number of logical nonsense appearing in it. Moreover, by its resolution no. 851, the government ordered the Minister of Industry to prepare an amendment to the Energy Act by the end of next year to amend the amendment to the Act, which is still going through a second reading in the Chamber of Deputies. So traditional procedure - we're already preparing amendments to what we're going to receive. The Minister is to submit a proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act, adjusting the basic rules for the exercise of regulation in the energy sectors and the area of administrative punishment in breach of obligations under the Energy Act. That way, even before we know how the current regulatory change will turn out, another change in regulatory rules is already being prepared, which is a huge rise in instability, because the principles of regulation are changing faster than once a year. I'm just gonna put a short drawer in here. I attended several meetings of industrialists and traders at the Association of Industry. Everyone speaks of stability and predictability as the most important. So how are companies to prepare for a new regulatory period, how is the Authority to monitor prices for final consumers, and how is it to invest in protecting our networks against dangers from abroad? It is a direct threat to the stability of our market. I would like to make clear the fundamental reservations leading to the destabilisation of the energy market and the threat to the Czech Republic's energy security. First of all, it is already a number of times mentioned by the Energy Regulatory Authority § 17b in the current version of the amendment. Basically, the current administration of the office is abolished by law, but the newly created board will not govern the office because it will not have the authority to do so. The independence of the Office is also limited because the President of the Republic is excluded from the appointment and appeal process. In addition, members of the Board may be dismissed for minor misconduct. However, a draft law establishing the Office for the Protection of Enterprise in Transport, where the management of the transport regulator is composed and appointed as well as the current management of the Energy Regulatory Office, is included in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure by 20 November. So if it doesn't matter about transport, why is the current energy management system of the Energy Authority abolished in the amendment to the Energy Act? I believe that this is a dedicated step, which is intended to aim personally at the current staff management of the Office. Furthermore, it is a new design of regulated services, prices and types of contracts that, according to lawyers, can lead to all contracts between end customers and energy traders having to be changed. Consider for yourself what it would mean in our terms and habits. ERU fee pursuant to § 17d para. 2 is conceived at once completely unsystemically differently than e.g. the fee for the OEME market operator, thereby becoming a mess. The amount of the fee is to be newly determined by the government, but the conditions are not defined. There is a threat of restrictions on the funding of the Office, and therefore a restriction on its independence, because it will depend on the government. The regulatory period of Section 19a is fixed for all regulated entities by law as five years. Despite the contradiction raised in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure and in the Legislative Council of the Government, a crisis mechanism was not included in the proposal so that the regulatory period could be extended in serious situations. Insufficient sanctions on natural persons in relation to the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market will result in 700 billion annual turnover in the supervision of trades. It will only be able to impose a penalty on natural persons up to EUR 50 000. Crowns. I'll repeat the numbers: 700 billion annual sales. EUR and sanctions of 50 thousand. Crowns. With amounts of fraudulent transactions, they can reach up to an estimated 70 billion. EUR per year. Then they will be able to cheat undisturbedly, and unlike Germany, this will not be a criminal offence. The ceiling of the maximum amount of electricity supported has been removed from the upcoming law. Therefore, we do not have the opportunity to verify, easily and without retrospective intervention, whether there has been a recompensation of aid for solar power plants contrary to the notification of the European Union. This was an instrument to mitigate the effects of EU notification, which is likely to order us to check after ten years, when a number of entities will have to return money already paid back. What a mess this will lead to, I'm sure you can imagine. Transitional provisions for determining the price component of the distribution system and transmission system services assume that new charging of renewables charges will be introduced, payments for a circuit breaker, not for consumption, often referred to as from 1. 7. 2015. In that case, however, the law would have to come out in the Collection of Laws by 31 January 2015, which we did not have time for, so it is not even possible to discuss. Therefore, the Dawn Club proposes that the law be returned to the first reading. If there is real danger of delay due to European regulations and, where appropriate, other provisions, there is the possibility of adopting a compromise comprehensive amendment created by the ERU. Other points should be discussed in expert discussion and should be submitted to the amendment of the law according to the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic No. 851/2014. [[11.50 hours]] I still dare to continue my performance, and for the third time, I will repeat a question that I have not received two answers. So, for the third time, I am asking the Minister through both the President and the petitioner why we are in such a hurry to discuss this law. That's the third time I've asked. I didn't get an answer twice, I said three times, "Why are we in such a hurry?" I did not get the answer either to why there was no response from either the Economic Committee or the Government to the letter from the EU of May 2013. There's one crucial thing. The Minister of Finance is here, and it has been mentioned several times, that what is proposed is that it will be possible to divide from photovoltaic power plant, the big ones into smaller ones, that they will receive a billion-dollar advantage, an estimate of 35 billion, you do not have to agree with the number, but they are billions in order, so the guardian of the state register is cold and did not comment. I would at least expect to hear an opinion from the Minister of Finance, whether he will deny it or whether he is counting on it or not, because on the one hand, we are trying, virtually. His ministry and government, which is absolutely commendable, reducing deficits and saving billions, will we chase businessmen through cashiers and reporting sales on small amounts, and billions will elude us? Next thing you know, I have one more question. At the seminar where Mr Šolc was present, it was said from his side that there was not so much agreement in everything between the proposals of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Legislative Council of the Government. If that is so, why have there been changes, why have the proposals of the Ministry of Industry and Trade been amended by the Legislative Council of the Government, and why is the government presenting them in a changed form? I hope I finally get an answer to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u77	I thank and ask the Minister if he is claiming priority rights. That is so, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to the call from Dawn by you through Madam President, although I feel that I have already said all this in my introductory words, but I will do it again. The reason for submitting this amendment is the need for the transposition of European regulations, the resolution of the directive on economic efficiency, which should have been transposed already on 5 June 2014. This is primarily dealt with by law, which is already in the Senate at the moment, but this law also partially responds to it. Of course, this is also a response to the notification of the Renewable Resources Act, where I would like to point out that the situation is quite complex, because the notification was carried out in part only for the sources put into service from 1. 1. 2013. That was not before, because individual general directorates themselves are not clear, what is more important, whether overcompensation or any retroactivity that would threaten. Another reason is to reconcile the terminology, because the new Civil Code applies, far from everything, all its consequences are reflected. And last but not least, or perhaps in the first place, it is the thing that we do for the Czech industry, so that it is competitive, which has already been said many times, and it is, of course, with the full support of tripartite. Those are the reasons why I'm presenting this law. I would like to say that there are absurd ideas that I should link it to another novel, or amuse me with the idea that if a law has too many amendments that we will return it. If we were to go this way, I say: this is the way to hell, because then each Member could block any law, because he would make 200 amendments, and then it would be said that the law is wrong, because there are too many amendments. That would be the definition in the circle, a very bad idea, which, of course, I firmly hope will not be adopted, because that would be close to the right of the veto of each Member to discuss the law. This institution, which we represent here, has a huge influence, a huge responsibility, but it should make majority decisions and not be blackmailed by individual Members who do not like certain matters. I would also like to mention the cost to consumers. The cost to consumers, which will be reflected in prices, is essentially three. It is a larger withdrawal of money for the operation of the Energy Regulatory Office by CZK 86 million. I point out that it's not for advice, it's for the ERU to work better. Nor are there quite relevant considerations as to how much the council is going to cost. At this point, the President has five Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents, so I firmly hope that if the Council is established, we will have only four. That's enough. It is also absurd to point out that it should have minor qualifications requirements. It's exactly the opposite. At this point in time, some Vice-Presidents do not meet the conditions for qualifications, and yet they are performing their duties. I would also like to say to Mr Andrle, through Madam President, that before he proposes to the President at the František Kriegl Award for civil bravery, he should wait for the decision of an independent court, because the President is accused of crimes where there is not a very small rate. I certainly do not exercise the right of jurisdiction, but the judicial authority will have to decide whether these allegations are justified or unfounded, and it would not be good to suggest someone who is finally convicted. I wanted to pass on this information because maybe if it weren't for this unfortunate situation, we would have saved ourselves a whole series of discussions, because there wouldn't be a reason for it. Personally, I would like the courts to decide in some way, but I understand, of course, that I cannot push as a representative of executive power or of the time aspect of judicial decision-making. Just when they decide, they'll decide, and we'll have to deal with it. Another item that will be reflected in prices is CZK 70 million, which will be used to deter birds from flying on high voltage wires. Then there may still have some impact of registration of demand points in the order of approximately CZK 30 million, but I note this is after 2020. So the direct effects on consumers are in the order of the koruna and we are talking about pardons, not even a percentage. This must be clearly stated as to what the direct effects of this amendment are. I would also like to say that, given the unfortunate situation with regard to the President, I could, in principle, thank you for one thing, because everything is good for something. The bad for something good is that few laws, where even the most absurd possibilities are discussed, even the most absurd gaps that could ever arise, which probably will not occur, but we deal with them, we deal with them in committees, we deal with them in plenary, so that, frankly, I have more certainty that nothing extraordinary will happen because of this very reason that everything is thoroughly discussed. Those constant-recruited photovoltaics - so I would like to ask some colleagues from Dawn again through Madam President to take at least equal access to me as to Mrs Vitásková. [[12.00 hours]] Either I am responsible for all the actions of my predecessors between 2006 and 2009 and then Mrs Vitásková is responsible, or Mrs Vitásková is not responsible for the actions of her predecessors, specifically Mr Fiřt, so I am not responsible for the actions of my predecessors at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I'd like equal treatment. So that's one thing I think is important. And personally, I would like to add that the main failure was not the adoption of a law, but - and it was quite well described here - prices have changed and have not been responded for a long time. So if there's a problem, we now know that it's crucial to react in real time. I think we're all taught from that trillion crowns that cost photovoltaics, and it shouldn't be a barrier to us approving this novel. If I were to connect this to the amendment, as recommended here, which is to come at the end of the year, I note that there would probably be thousands of amendments, because there would be an increase in the need to amend a number of other points and the situation would be even more obscure. Therefore, the per partes method is better than the proposed solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u79	Thank you, Minister. Have a good afternoon. We will continue the debate. I have two factual points here. Mr Adam and Mr Pilný have the first. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u80	Hello again. I have to respond to the words of the previous speaker. It is often argued here that this standard must be voted out and dragged through the House as quickly as possible because of the EU. The amendment does not take into account the REMIT regulation. This is an EU demand! At this point, we would be one of the first three states to adopt such a standard. This is only true in two states. There's no rush. Nobody's pressuring us, we're not in danger of sanctions. Proposal from the point of view of the EU, respectively. from the point of view of EU law, neither does the energy Ombudsman, to whom we have a duty to 1. 7. And frankly, if this law is not adopted now in this form as proposed, the EU directive applies. It is superior to Czech law. The Minister invites us to believe the arguments of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Yes, why not, but for example, the MIT says that in 2020 there will be a load of 45 billion. CZK and we achieved this already in 2014 and will be at least 20 percent higher in 2020. There have been so many mistakes in the history of the Ministry of Industry and Trade that we have to flash all the warning lights, and that is why we are doing this opposition work here so conscientiously. We want to support the Czech industry, but we want to support it at the cost of risk, because we believe that we must enforce this law. I said yesterday: Let's solve this by the government's order, let's subsidize the Czech industry. It'll work, and it'll be safe. We want to support the Czech industry, and we do not solve overcompensation and we do not solve undercompensation of solar power plants. If we approach this as a regular business, then we have to figure out that somebody's making dirty money and somebody's losing money. Let's straighten the system out. Anyone interested in that? We do. Let's talk about it, let's give it back and let's finish this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u81	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Pilný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u82	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to comment briefly on the work of the Economic Committee. The Economic Committee has discussed all amendments to this law professionally. The Chair of the Energy Regulatory Authority was also invited to this meeting, a seat was reserved for her, and she did not show up. There were two ERÚ representatives who didn't say anything. There were also representatives of Dawn, who had the same background as they have today, and did not express themselves. On that controversial point, which concerns the potential division of solar power plants or panels, I would like to say that the economic committee rejected the increase in the limit precisely in order to avoid speculation. I'm sure we'll come back to the matter in order to dispel any doubt that such speculation might occur. On the other hand, I point out that the principle that energy should be consumed where it is produced is absolutely fine. If we applied it consistently and applied it more consistently, we would not have to evict the inhabitants of Horní Jiřetín. So this path is absolutely right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u83	Thank you. I note another factual remark made by Mr Adam. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u84	Thank you and I will respond again to the words of the previous speaker, whom I really appreciate immensely. As I say, I partly agree - the negotiations of the Economic Committee were professional, but let us put it in figures: 189 amendments, of which more than half were from a member of the Government Coalition, were discussed in two and a quarter hours. I think that says it all. The debate was only open to the points where we had to enforce it. I'm not saying it wasn't professional, it was well prepared, but there's still something wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u85	Thank you. I am now not seeing anyone with a factual point, so we will proceed to a proper debate. Mrs Jana Hnyková will now speak with her contribution. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I'll put on my glasses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u87	Before you begin with your contribution, I will ask my colleague and colleague that if they have something important to deal with, they go into the foyer to reduce the noise level. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u88	Thank you, too, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to return to the issue of changes in consumer contracts in the energy sector concerning energy supply and related services, i.e. on a subject that I merely indicated in my speech yesterday and which deals with the weakening of consumer protection in the Czech Republic's energy market in relation to the amendment to the Energy Act, the amendment to the Act on Supported Resources and the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] A major negative outcome resulting from the amendments is the likely need to amend about five million existing consumer contracts. As I have already said and you have all heard here, I see the problem at first glance in the fact that this situation can be used, for example, by door-to-door vendors famous for misleading advertising and their insidious tricks directed e.g. in the ranks of pensioners or socially weaker fellow citizens who are easily lost in the free energy market processes due to misleading information from sellers. Trust in an expert who, moreover, is often impersonated as a public official, usually as an employee of the Energy Regulatory Authority, the State Energy Inspection Authority or the Czech Trade Inspection Authority or as an employee of an established, renowned company, but also convinces younger people who feel that they have an overview of the energy market and their rights, regardless of their access to information. In view of the need for visual control of existing contracts and their overwriting, whether due to updates or unauthorised manipulation, there may be a future signing of contracts for the supply of energy and related services for the same period of time for several suppliers at the same time, as is now happening, fortunately only randomly. Mr President, I would like to make peace, because I am talking about people here, and, obviously, no one cares!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u89	Yes, Madame, I will support you in your request, and I will repeat that whoever has something important to deal with should go into the lobby and discuss it there and in the room to be calm and to hear what you are speaking. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues, for respecting that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Subsequently, there may be changes in suppliers regardless of the end of contracts with the original supplier, which usually result in contractual penalties contained in contracts or general commercial conditions. Both due to the number of forced changes can then increase the number of such cases. The solution to problems will then fall on consumer organisations, the Energy Regulatory Office and its employees, including the internal Ombudsman, or also on the Ombudsman of public rights, or on the courts. The very amount of changes in consumer contracts will cause both a jump and a higher administrative burden for suppliers. In addition to the fact that this will certainly be reflected financially somewhere, there are likely to be minor consequential errors associated with this activity in the current situation. In this case, however, it may even be a mass scale. I prefer not to think that there might be any changes in consumer contracts other than those arising directly from changes in laws. I do not want to repeat myself, but I would like to add a few more words on the issue of out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, namely in the energy sectors. It is certainly good to use a wider range of tools that consumer disputes can resolve without the intervention of the court and thus speed up the process and make it cheaper. There is, however, an Ombudsman of public rights, whose agenda is, say, universal. In the long term, the Energy Regulatory Authority has focused on consumer disputes in energy. In the past, it was his consumer protection department, and later the internal Ombudsman, who was involved in another part of the agenda. From my point of view, it is not transparent to break down this activity among several entities, which could, moreover, compete, possibly solve the same case, delivered to both places at the same time, and propose different procedures, even if they lead to the same goal at the end. In addition to unnecessary duplication or triple the agenda, I also consider it unnecessary for another body to be funded to deal with alternative solutions to consumer disputes. If the entity were financed from private sources, I would worry about its independence. The last issue I need to mention in the energy sectors in relation to consumers is energy poverty. It is interesting how much effort the Ministry of Industry and Trade devotes to settling the situation in the Czech Republic's energy market without cooperating in any way on social issues and solutions that would make it easier for the most needy. It should work with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to find out how many households receive housing benefits, which are largely made up of a contribution to energy, and regardless of the interests of large energy companies, the Ministry should think about how to protect customers. I must emphasise once again and conclude that there is now an effort throughout the European Union to protect consumers from giant corporations, especially in banking, energy and telecommunications. In the European Union, it is sometimes very difficult and financially difficult for ordinary people to defend themselves against unfair fines from such corporations. On the contrary, giant firms have enough funds for entire legal departments, which are able to crush a commoner literally during a dispute. It is precisely these people that should be made available to the Ombudsman of the Energy Regulatory Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank from this point all the members of the Committee on Social Policy who have contributed to the approval of my amendment to the introduction of the Energy Ombudsman into the law. I hope that you will also support this resolution here in plenary. I ask on this occasion why the Ministry has not already introduced an energy Ombudsman directly into the law. I know that the energy Ombudsman may be a small drop in the sea, but he can at least contribute to the partial correction of some of the injustices of ordinary people in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u91	Thank you, too, Madame. We will continue the proper debate. Mr Adam is now registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u92	Hello. At the beginning of my performance, I have to return a little to my family vacation tour. I really just said that I don't go to Tuscany, which means I'm a man who loves Greece, I go on vacation there. As far as Italy is concerned, I end up in Bibione and have political ties, and I meet with the other Member Adam very often. But now I will return to my amendment. This concerns preventing us from losing the money we pay for renewables. My proposal was not accepted on the Economic Committee and was also released from the original amendment by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. However, given the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office and several reports in the news of Czech Television, it turns out that there is a real threat of regulation here by the European Union, in order to stop support for some renewable sources and to withdraw it as well. What will the opaque owners of large solar power plants do then? They're gonna go bankrupt. No money will come back and we will deal with the issue of removing panels for many years or even dealing with non-functioning solar power plants. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has launched an adjustment for overcompensation only on the basis of the very general characteristics of the Government Legislative Council, which has called the adjustment a retroactive one, which has not solved the problem, has merely shifted to the future, as the European Union will insist on introducing a similar mechanism. Electricity production should be encouraged in the amount calculated for the calculation of the purchase price guaranteeing a 15-year return period. The production of electricity beyond this quantity would be based on a market principle without aid. Now I'm getting to the important financial side of things. According to analyses by the Energy Regulatory Authority and independent experts on data from 2010 to 2013, the annual savings of the extra costs needed to cover the aid would be around 1 to 1.5 billion on average. crowns every year. Each year we would save over a billion crowns for at least ten years. That's why I'm putting the proposal back into play. By the proposals presented, they introduce into the law a mechanism defining the limits of the maximum amount of electricity to which the producer is entitled to claim aid for the entire lifetime of electricity production and within one calendar year. This is not the introduction of limits on the production of electricity from renewable sources, but the limit on the amount of electricity to which producers are allowed to apply operating aid under the Act on supported and renewable energy sources. By applying the mechanism for the maximum amount of electricity eligible for support from the producer, the aid shall be recovered only for the amount of electricity calculated in calculating the amount of the purchase price guaranteeing the 15-year period. As I said, the reason for proposing this mechanism is the creation of a prerequisite for fulfilling the commitment of the Czech Republic arising from the notification of Act No. 165/2012 Coll., in which the Czech Republic undertook to proceed to individual control of all renewable energy production plants in the tenth year of the plant operation and to verify whether there is no overcompensation for a specific beneficiary of the aid granted through public funds. The Czech Republic has already committed itself in the European Commission to this control for the resources and manufacturing plants put into operation after 1 January 2013, however, the notification is still ongoing and it is very likely that at least the same commitment will be required by the European Commission for the Czech Republic and for all other production plants and resources. The implementation of measures to limit the amount of electricity eligible for aid will be subject to another amendment to the Act. However, setting the limit on the amount of electricity eligible for aid is a very important measure which must be introduced before individual control itself after ten years, as it can reasonably be feared that Act No. 165/2012 Coll., but above all Act No. 180/2012 Coll. allow for overcompensation of public aid which is contrary to the conditions for the granting of public aid laid down by European Union law or decisions taken by the Commission on the basis of it. [[12.20 hours]] In view of the reasons set out above, there may be a situation in which, after 10 years of operation, the control will be found to be overcompensation for the beneficiary, which is contrary to the conditions for the granting of public aid laid down by European Union law, prior to the checks carried out in the tenth year. This would necessarily lead to situations where the producer will have to return the aid paid. In view of the possible high amount of the aid recovered, significant effects can be expected for investors likely to lead to the inability to refund the funds and thus the insolvency of the companies concerned. The proposed mechanism leading to the reduction of the aided amount of electricity serves for an even distribution of the payment of public aid in such a way that the control body is not overcompensated in the tenth year and there is no situation in which it will have to repay the public aid. The result of the check in the tenth year may then be the setting of a new annual limit on the amount of electricity eligible for aid so that the amount of aid paid is granted in accordance with the conditions for granting public aid laid down in European Union law. The aim of the mechanism of limitation of the aided quantity is therefore to spread the payment of the aid evenly over time and the aid for that amount of electricity, respectively. the period of use that was specified in the implementing rules at that time and which was envisaged in determining the purchase price and which provided a 15-year return on the investment. This mechanism takes into account all the guarantees provided by the law and also takes into account the essential comments which have been made to it during the legislative process. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I will re-submit my proposal, and you can find it as House Press No. 2044. Thank you for your attention, and hopefully I won't bother you anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u93	Thank you, Mr Member, and I will now ask another member of the debate, and that is Mr Andrle. For the record, I'm just reminding you that at 12.45, we have a tight vote. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u94	Dear colleagues, I will be brief because much of what I wanted to say here said Karel Fiedler. I'll follow up on the speech. Another problem with the threat of embarrassment in the European Union is the lack of sanctions on individuals in relation to the governance of the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, so-called. REMIT. The Ministry is proposing whether a violation involving the manipulation of the wholesale energy market... has now left something out... has been imposed a fine of CZK 50,000. The proposed amount of sanctions of CZK 50,000 for offences in the field of energy wholesale is negligible and ineffective. The Energy Regulatory Authority proposed the possibility of sanctioning offences up to CZK 10 million, which fulfils the relevant provisions of the REMIT Regulation on effective dissuasive and proportionate sanctions, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. In Germany, for example, the punishment for similar activities is only a few years in prison. With us, you just pay 50,000 crowns and happily manipulate the price further. To imagine it, it's a market with a volume of 700 billion. EUR per year and individual shops are in hundreds of millions to billions of crowns. It's worth risking a fine when it comes to a single sentence! As a Member, I am struck by the fact that the sanctions generally did not go under the control of the Government's Legislative Council, because, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade has confessed, it was not completed even before the last meeting of the Government's Legislative Council last October. In general, the law shows a trend to restrict the control power of the state and punishing the dishonest. To put it simply, if someone is cheating on production from renewable sources, he is facing a fine, but not a loss of aid. If someone is manipulating the wholesale market, they are facing a ridiculous fine, but fraud is not a crime. If someone harms consumers, punishment can successfully defend itself for many years with the help of hired lawyers. I'd like the Ministry to answer why it doesn't want to fight fraud and offers badass fines instead of punishing the dishonestes properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not keep you long, yet I would like to open one question here and address the Minister of Industry with a request for an answer to that question. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, we discussed this bill as well, among other things. We have dealt with the fact that the law envisages some kind of revision of engineering networks in the territory, their entry into the cadastral and cleaning and making order in this respect. After that, I think it's commendable. However, it is obvious that it will be decades, I will say fifty, perhaps more years of neglected issues, when there are laid energy networks in the territory, and if we are to go through this, i.e. go through all the documentation of the individual building offices, see if there really is that blocking territory there, if there are seals, etc., this will go through no fun at all and it will cost something. And I would like to address the Minister of Industry, if he could answer me, in a simple way. The State will pay for this revision, because it was in the past a state that even without a fad and a warehouse, without looking back at whether or not it belonged to anybody, so it simply laid down engineering networks or put electricity in this case, or, if you want, cables, to put it simply. Who's gonna be the guy who's gonna finance this? Network owners? If they are owners, they will be paid by the State, or they will add this price to the price of energy, etc.? I just want to make sure that it doesn't go to the bianco check of users and consumers, but it'll probably go to the state, I suppose. That's one thing. And second, how long do you suppose there will be such a process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, or with priority rights? With priority rights, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u98	I would like to thank you for this intervention. This is really one of the most important problems we have encountered. It was not in the original proposal of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it was included at the initiative of the Legislative Council of the Government, an effort to resolve the fact that 52 years from 1948 to 2000 were not properly registered material burdens during the construction of energy networks. What is assumed is a projection, i.e. not a classic insertion, but in some way a record of these burdens. It was found during the debate that, of course, there is at least a risk of administrative costs and also a certain unsystemicity in this matter, because material burdens are done not only because of energy networks, but also because of telecommunications cables, sewers, water pipes and other matters. So after the negotiations with the head of the cadastral office, Mr. Večeřa, the agreement is that this law will not solve it and it will solve the cadastral law, which will solve all problems not only of the energy network, but also of the others. [[12.30 hours]] Of course, it will also be dealt with how it will be paid, and the variants are essentially two. Either this would allow those operators to project into the price, which would have happened if there hadn't been a regime that hadn't done it for 52 years, it would have been projected into the price, or it would have paid the state budget. These are essentially the two main options. But that doesn't solve this law, it will address the law on the cadastral office, which will solve how to do it, how to solve this gap in writing material burdens and how it will be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u99	Thank you, Minister. And now he is duly enrolled in the debate, Mr Karel Fiedler. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to start by reminding myself of my question about the Minister of Finance, when I asked if the state budget would miss the solar tax outages if we allowed the distribution of the power plants, the solar power plants, to the smaller ones. It is commendable that we are trying to have as little deficit as possible, but again, I find it strange to chase businessmen to some thousand and then budget to some millions, or maybe hundreds of millions, if we let ourselves swim there by an estimated two billion a year for allowing such a simple accounting operation that it will split into two and it will come out differently. Well, if it's okay with the Minister. I'm sure it would bother me. I didn't get an answer for the first time, I tried a second time. In the first case, Minister Mládek's third question was successful, so I believe I will have the answer. I would like to focus on a few points that repeatedly appear in the arguments of both advocates and opponents of the amendment to the Energy Act. I will try to dismantle them a little and show their impact on our energy independence and security of the Czech Republic in general. How else can it be perceived than a threat to our security when, at a time of international conflicts, which can deal with oil, gas and ultimately electricity prices, we undermine the independence of the Energy Regulatory Authority? We take his money and limit the basic functions of the regulator. What will result? Large energy companies will push through price increases that are regulated because market prices are losing competition for profits, and they are to be helped by a government that is supposed to have a huge whip for the entire regulatory office. It will reduce their real funds and depend only on the government for how much money ministers will give them. On top of that, there will still be an Energy Regulatory Board, totally dependent on executive power. If we add to that the deterioration of the regulation that colleagues have already mentioned here, it is literally a death cocktail. Now I'm going to focus on a senseless change in fees for the Energy Regulatory Authority's activity, which is now calculated by law, and the rate of charges is two crowns per megawatt hour of electricity and one crown per megawatt hour of gas. However, the proposal of the Ministry of Industry and Trade states that the rate of fees is set by the government by its regulation to cover the costs of the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities and to be at least CZK 1.70 per month, but not more than CZK 2.50 per month for each demand point of the electricity collector's customer, and at least 2.60 per month, but not more than CZK 3.90 per month for each demand point of the gas collector's customer. That will be about a third of the money compared to today, because the ERU's duty is constantly expanding and the costs will be added to the nonsensical and dependent council of the ERU. But the whole thing has a number of other negatives. For example, the proposed system favours large customers vis-à-vis small customers. Both categories will contribute the same amount, which I do not think is fair. It has never been explained by the Ministry why a fee is to be determined by a government regulation when the existing system has not raised any practical problems. No one knows why this change. It is not clear from the proposal when the government is to issue the regulation, but this is essential for the establishment of the budget in the middle of the year. It is unclear who will and when hand over the documents to the government for determining the rate, because the government will need to know the budget of the Office and, in particular, the number of demand points. The transitional provisions do not address what the 2015 and 2016 fee will be calculated from. In addition, in the provisions of § 17d para. 3 continues to talk about the total consumption of electricity and gas, which is clearly pointless. The annual amount of fees shall be determined as a multiple of the rate referred to in paragraph 2 and the total consumption of electricity and gas according to the data transmitted to the market operator in the Czech Republic by the system operator. The Ministry and the Government's Legislative Council didn't read the law after themselves? It shows what the law is asshole. The whole section is obviously ill-conceived and its possible improvement will not ensure its feasibility. I would therefore like to maintain the existing system of calculation and collection of fees, which will ensure smooth self-financing of the Office by at least 2017. This can be resolved by adopting the complete amendment proposed by the ERÚ. Another problem, of course, is the Council of the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is governed by Section 17b. It's not the advice itself. I guess it wouldn't be a problem if the board were supervisory. However, the adjustment represents a complete turnover from the originally intended control authority to the managing authority. The proposal also completely undermines the existing organisation of the Office, as it removes the existing institute of its chair and vice-chairmen, otherwise common among most central government bodies. It is still unclear whether the activity will be now or not until 2017. It is a last-minute variant copied according to the Czech Television model, which, according to my information, proves to be redundant and problematic in practice. For example, he has over 200,000 administrative inaction suits. Do we want this kind of trouble with the EROs, too? I'm sure you understand that the question is rhetorical. However, the adjustment means, above all, limiting the independence of the ERU if the board is to be completely appointed and called off by the government on a proposal from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is also a contradiction with the ERU directives. I don't think President Zeman's gonna like the proposal either. This is a limitation of the President's powers, as he appoints and withdraws the President of the ERU. From a technical point of view, therefore, as often said in the House by a representative of the Legislative Council of the Government, it is an asshole for the following reasons. It is unclear whether the members of the Board are employees of the ER and which employment regulations apply to them. It is not clear who will direct the daily work of the Office and what will be the relationship of the members of the Board to the executive office. The Council was to be the supervisory authority of the Authority's regulatory activities and it was assumed that it would be made up of economically educated persons in the proposed variant, but it also decides all secondary-instance legal matters, for which, however, legal and not economic education is needed. There is no economic or legal education in terms of function. It is not clear why another collective body will be included in the administrative decision-making next to the collective body of the decay committee. It is unclear what will be the role of the Council in judicial matters which are even more important to the energy sector than the second-tier administrative decisions of the ERU. [[12.40 hours]] The salary and nature, offices, cars, service apartments, assistants, travel expenses, etc., will significantly burden the Office's budget. Unconceived change in the management of the Energy Regulatory Authority will bring chaos just in a year when some 20 decrees of that office are to be amended, all its pricing decisions and set parameters for a new regulatory period. This is from the point of view of energy security of the Czech Republic, I would say, almost scandal. I will therefore vote in favour of all the proposals that this son of a bitch removes. [[There's noise and restlessness in the room.]] I'm watching as there's no interest in what's being said. I've already said it in the House once before: "Talk to me, we're still voting for it." In addition to the amendment that I have read and which talks about it - I would have followed up on my colleague Anderle, who spoke here a moment ago about sanctions, what happens if they are not respected. The amendment states that if the operator breaks the rules, he will be withdrawn from granting subsidies and will lose them definitively in the event of repeated infringements for 10 years. I will sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u101	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First of all, Mr Zahradník, Mr Adam after him, Mr Kořenek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u102	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to Mr Bendl's speech, to his question and to the reply of Minister Mládek, namely the problem of booking material burdens. By means of bookmarking, if it occurs, the relationships will be gradually clarified, and it will therefore be clear what is under which land or over which land is located from the point of view of energy systems. Landowners, which are sometimes private persons, sometimes local or regional authorities, or thus how they will react. And because local and regional authorities are obliged to behave like proper economic operators, they will be obliged to apply the burdens of fact, and in a very close time. They are still being monitored by their constituents and, on the one hand, by various authorities, especially law enforcement authorities, so that it does not happen that suddenly there will be a huge attack on network distributors, so that they do not suddenly have to burden consumers to the cost of applying the burdens in question to an increased degree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u103	I thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Adam. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u104	Hello. On behalf of the Úsvit movement club, I would like to make a motion in accordance with Section 63 of the Rules of Procedure to adjourn this point. The condition for continuation is the participation of the President of the ERO Alena Vitásková in the discussion of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u105	This is a procedural proposal. In that case, I'll put it to a vote. I'm gonna ring the doorbell for my co-workers from the lobby. I'll check you all out and ask you to come forward again. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal as submitted. Who's against the proposal? It's a 20-order vote. The Members present are 156, in favour of proposal 48, against proposal 76. I am of the opinion that the proposal has not been accepted. I still have one proposal in the general debate, and that is to return the bill to the guarantee committee for the renegotiation that Mr Černoch and Mr Okamura have presented. But I am asking, before I vote, whether anyone is joining the general debate. It's not like that. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask the rapporteur and the petitioner if you want to have final words. It's not like that. I will put to the vote to renegotiate the law to the guarantee committee. I ask who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 21. The Members present are 162. For proposal 54, against 83, this proposal was rejected. At this point, I am interrupting this point. We will continue at 2:30 by opening up a detailed debate. I interrupt this point. We will continue with the fixed ballot points, as we have approved. I will ask the President of the Election Commission to approach the microphone and lead us through the individual vote. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u106	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask you for peace and attention, because there are quite a few electoral points today. There will be quite a large number of important information to ensure that we do not err in the implementation of the elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-002-003.u107	I open the first point, and that's it.
