ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u1	125. Oral inhalation First of all, according to the winning order, Mr Antonín Seďa, who will interpel the Prime Minister in the matter of property returns, will give the first interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, the Czech Republic has been struggling with large debt in the long run, and there is an annual lack of money to finance social services, health, education, or to make money hard to raise old-age pensions. At the same time, many independent economists and organizations dealing with the grey economy are talking about tens of billions of crowns to which the state will not reach. In the Government's programming declaration, the chapter Improving tax collection talks about the tax code or the law on proof of the origin of property and the law on proof of the origin of property is one of the legislative priorities of the government this year. I would therefore like to ask, Prime Minister, how and to what extent will the government take measures to prove the origin of the property. And I also want to ask who in the government is responsible for the processing of the property return law and its submission to the government, and in what time is expected the negotiation of this law. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u3	I thank the honourable Member for his intervention. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u4	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that we have been debating property returns in our country for a very long time. In the past, I have repeatedly submitted drafts of laws that would introduce property returns. Unfortunately, there has never been a majority in the Chamber of Deputies that would allow such a proposal to be approved. I am glad that the intention has been to introduce a system of proof of the origin of the property in the coalition contract, in the government's programming declaration, and that it has actually come very really close to the moment when the bill is approved by the government and sent to the Chamber of Deputies. That schedule looks like the following way. Proving the origin of the property will be part of the amendment to the Income Tax Act. The amendment to the Income Tax Act should be effective from 1 January 2016, or 1 January 2016 the Institute of Proof of the Origin of Assets in the Czech Republic should be established. The amendment ended with a commentary procedure, and at this point the material is being discussed by the selected working committee of the Legislative Council of the Government. Once the examination of this amendment of the Income Tax Act at the Government Legislative Council is completed, it will be submitted immediately to the Government's meeting and then transferred to the Chamber of Deputies. I expect that during the month of April the Government's Legislative Council should be discussed, and by May at the latest, the Government should vote on this proposal, and I therefore assume that the House of Deputies could still receive the proposal in May. The Ministry of Finance is naturally responsible for the processing of the amendment to the Income Tax Act. I would just like very briefly to address the main objectives of the amendment that we are preparing. This basic objective is to identify assets which do not correspond significantly to the income of the taxpayer declared in tax returns and subsequently to tax the income which the taxpayer withheld from the tax administrator and from which the property was financed. It is not decisive whether income is obtained by legal or illegal means. Thus, the basic objective of this measure is not only to remedy a certain injustice that arises by legalising and using the assets it has acquired from taxed funds, but, in my view, the main objective of this law is also to prevent tax evasion or the legalization of tax evasion proceeds in our country to legalise the proceeds of crime. The law is built on the following structure. If the taxpayer is unable to demonstrate the origin of his income at the request of the tax administrator, and the estimated amount of non-admitted tax will be higher than 2 million. CZK, the tax administrator will proceed to the determination of the tax according to the so-called special aids to estimate the amount of the taxpayer's non-tax income by comparison with the unproven increase in his assets. From the standard tools used by the tax office today, the institute is different by taking into account only the expenses shown by the taxpayer. That is therefore the question of transferring the obligation to the taxpayer in this particular case. In such a case, when the tax is calculated in this manner, a penalty of up to 100 per cent of the tax, respectively, shall be prescribed at the same time as the tax is determined. at a rate of 50 per cent of the tax if the taxpayer cooperates with the tax administrator. Another instrument of tax administration in tax proceedings will be the declaration of assets, which is already being used in execution proceedings today. With this statement, the tax administrator will fix the situation of the taxpayer's assets, which is suspected of having a significant amount of non-taxed income. Consequently, the taxpayer can no longer claim that he had owned the newly acquired assets before. The indication of false data should then be a criminal offence and an increase in the upper rate is proposed for up to three years. So this institute should be the content of the upcoming amendment to the Income Tax Act, and I firmly believe that once the Government has submitted the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Chamber of Deputies will be intensively concerned and that the Government's ambitions could be met so that the Institute of Property Returns in our country, after a 25-year discussion, will become effective from 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I agree that property confessions are such a mirage of our Chamber of Deputies or our political scene at all. I would also like this standard to be adopted as quickly as possible, but in my view, such a law should not significantly burden decent citizens, but should, as you have mentioned, allow effective control of property compared to the income granted and, above all, taxed. That is why I want to ask you how much citizens will be burdened by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u8	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, this is not really about the institute of some general tax return, which would burden all taxpayers across the board. This is a special situation where the financial authority identifies the difference between the income of the taxpayer declared in the past and the assets acquired by the taxpayer in the past. Of course, in order to avoid the use of this institute in bagatile cases, it is proposed that at least a difference of 10 miles be considered as a significant difference. CZK, this means the difference between the property that the taxpayer could have acquired on the basis of taxable income and the property that he actually acquired. So it's proposed in the amendment so that the difference has to be at least 10 miles. Crowns. I think that the subject of legitimate discussion with the government will be whether the difference should be less, for example. was not supposed to be 5 mil. Kroner, but I think it's the amount of 5 miles. CZK is large enough for the financial office to actually deal with the most significant cases where there are real doubts of a large extent about the fact that the assets concerned were acquired from non-tax income. So there's an insurance policy, the difference should be at least 10 miles. Maybe the government will agree to five miles. The koruna, but in any case, there should be a clearly defined difference. If the doubts of the Financial Authority do not exceed that amount, then the Institute of Proof of the Origin of Assets should not be applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u9	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers to the first question. Now, with the second interview, Mrs Miroslava Němcová will come, who will interpel the Prime Minister about the President's journey to Moscow. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I noticed yesterday that the government postponed or interrupted the discussion of Miloš Zeman's trip to Moscow. I welcomed this step, but I also noticed that ministers from the Czech Social Democratic Party were willing to issue this trip or to the president of the bianco check, as opposed to ministers from the ANO movement or from the KDU-ČSL movement, who pawned the fact that the President's participation in that show, which is actually a demonstration of the power of contemporary Russia, should also be part of the trip. Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, adopted a resolution stating that Russia had violated international law and had unlawfully annexed Crimea. At the show to be held and to be a demonstration of the power of Putin's politics, representatives of the authoritarian regimes, including Kim Čong-un or the representatives of Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Transnistria or also the republics that were formed today in Ukraine, Luhanská and so on. I'd like to ask you, Prime Minister, if you've asked for any clarification on the journey. We'll be waiting to know what Mr. President's involvement is. And I want to ask you if you yourself are willing to support the journey at the price that the Czech Republic will be built if President Zeman takes part in this show after the side of those authoritarian, undemocratic, totalitarian killing regimes, I have appointed North Korea, and you will recommend to the government to carry out this journey. So your personal position as Bohuslav Sobotka as well as your position as Prime Minister. Whether you agree to this trip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u11	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u12	Thank you. Madam, a working visit to the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman in the Russian Federation should take place on 8 to 10 May this year. It's a visit to Moscow on the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II. The material relating to this work trip of the President of the Republic, yesterday, the government actually began to discuss. The government's meeting was adjourned. We have asked Foreign Minister Zaorálek to find out all the details concerning the programme that the Czech President Miloš Zeman will have during his visit to Moscow on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, and with detailed knowledge of this programme, the government should decide on its position next week on Wednesday, when he will meet again at his regular meeting. I have announced that ministers for social democracy will not block the President's journey to Moscow by voting at the government's meeting. I have two main reasons for this position, on which the Social Democratic members of the government have agreed. Firstly, I believe that there is no need for us to raise such an extensive conflict between constitutional actors in this context, that is, between the government on the one hand and the President of the Republic on the other. I think that such an open conflict, where the government would not unprecedentedly approve the foreign path of the President of the Republic, would damage the perception of the Czech Republic on the outside and damage the image of constitutional institutions in the eyes of citizens. I do not remember this and I do not have any information from the past that it would ever happen that the government of the Czech Republic would prevent the President of the Republic from taking a foreign trip by expressing its disagreement with his planned, announced path. I consider this to be a truly extraordinary instrument, and I think this is not the situation where the government should use such an extraordinary instrument. I do not mention at all the fact that it is the President of the Republic who has been elected directly, which means he has a direct mandate from citizens, unlike the presidents of the Republic who preceded him within his mandate and derived their mandate from Parliament. The second reason I think it is not appropriate for us to block the President's journey to Moscow is that the journey takes place in the context of the 70th anniversary celebrations of the end of World War II. I understand that the end of World War II is otherwise perceived in Ukraine, otherwise in Eastern Ukraine, otherwise in Western Ukraine, that I perceive it differently in Latvia, Lithuania or Estonia, is perceived in Poland, and otherwise it is perceived in Slovakia or the Czech Republic. I think that it is not possible even in the light of the sharp conflict between Ukraine and Russia today, in the light of the cooling of the relationship between Russia and the European Union, between Russia and NATO, it is not possible to forget the fact that it was Czechoslovakia, which was liberated by the forces of the then Red Army at the end of World War II. It is impossible to ignore the fact that more than 100,000 Rus and members of other nationalities who fought in the then Red Army died in the liberation of Czechoslovakia. The President is not going to a summit there, he is not going to a meeting there, which would in any way interfere with the Czech Republic's position on the crisis towards Ukraine. He is going to attend the 70th anniversary celebration of the end of World War II. It's an action that takes place in a similar format to a reminder of the landing of the allies in Normandy. I want to remind you that the Normandy event was taking place at the time when the Russian-Ukrainian crisis was running, and at the Normandy event, which was also a memory of the landing of the allies, so it was a reminder of the fallen in World War II, so not only President Putin but also Chancellor Merkelová or French President Hollande took part in the event and also Czech President Miloš Zeman took part in the event. That is the second reason why I believe it is not appropriate for us to block as members of the government the path of the President of the Republic for which he has decided. One last comment on this matter. The fact that President Zeman will attend memories in Moscow does not mean that this would change in any way the position declared by the Government of the Czech Republic on the crisis in Ukraine. We have repeatedly expressed ourselves in the past in a way that is consistent with the resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. I, too, voted in favour of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Our government has condemned Russia's approach to Ukraine. We consider this procedure unacceptable, and our government has also supported the united position of the countries of the European Union on the Ukrainian crisis, and our government has also supported the measures implemented by NATO precisely to assure its allies that they do not have to worry about Russia's current aggressive behaviour. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. Madame, your space for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u14	No one doubts the need to honor the memory of the dead. This can be done on Czech territory and there is no proper problem. The method chosen by President Kiska in Slovakia or Angela Merkelová in Germany can be chosen. The other reason. As for the first reason, you mentioned that you do not wish for any widespread open conflict between the institutions, between the government and the President. Then I must ask you, Prime Minister, how did you go into a big and open conflict yourself, personally, when it was about your Prime Minister's chair? You stood up to the President of the Republic who was preparing for such a second constitutional coup, basically, where he agreed with a part of your fellow party members on how to remove you. That's when you mobilized all your powers to sit in the Prime Minister's chair. How is it that you are not now able to stand up to the President in terms of defending the interests of the Czech Republic as regards its good reputation for allies, both NATO and the European Union. Where are your readings?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u15	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u16	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a difference between expressing your opposition to the President's position as a constitutional official as Prime Minister. For example, I expressed my disagreement about the Easter weekend in a situation where the President of the Republic declared that the United States Ambassador had closed the door to the Prague Castle. I considered the reaction of the President of the Republic inadequate towards what the Ambassador of the United States actually said, and I criticised the President's progress. So something else is verbal criticism or controversy among political constitutional actors, and something else is an unprecedented step by the government towards the President of the Republic at a time when the government would make it impossible by its resolution to take the path planned by the President of the Republic, for which it decided to execute its mandate and which, after all, was confirmed by the host country. [[14.50 hours]] This would cause a scandal to a large extent, and it would damage the Czech Republic outwards. We would be seen as countries where constitutional officials are unable to speak to each other, where they are unable to give, coordinate their positions, and where they have to treat each other in such a strict way, that is to say, they throw sticks at each other in such a way. I don't think the Czech Republic deserves to have such a reputation abroad. I prefer action, I prefer coordinated action. And as far as next week's government negotiations are concerned, I am going to vote that I do not want to block the way of the President of the Republic for the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, precisely because it is because of those who have sacrificed their lives to defeat Hitler Nazism in Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u17	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers for the second interview. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who will interpel the Prime Minister on registration cash registers, will give the third interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u18	Thank you for the floor. Tonight, I'm just quoting numbers from government material. In order not to be accused of the opposition making something up, I want to focus on the potential revenues of the state budget and on the costs of the business sector. [[He's got a sign in his hand that says STOP to register cashiers. The ODS is with you.]] According to the explanatory memorandum and according to RIA, which was prepared by the Ministry of Finance, the estimated cost of purchasing the system is approximately CZK 370 million and then operating every year around CZK 500 million, including the adoption of 400 new workers, and I am counting only wages and levies, and I am not counting some equipment that those workers will certainly have to - that is, half a billion a year, 400 new workers and 370 million to acquire the system. The costs estimated again by the Ministry of Finance for the business sector are from 5,700 for small retailers. Cashier for medium seller 9,000, total cost of medium company 450,000. Operating costs from CZK 5 000 per year. According to RIA's government material, the estimated number of registers is 4.5 million pieces. So only at operating costs - the 500 crowns a month, it looks like nothing, it's 2.5 billion a year. I want to ask the Prime Minister, when he painted there that he would bring 12 billion into the state budget, and there is a note "according to his own calculations by the Ministry of Finance," whether he saw the calculations where the calculations came from, because we had the Parliamentary Institute process Croatia's tax revenues, so many times quoted, there is no increase in tax collection. I can provide all my colleagues with material. So, question: How did you come up with that 12 billion annual income, and what do you say that only the operating costs of the business sector will be at least 2.5 billion a year? I think the result will be in denial that it will not be so much chosen, while you will burden entrepreneurs with billions of dollars a year. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u19	I thank Mr Stanjur. Please, Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u20	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, as it happens, on Monday and Tuesday I will attend a working visit to Slovenia and one of the topics we will discuss with the Slovenian Prime Minister is the Slovenian Government's decision to inspire the Croatian system of electronic sales records. The Slovenian Government has decided to approve this project, just as the Czech Government has decided to do, and they are planning to implement an electronic accounting system in Slovenia. So it is not only a question of the Czech Republic, but it seems that the success of the Croatian model is and will be an inspiration for other countries. I know that even in some other countries, where they are still applying the technologically older model of registration cash registers, they are thinking of switching to online sales registration, that registration of sales in registration cash registers is essentially decentralised and the Croatian system seems to be significantly more technologically progressive. As regards the question of costs, I would like to mention the fact that we are counting on the draft bill under which the taxpayer of income tax on natural persons who are obliged to start registering sales under the e-booking of sales in a given year could apply a tax discount of CZK 5 000 on one occasion. This means that the government's aim is to contribute to compensation for costs incurred by one-time entrepreneurs by joining the e-booking system of sales. At the same time, I must say that the effect estimated by the Ministry of Finance is an important effect for increasing the revenues of public budgets. What is important is that this effect does not occur by increasing tax rates, but by reducing dishonesty, reducing fraud, and correcting conditions in the business environment. I think that the opposition, which constantly criticises the proposal for the introduction of electronic sales records, ignores one of its key aspects, and that is to remedy today's situation where part of the taxpayers pay taxes by paying taxes, so of course they also have to project it into prices, and then there is part of the entrepreneurs who do not pay taxes and also that they do not pay taxes. And here comes an unfair, unequal competitive environment. And we do not agree with the long-term functioning of business entities that gain market advantage by cheating on the state, failing to comply with their obligations, failing to comply with laws and paying taxes. So the system of electronic sales records where it will be introduced and we're talking about restaurants, we're talking about accommodation, we're talking about retail, we're talking about wholesale, so he should be able to achieve that not only the revenue of the state will increase, tax evasion will be reduced, but also the business environment should be equalized. But the government is aware of the fact that entrepreneurs will have some expenses to purchase this system, so we are also prepared to take this into account so that they can deduct these expenses as a revenue tax discount, one time in the amount of CZK 5 000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u22	I have another table for the Prime Minister. [[It shows another sign with a simple table.]] Because he's feeding us something we don't want. We're after fair tax control. And if the Treasury estimates, they probably know where the dishonest ones are. And he's got 15,000 tax employees. However, Prime Minister, I didn't ask you where you were going and where all the cash registers were introduced east of us. I asked you how many calculations the 12.5 billion were based on, and I was talking about operating expenses 2.5 billion a year. I wasn't talking about acquisition expenses. You're saying you're going to propose a 5,000 tax deduction, but I've quoted to you that the middle-- based on your material-- there's one cashier from 9,700 and there's an estimated 450,000 for a medium-sized company. Well, it's very nice that instead of 450,000, it's going to be 445,000. But I want to get back to those tax returns. Have you seen Croatia's tax returns? Did you see the numbers and how much tax revenue went up? We have different numbers and they're from the Parliamentary Institute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u24	I am convinced of this, and those figures and estimates from the Ministry of Finance show that there will be an increase in income tax collection, there will be an increase in value added tax and, of course, there will also be a follow-up increase in social and health insurance contributions where it depends on the income tax base. Of course, the measures that should be implemented have led to an increase in the collection of value added tax in Croatia. At the same time in Croatia it was also greatly compensated by the reduction in the value added tax rate for restaurants. The compensation we propose in the Czech Republic will have budgetary implications of about half a billion crowns. This concerns a possible reduction in the tax on restaurants, a reduction in value added tax, and we assume that even if we deduct this reduction in the tax on restaurants as a result of a reduced rate, this will in any case be a significant plus operation for public budgets. And we are not just talking about income tax and value added tax, where we identify the greatest potential for reducing this tax in the areas that I have talked about, but we are also talking about follow-up contributions in the field of health and social insurance, which, of course, will help to stabilise the pension account, which has been mentioned very often in the Chamber of Deputies in recent days, and of course it will also contribute to the stabilisation of the health insurance system. [[15.00 hours]] Only the countries that are inspired by Croatia. At this point, it is Slovenia and the Czech Republic, but I would like to remind you that register registers, including Slovakia, are operating in a number of countries in the European Union. Treasury registers that have fiscal memory to which all transactions are recorded and financial authorities control individual fiscal memories in individual register cash registers. I believe that the system of online registration on one server of the Ministry of Finance, in one place, is much more progressive and reduces in fact the costs of tax administration to control the system of records of sales.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpelate Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka about the expansion of Ruzyna airport, will bring the fourth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, my interpellation today is simple. Certainly to the joy of colleagues and colleagues who are about to give me their own interview, very brief. It rests on the following question: How does your government react to the expansion of Ruzyne Airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u27	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister, how does your government feel about expanding the airport?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u28	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I know from the past that there is a discussion here about the possible construction of a parallel runway at Prague airport in the context of an increase in air transport not only in the Czech Republic, but I must say that I have been Prime Minister for about 14 months and I have not been directly confronted with this subject during that time. So if this has not happened in the last 14 months, then I feel that this will clearly not be the priority of Prague Airport and that probably at this time, as I quickly gathered the documents in response to your interpellation, the development study of the entire area of the airport should be updated at this time, so this year the intention is to update the development study of the entire area of the airport, not only for air traffic but also for air activities in relation to its surrounding area. This means that this study should cover the development of the entire surrounding area in cooperation with the Central Bohemia Region and with all the entities concerned. As part of this development study, the airport's transport service should also be addressed. On the basis of this study, then, according to my information, there should be a further decision as to whether the event will be at what pace. preparing the expansion of the airport by building a parallel runway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u29	Thank you. I beg you, Madame, to ask you a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister. For the time being, this answer to the airport issue is enough for me. I will use my time for the following question. Twelve of the 24 interviews to the Prime Minister today have coalition MPs. Eleven out of 26 last time she had an interview and a meeting in March 10 of 20. It will therefore not be an exaggeration if I say that approximately 50 per cent of the applications to the Prime Minister are submitted by coalition MPs. I respect their right to intervene; in a number of situations, they are an instrument that even coalition Members need. However, at least in the case of an interview by a colleague from ČSSD, I would like to appeal to you if you could say so at the club. If not, there seems to be a problem in communication. In this context, I would like to ask you whether it would be worth extending the interpellation until the 19th hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u31	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I am trying to go to the consultations which are intended for the Prime Minister. This means that we spend time here together relatively regularly and it is the right of each Member to give an interview to the Prime Minister. Perhaps the larger number of social democracy MEPs is due to the fact that I have unfortunately failed to arrive at the meeting of our parliamentary club during the last two deadlines. Perhaps we will also use this option to talk about some of the things here by means of an interview. But it's nothing new. Interpelations from the ranks of government Members appeared in the past, when there was a right-wing government in the Czech Republic, a right-wing coalition, so it is no new element on our political scene. And perhaps the interpelations by coalition Members will also help me to highlight some things as Prime Minister, explain some things more, point to some things, and also answer some questions on the basis of questions that are asked to me by both the Coalition Members and, naturally, by the members of the opposition. I think the system, as it is set up, means that the interpelations are drawn, is equally fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u32	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Jiří Valenta, who will interpelise on the opinion on proposals for state honours, will give the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u33	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, as I'm sure you know, the time of the award and the handover of state honours by the President of the Republic is rapidly approaching. Civil nominations show that after the event. The approval of the Chamber of Deputies has a certain chance of this prestigious award as well as very controversial Mašín brothers, in my personal opinion terrorists and insidious murderers, who did not even care to cut a bound, i.e. a completely defenseless person. I would very much not like to go into some extensive historical-political reflections and analyses right now. After all, there's no room for that. The majority of citizens, too, have a long-standing view. But I am quite pragmatically interested in your personal opinion, whether these persons, one of which in memoriam, should be decorated or not, and if so, for what reason. In advance, however, I am not satisfied by the answer in any way in the sense that this process is in the hands of citizens, the Chamber of Deputies and President Zeman. As a representative of executive power and supreme constitutional officer for me and the entire Czech public in this place, answer clearly whether you agree with the appreciation and thus political recognition of the activities of the Mašín brothers or not, without any unnecessary verbal ecvilibristy or moving the subject in another direction. Our public has a moral right to know the opinion of its Prime Minister on this highly polarizing issue, as did the previous Prime Ministers. At least the leaders of the right-wing governments faced this problem, even though they did not receive my respect in any way. Even in 2008, Mr Topolánek left to give his honorary plaque to the Mašíns directly to Washington, and Mr Nečas followed it up with a public statement in 2011 that the brothers deserved even greater appreciation. And what will you tell us today, Prime Minister Sobotka, about the Mašín Mašín' award?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u34	Thank you, honourable Member. I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer on what he will do so that the House does not vote on how the Members will cut us down. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u35	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the award of state honours is in the hands of the President of the Republic, so that is the constitutional officer who decides on this matter. Naturally, you can make proposals, the government can make proposals, but it depends on the president of the Republic who decides to award the state honors. When it comes to the Mašínův brothers and their story, again - the 1950s was not an easy time at all. I think that even for the Communist Party - and you, I believe, represent the Communist Party in this Chamber of Deputies - it is a period that has been very difficult in terms of interpretation. It was a period of totalitarianism, and there were people who defied totalitarianism. I think that not only does the topic divide society, but in almost every family in our country, you will find how political prisoners, people who have been persecuted under the previous regime, so you will also find people who have been actively involved in the operation of the last communist regime. [[15.10 hours]] I agree with you that the story of the Mašín brothers divides society, polarizes society, and I do not think they are suitable candidates to receive state honours from the President of the Republic. I don't think so, not because they fought against the totalitarian regime, because they tried to follow up on their father's legacy, who fought against Nazi totalitarianism, but I think that because of the methods they then applied in this fight. And I think that some of the acts they did were unnecessary, they were cruel acts and, after all, they were acts that were subsequently used by the propaganda machine against them. So my opinion is that if I were in the position of President of the Republic, I wouldn't lend them honors when it comes to the Mašín of the Machine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u36	I thank the Prime Minister for his clear answer. The Member does not have an additional question. Mr Petr Fiala, who will interpelate the Prime Minister in the case of the Service Act, will give the sixth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u37	Dear Prime Minister, I asked you last year in the interview about the promotion and exchange of civil servants in ministries in connection with the accession of a new government coalition, as well as in connection with the adoption of a service law. From your answers, I was under the impression that the promotion process would stop in the near future. But now, from the media, I have information that seems to be true that only in the first three months of this year, the government has released more than 200 people from the ministries, accepted new people to their posts, but at the same time, it has accepted another 200 new officials who will be virtually irrevocable since July. And now, at least according to the economic newspaper's findings, at least 257 people are working more than at the end of 2014. The biggest increase is recorded by the Ministry of the Interior, where 126 officials accepted this year. And so we could continue. At the same time, the number of officials in the highest categories is growing. It's sometimes preposterous. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the original three Deputys we suddenly have seven Deputys, the same at the Ministry of Health, three Deputys accepted by the Minister of Defence, there are even nine of them, etc. My question is logical. So how much exactly do you plan to increase the number of civil servants in the ministries by July before the service law starts to apply? How will such an increase affect the quality of the service for citizens? And above all, what's it gonna take? Because the operating costs of the ministries have already increased and this, of course, will bring additional costs to the state. And isn't debyrocratisation and depoliticisation of the state administration more likely to be concreted and its new politicalization here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u38	I thank Mr Fial. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u39	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the government has not decided to increase the number of tables in ministries since the beginning of this year. So we did not raise tables at government level except for a few specific resorts, with the exception of a few specific agendas. I want to mention the fact that we have increased tables for the Police of the Czech Republic in relation to what happened in Vrbětice, i.e. We have strengthened the number of police officers involved in arms and explosives control. We have also enabled the Ministry of the Interior to strengthen the IT department by several tables. Indeed, only in a very small extent, we have made it possible to strengthen the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Otherwise, any changes that occur within the existing number of systemised tables at individual offices. There is therefore no increase in the expenditure of the state budget because it is used for budgeted funds, and there is no increase in the number of tables simply because the places are registered and centralized on the basis of the decision of the Ministry of Finance and on the basis of the decision of the government. As far as recruitment is concerned, there are either existing vacant posts at the individual offices that we have inherited, or some workers are leaving and some new ones are being accepted. I also think that it is not possible to approach this in a flat-rate way, because if we approach this at a flat-rate rate, it would obviously appear that, for example, there was a significant increase in officials and a significant change in the Office of the Government last year. However, I want to remind you that the government has newly appointed a Deputy Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, and he started building his minimal apparatus at the Office of the Government last year. Likewise, the government has decided to be a Minister of Human Rights and Legislation - at least a minimum background has been built there. But with regard to the total number of government officials in the agenda that is subject to the Prime Minister, the total number did not essentially increase there. So I think it is necessary to analyse the situation in individual offices. At the same time, I want to say no to the fact that there would be some kind of general cleansing in the state administration in connection with the preparation for the Civil Service Act. We started very quickly to organise selection procedures for state secretaries. The process is underway at the moment. Once the state secretaries have been set up on the basis of tender procedures for their duties, then, in cooperation with the Deputy Minister for Civil Service at the Ministry of the Interior, they will influence personnel policy on individual departments and the moment when the state secretaries are established, the influence of the Minister on personnel policy within his office will be significantly weakened. This is a step that will take place under the current law. We are now trying to implement the law and from 1 July this year new systemization should also apply to individual offices. The new systemization will once again have to fit into the current budget, and I do not expect that we would be adding money to the ministries to increase the number of officials. I agree that we should strengthen the employment authorities in active employment policy and control the payout of social benefits. I agree that we should strengthen the number of workers who will exercise control at the financial offices. But I do not think that we need to increase the administrative apparatus in ministries and, on the contrary, I think that it is also possible to look for savings and try to function effectively. One final point. Of course, there will still be certain movements in the number of employees. I want to remind you, for example, that the Ministry of Regional Development will be preparing for a new system of drawing money from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme this year, thus increasing the number of employees, but increasing it by reducing the number of employees on individual regional councils running individual regional operational programmes until now. So it will also be a movement that will be shown statistically by increasing the number of employees of the subordinate organization of the Ministry of Regional Development. But it won't be by hiring new employees, but they will basically be transferred from the existing councils of individual regional operational programmes. So it's not an area cleanup, and it's not a general recruitment of bureaucrats to central state authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u40	Thank you, Prime Minister. I shall ask the Member who is interested in the supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u41	Prime Minister, there may not be a sweeping cleanup now because it happened last year. The exchange of officials was unprecedented. Never before have so many officials changed at the ministries. Maybe you don't even have to raise the cost of new officials now because you're 10.5 billion. CZK increased the operating costs of ministries - year-on-year. Well, that's an amount that might be enough. I still have my doubts, despite your explanation, about the increase of 55 officials in the Office of the Government, because I don't know what they're doing there. The Vice Prime Minister for Research used to be there in the past. There's the same agenda, there's the same task. I don't know what 55 new people are doing there. But so be it. Can I understand your words by the end of July of this year that there will be no increase in the number of officials and that there will be no additional costs to be incurred for the new officials' posts?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u42	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u43	Dear Member, you yourself have served as a member of the government in the past, and you know very well that every member of the government is limited in terms of the number of tables, in terms of the number of people he can accept within his office. And as I have pointed out in my response to your interpellation, we have not increased the number of their spreadsheets to the authorities. We didn't even raise them last year. So we inherited the numbers of spreadsheets, except, as we may have strengthened the police, from the previous government. So our government has done no such thing. [[15.20 hours]] I would also like to stress that we have increased expenditure, but especially in the context of increasing the salaries of public sector employees. When it comes to operating expenses, we try to reduce these at individual resorts by, among other things, trying to compete over services provided in the field of information technology. It turns out that the transparent procedure and opening up of the state administration to competitions lead to significant operating savings. And the operating savings will also be reflected in the coming years. So we're not going to do any general recruitment. Above all, it will now gradually stabilise the personnel situation at the various departments in relation to how we are beginning to apply restrictions under the Civil Service Act. I just want to remind you that we are the first government to find the courage to apply the restrictions that are linked to the Civil Service Act to itself. That means we didn't postpone it for the next government, but we're already applying those restrictions to ourselves at the moment. In the middle of this year, individual ministers will gradually lose the significant personnel powers they had in the past, and they will share these personnel powers with the State Secretary and share them with the Deputy Minister for Civil Service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u44	That was the sixth interpellation. Mr Pavel Holík, who will interpelise the Prime Minister on negotiations with the Polish and Slovak governments, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, as Vice-President of the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, I closely monitor the development of the foreign policy of the Czech Republic. I am pleased to see the improving position of our country within the Euro-Atlantic structures as well as the successful promotion of our national interests in the international environment. In this context, I could mention, for example, the positive development of economic relations between the Czech Republic and South Korea, which can indeed be described as above-standard. However, we certainly do not ignore the countries with which we share common borders. For example, I myself participated in the ratification of the cross-border cooperation agreement with Germany in the field of medical rescue services. We have excellent relationships with our neighbors, perhaps the best in our entire history. Mutual contacts and cooperation are characterised, inter alia, by a high link between state and non-state institutions. Dear Prime Minister, I am interested in the development of relations at the government level between the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland. You will have a joint meeting with both the Slovak and the Polish government. Could you tell us what priorities and objectives you are going to the meeting with? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u46	I thank Mr Holík for his question. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u47	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, our government is trying to place great emphasis on communicating with our neighbours in the Central European region. It will now be even more important for us, given that in the middle of this year, the Czech Republic is taking up the position of President of the Visegrad Four country. We'll be presiding for a year. Of course, we care that the Visegrad Group works very closely and very intensively. I consider this cooperation to be very useful. By operating within Visegrad, we greatly increase our negotiating capacity and our weight within the European Union. I must say from the experience of the European Council that Visegrad really has a very good sound and the comments presented jointly by the Visegrad countries in the European Council have a strong chance of passing through more than if we presented them individually only as the Czech Republic. When I talk about cooperation within Visegrad, both Poland and Slovakia are naturally part of Visegrad. This year we will follow up on intergovernmental dialogue, as has already been started under previous governments. May 12th we meet in Valtice with the Slovak government. But as early as April 20, we will meet here in Prague with the Polish Government delegation headed by the Polish Prime Minister. With regard to the priority topics we have for intergovernmental dialogue, Poland is certainly cooperation in the field of transport infrastructure, because we are trying to significantly accelerate the construction of road links, motorway links with Poland. It is the D11 motorway and the R11 expressway. You may have noticed that in recent months an intergovernmental agreement has been called into question, which is concluded between Poland and the Czech Republic in the area of border interconnection between the Hradec Region and Poland. The aim of this meeting will be to confirm to each other that our intention is valid and to point out that we are trying to speed up construction significantly on the Czech side. Another important topic is air protection in Silesia and the Moravian-Silesian Region. Naturally, the pollution that is there in the air does not respect national borders and not only efforts are needed on the Czech side but also on the Polish side. Another important issue is cooperation in the field of defence, as well as cooperation in the field of agriculture, as well as in the field of energy. Together, within the framework of Visegrad and Polák, we will work on attitudes towards the forthcoming energy union. I think it's important that we find a common ground here with the Polish Government as far as possible. Very briefly, with regard to the negotiations that we will have in Valtice on 12 May with the Slovak Government. One of the key topics will be the debate on the uptake of European funds. Slovakia has a similar interest as the Czech Republic in spending as many old European funds as possible in the end of the financial perspective or in the end of the financial perspective. Together, we would like to put pressure on the European Commission to allow us to draw as much money as possible. Another topic is cooperation in the field of defence. We want to develop a discussion on the possibilities of common protection of the airspace of the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Naturally, we will also talk about energy and energy union, given that the Slovak representative in the European Commission, Mr Šefčovič, is in charge of energy and the creation of an energy union. Naturally, we will also discuss links in the transport infrastructure between Central and North Moravia and between western Slovakia. There are some projects on the Czech side that we would like to speed up. I would particularly like to mention the construction of the R49 expressway. So so much for very briefing on the main topics. I just want to remind you that the Czech Republic has set up an intergovernmental dialogue in full format with the Slovak Government. In a limited format we meet regularly with the representation of the Polish Government and in a limited format we also meet regularly with the representation of the government of Israel. So at this point, the Czech Republic has set up a dialogue at intergovernmental level with three states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u48	Thank you, Prime Minister. These will be very difficult negotiations. The Member is satisfied with the answer. We will continue with another interview when Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will interpel the Prime Minister in the case of the Czech Republic in the AIIB. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, you must have noticed that in March of this year, a new investment bank called the Asian Bank for Infrastructure Investment was established in China, which, in its own way, competes with the World Bank. The apparent reason for its emergence is the instability of the US dollar as a world currency that is not covered by gold. In addition to a number of Asian countries, such as South Korea or India, Australia, Brazil, and Russia, as well as many European Union Member States such as Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Austria, Switzerland, are also found among the founding members. Poland and Hungary have also recently applied for membership. To say this briefly, everyone but the United States and Japan is already on board, but it must be added that Japan is seriously considering joining this bank. My question is: What does the Czech Republic say? Will we also seek membership? Or will we be obedient to the economic interests of the United States of America? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u50	I thank Mr Ondráček. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. As you have noted, our government paid very much attention last year to intensify our political, economic and other relations with China. I'm glad we did it. After all, last year there was a significant exchange of mutual delegations, and I had the opportunity to meet with the Chinese Prime Minister at the Belgrade Summit in December 2014 and we were able to assess the past year as a year of turnover in mutual relations between the Czech Republic and China. I am convinced that intensive contacts will continue this year, and I can also confirm that the change in government policy, which is focused on more intensive dialogue with China, has already brought us real economic results. Real results in the form of Chinese investments in the banking sector, real results in the form of increased demand for Czech exports to China, as well as real results in the form of joint engineering projects that will be implemented in China in the use of Czech technology supplies. So there is an obvious turnaround in terms of mutual trade, and I assume that we will be able to achieve what we have already agreed with the Chinese representatives, which means that at the end of this year a direct flight line between Beijing and Prague should be opened. We also expect a significant increase in tourism. We are also preparing cooperation in the field of health, in the field of health there are some Chinese investments going on here, etc. So I think the government is trying to pay quite a lot of attention to economic and political cooperation with China. Naturally, we are also evaluating the bank project that you mentioned. Just for comparison, the Asian Development Bank, which works, has a capital of approximately 160 billion. dollars. The World Bank has about 500 billion capital. USD and the new ALLB bank envisages roughly 50 billion capital for starters. dollars. The truth is that many European economies, including Germany, Great Britain and France, have already applied to the new Asian bank. The Czech Republic will assess whether our participation in this project is economically advantageous for the Czech Republic in the coming weeks. It is at the Ministry of Finance to submit relevant material to the government and recommend further procedure. I think it is necessary for us to measure the possible amount of our deposit that we would have to deposit in this bank, with a possible profit that the Czech Republic could gain from participating in this bank in the coming months and years from the point of view of its participation in the Asian market. So we need to consider carefully whether our potential participation in this bank's project will open up any other new possibilities for our Asian market companies to take place. I want to remind you that, of course, we, within the framework of active economic diplomacy, are trying to strengthen relations with strong Asian economies. In addition to China, I would also like to mention the Republic of Korea, where we have achieved significant success in terms of the influx of new Korean investments in the Czech Republic. And I do not think that it can be definitively stated at this time whether the membership of the AllB is beneficial for the Czech Republic or not. We need a more detailed analysis of the Ministry of Finance here, and I assume the Ministry of Finance will come to the government's meeting with this kind of analysis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u52	The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister. Of course, what are our foreign relations with the People's Republic of China, and your list is known, of course. I'm only asking one follow-up question. Try telling me the horizon when the Treasury will be able to evaluate it. If we don't sleep again. If it is able to evaluate France, England and other big economies like Germany, what are we waiting for? So just try telling me the time horizon. A month, two, six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u54	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u55	Thank you. Dear Member, with regard to the mentioned Asian Bank for Infrastructure Investment, I assume that this consideration should take place within weeks, at most months. So it shouldn't be a long time. I expect the Ministry of Finance to come up with the analytical material and the proposal for a further procedure in terms of competence. And I just want to remind you that the trend of Chinese investors joining the Czech Republic is relatively strong, because already three Chinese banks have shown an interest in opening their branch here in Prague, which means in the Czech Republic as the natural center of the Central European region. So there is an increase in the interest of the Chinese financial sector in the Czech Republic, in Central Europe. The question is whether the possible accession of the Czech Republic to the Asian Bank for Infrastructure Investment will bring us new possibilities if it will be any new interesting synergies. Here you have to wait for the results of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u56	We are coming to the ninth interview, when Mrs Pavlína Nytrová will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of current developments in the register of contracts. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u57	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the publication of contracts, invoices and orders, and thus the extension of the circle of persons and institutions that will be able to participate in public, even if only informal control, is essential, as experience so far shows that existing institutionalised control mechanisms are not sufficiently effective. Their addition to the elements of public control on the management of state, regions, municipalities and other bodies is therefore highly desirable. I would like to hear from you about the current state of preparation of the register of contracts, an important anti-corruption instrument which increases the transparency of the public administration. The media has been reported that there has been an agreement between coalition partners on the publication of contracts and the introduction of the so-called the register of contracts. In this respect, I would like to ask what are the parameters of future legislation and when we will see the introduction of this register. Will the compulsory publication of contracts also affect small municipalities? An analysis of the estimated effects of the introduction of a compulsory register of contracts on city and municipality budgets is certainly being prepared. Could you introduce us to this analysis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u58	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister, what about the contract register?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u59	Thank you. Madam, as regards the register of treaties, it is tabled in the form of a parliamentary motion by the Chamber of Deputies. We agreed at the level of the government coalition that we would prepare a comprehensive amendment to the draft law on the register of contracts. I can inform you that the comprehensive amendment is already ready, which means the coalition has reached a final consensus in recent weeks on what specific parameters the amendment should have contained. Therefore, if we are able to enforce this proposal here in the Chamber of Deputies, which should not be a major problem in view of the number of votes of coalition Members, the law could take effect on 1 July 2016 and subsequently sanctions for inefficiency and cancellation of the non-publication contract should be applied from 1 July 2017. That's a possible timetable. As to what a comprehensive amendment looks like, what should be done, I would like to state that contracts and their metadata should be published in the register of contracts, i.e. basic information on these contracts. The proposal contains a catalogue of the obliged entities to which the law is to apply, i.e. State, local authorities and other public corporations connected with them property or otherwise. A derogation from the obligation to publish a contract is provided in particular for a contract where the value of its subject matter is 50 thousand. CZK without tax or lower, and for contracts concluded with natural persons acting outside the scope of their business. This means that all other contracts in this system should be published. The register of contracts should be an electronic public administration information system which is accessible free of charge. It is possible to protect trade secrets to a specified extent before publication and it is also possible to correct the published document. As a result of the non-publication of the contract is the inefficiency of the contract or, if applicable, of the contract. its annulment from the outset, the penalties for the inefficiency of the contract and its abolition from the outset shall be laid down for contracts concluded up to one year after the entry into force of the law. The objective of the transitional period is to enable obliged entities to become familiar with the functioning of this system, i.e. to establish rules for the publication of contracts and not directly exposed to the risk of sanctioning the invalidity of the contract. [[15.40 hours]] The proposal provides for a two-year transitional period for municipalities which do not exercise extended scope, i.e. for municipalities of the first and second types and for their legal entities. This means that these municipalities will have no obligation to publish contracts for two years, once again, to become familiar with this system and to prepare for it. The only question that remains unsolved and which will have to be decided either by the coalition or by the Chamber of Deputies is which department will be the registry administrator. It appears to us to be the most suitable two options: either to be the Ministry of Regional Development, which could use existing information systems relating to public procurement, or possibly to be the Ministry of the Interior. So the parliamentary proposal is presented with these two options so far. In addition to the fact that a comprehensive amendment is being prepared for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to inform you that we have already started publishing the contract without this law at the level of ministries and central authorities of the state administration, i.e. that the vast majority of ministries and central offices are already publishing all newly concluded contracts above CZK 50,000. Specifically, the Office of the Government has published these contracts since 1 January this year and other departments and central authorities have gradually joined. So the state administration at the level of the central government is already preparing for a new system and we have moved on to a transparent model and we are not waiting for the new law on the publication of contracts to be effective. However, I agree that the system solution is a register of contracts, and it is important that it is adopted and set in such a way as not to cause unnecessary administrative and legal complications, but at the same time to help make public sector spending in the form of these specifically concluded contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u60	The Member does not have an additional question. Mr Ladislav Šincl, who will interpel the Prime Minister on a visit to South Korea, will give the tenth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, you recently visited South Korea with almost 70 representatives of our companies and academic institutions. It is probably because South Korea has become one of the most important partners the Czech Republic has in Asia. Czech-Korean relations have developed very dynamically in recent years in the area of investment, trade and cultural exchange. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. managed to obtain, for example, an investment by Hyundai Motor in North Moravia. The result of Hyundai's investment is mainly the creation of so many necessary jobs especially for the inhabitants of northern Moravia. In the case of subcontractors who followed Hyundai in North Moravia, around 7,000 people work, so the Hyundai project created more than 10,000 jobs in the region and contributed significantly to reducing unemployment. I believe that Korean investors have positive experiences with the Czech Republic, which may encourage others. Unfortunately, despite this investment, the situation in North Moravia is not at all easy. In this region there are now almost 90 000 unemployed, which can be imagined as all residents of Karvina, Bohumína and all adjacent municipalities. For example, in Karviné there is a queue for one job vacancy at the employment office, where 41 candidates are waiting. In your meeting in Seoul, South Korea, with the President of the Republic of Korea, you concluded an agreement on a strategic partnership between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Korea. In this context, I would like to ask you what results came from this Strategic Partnership Agreement and from the negotiations of the delegation of Czech entrepreneurs with the Korean Party, and how your journey will help the Czech economy and, above all, whether it will result in the acquisition of new investors in North Moravia so that unemployment can finally decrease here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u62	I thank Mr Šincl, Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u63	Thank you. Dear Member, as I mentioned earlier in my reply to the interpelation, we are trying to concentrate as much as possible as the government to promote economic growth. This also includes support for exports and support for economic diplomacy. We see two key countries in Asia. Of course, I don't want to underestimate relations with the others, but I see two strong economies that are very interesting to us. The first is the Chinese economy, and the second is the economy of the Republic of Korea. We managed to obtain two very important Korean investments in the Czech Republic last year, in the first year of the government. One investment by Nexen should create about a thousand jobs in the Ústí Region. A second investment should create less than a thousand jobs. It's a Hyundai Mobis investment in the Mošnov industrial zone. It should create less than a thousand jobs in the Moravian-Silesian region. As I am informed, the interest of these two large Korean companies will naturally lead to attention being paid to the Czech Republic by other Korean companies and other Korean investors. We are trying to make the most of the situation, say, the intensified and awakened interest of the Republic of Korea in Bohemia, the Czech Republic. Our government opened a new branch of CzechInvest in Seoul, i.e. there will be directly one CzechInvest employee to provide on-the-spot support for mutual trade and, above all, support for potential Korean investments. I am very pleased that tourism has also achieved a significant turnaround. The flow of Korean tourists to the Czech Republic increased by more than 20 percent year on year last year, which I think is a very good result and it also has to do with the fact that a direct line between Prague and Seoul has been established. We have actually concluded an agreement with the President of the Republic of Korea on a certain strategic partnership between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Korea. It also envisages intensifying mutual political relations. I just want to remind you that my trip to Korea last year was the first premier visit to Korea after 14 years. So it's obvious here that the space that was used to strengthen mutual contacts wasn't fully used. In fact, the last Prime Minister to visit the Republic of Korea was Miloš Zeman before me in 2001. So here I think there is a great deal of room for strengthening political dialogue. I invited the President of the Republic of Korea to visit the Czech Republic. I firmly believe he's coming this year. Its delegation should also include a very strong business group. I suppose there could also be other interested parties in direct investment in the Czech Republic. I would also like to remind you that my delegation in Korea included 49 representatives of Czech companies and the business forum that we organized, more than 130 important representatives of the private and state sector from the Republic of Korea took part. So the visit also led to a significant intensifying of mutual contacts. Some specific contracts were also signed during the visit concerning the delivery of our goods to the Republic of Korea. I believe that intensive targeted support for trade relations, economic diplomacy, those interested in investment in the Czech Republic should produce concrete results. They should also touch the Moravian-Silesian region. What I see as important is that in the Moravian-Silesian region we have ready areas for new investments, and also the activity of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in building a new industrial zone in the immediate vicinity of Karvina, so that we can meet demand for areas for new industrial investments and at the same time create jobs in the district, which is still affected by one of the biggest unemployment in the Czech Republic. [[15.50 hours]] Of course, it is positive that unemployment in the Czech Republic is falling, decreased by more than one percent year on year, but we still have Karvina, Ústí nad Labem, Most and some others that have high-average unemployment, and there the government must pay special attention. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u64	The Member is very pleased with your answer. With another eleventh interview, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the conflict of interests of the Minister of Finance, is now coming. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u65	Thank you for the floor. vážený Prime Minister, your first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, among other activities, is also the owner of the Mafra label, which is published by the former prestigious daily Mladá fronta and Lidové noviny. This publishing house organizes commercial events where it invites business entities to conferences with important personalities and receives considerable funding for their participation. The fact that the Minister of Finance participates in these events and thus helps commercial activities of his division is a matter of his taste, but the fact that state companies or companies with state participation, where the Minister of Finance exercises ownership rights, are also involved in these conferences is a flagrant and oriental and disgusting conflict of interest. Here it just happens that businesses controlled by the Minister of Finance contribute to the private business of factory owner Babiš. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what measures you will take to prevent something so disgusting and unacceptable in Europe, first of all, and what measures you will take to order the Minister of Finance Babiš to order factory Babiš to make sure that the state companies return the money - that his Mafra publishing house returns the money to the state companies. I think tax breaks and billions of subsidies could be enough. He doesn't have to steal from state-owned enterprises for the benefit of his private business. Your statement, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u66	I thank Mr Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u67	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I have recorded information in the media regarding the fact that some state companies operate as partners of Mafra. On the basis of this information, I contacted the Minister of Finance in writing and asked for information in this regard. I have received the first part of the information, and I must say that I do not consider it quite sufficient, and I will ask the Minister of Finance for further additions. From the information I have received so far, it follows that ČEPRO and ČEZ were partners of Mafra in the past, that is, it is not a partnership that arose now after the start of our government, but the partners of Mafra were these two state or semi-state companies already in the past. Of course, there was a change in the nature of the relationship at the same time when the Minister of Finance became the owner of Mafra, which means that there is a logical conflict of interest here, and I have already asked that this matter be the subject of coalition negotiations, and I think that we need to be clear about how the rules for state and parastate companies will be defined, so that there is no suspicion that the Minister of Finance is making use of the fact that he is not only the entrepreneur and owner of Mafra, but also the Minister of Finance, and therefore an entity exercising shareholder rights in a number of major state and parastate companies. In my opinion, more strict rules for corporate marketing will have to be set, and I think that the partnerships that engage in such speculation or give rise to such doubts should be abolished. So only very briefly as a reaction to your interpelation. It's not a thing that happened after the government came into existence. Firms have behaved in this way in the past, but I understand that the problem occurred when there is a personnel union between the media owner and who exercises shareholder rights for the state in these companies. I consider it reasonable for stricter rules to be laid down for corporate marketing, and I consider it reasonable for us to ask the representatives of the state on the supervisory boards to deal with this matter regularly and to ensure that there will be no suspicion of a conflict of interest. Perhaps just one more additional point, which concerns specifically ČEPRO. I have noted that there was, of course, a debate on the issue of the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. ČEPRO - in it the Ministry of Finance exercises shareholder rights, at the same time the companies owned by the Minister of Finance supply a significant part of the biocomponents that are incorporated into fuel in ČEPRO. I am convinced that we should agree within the coalition to increase the supervisory role of ČEPRO's Supervisory Board towards the activities that are taking place in ČEPRO and I am convinced that one or two seats in the Supervisory Board of ČEPRO should also be taken up by representatives of opposition parties from this Chamber of Deputies, so that the transparency of ČEPRO's behaviour when purchasing bio-components that are incorporated into fuel is clearly apparent. I think that the representation of the opposition in the supervisory board of ČEPRO could contribute to the absence of any doubt about any possible conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u68	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u69	I didn't ask about CEPRO, Prime Minister, I asked your opinion on a flagrant conflict of interest, where clearly state-owned finance ministers sponsor Babiš's private business. That's what happened. You told me you were going to step in, because you're going to say, you, you, you, Andrej, don't ever do that again. He tells you to shut up, or you'll get a shovel, and you'll keep quiet so you don't get a shovel. I thank you for your response and your political courage. Prime Minister, I would just like to point out that anywhere in a civilised Europe, this realized conflict of interest would be a cause for the immediate resignation of a relevant member of the government with shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u70	I'd like the Prime Minister's reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u71	Thank you. Dear Member, this is simply an objective situation which, in the past, probably no government has had to deal with. This also follows from what I said, which means that the partnerships between companies, including ČEPRO, have been mentioned here, between these companies and Mafra existed here in the past, but it did not raise any doubts and it did not raise any suspicion simply because there was no personal link between the function of Minister of Finance and between the function of owner of Mafra. The moment this happened, the moment this information appeared, and if this information is confirmed, the coalition will deal with it. My goal is to lay down such rules for corporate marketing that this conflict of interest does not occur and that there are no suspicions. So I will expect a concrete proposal for a procedure and rules, which should be applied uniformly in state and semi-state firms, to avoid such suspicions, based on the negotiations of the Coalition Council by the Minister of Finance. I stress once again, this is simply a new situation, which is due to the fact that the Minister of Finance is also an entrepreneur who also operates in the media field, and we will have to respond to this situation with stricter rules for the functioning of supervisory boards of state and semi-state companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u72	That was the last of the interpelations, because it's after 15.55, when the last of the interpelations to the Prime Minister may be brought forward. I'll read some more apologies. Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes today from 15 o'clock for work reasons and Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologizes for today's and tomorrow's meetings for health reasons. We will continue with the interpelations on individual members of the government. Mr Milan Šarapatka, who will intersect the absent Minister of Foreign Affairs, at least for the time being, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek on personnel policy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will give the first interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really sad that he's not here... [[- It's ready!]] It is, hello, Minister. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention, as I think this is a matter of fundamental importance. We recently passed the Service Act and I voted in favour. I believed that any law was better than none. It was a mistake. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the principles of this law are quite forceful. Dear Minister, after taking up office, I have given you great hope. I was hoping you could wipe out Augiášův's stable, which remained at the Ministry after your predecessor, and stop the crap that was being done in HR policy during the era of Minister Schwarzenberg. I've been expecting -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u74	I'm sorry, colleague. I think the vocabulary of this Chamber of Deputies should have a certain level. I beg you to respect that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u75	Okay, I'm sorry. I also expected that you would try to remove the consequences of previous party cleansing and rehabilitate those who were removed from the Ministry at the time of Minister Schwarzenberg's government. Unfortunately, I have to say that the work of personnel policy has not changed if it is not in the end worse than it was for your predecessor. One becomes a career diplomat on the basis of a successful selection process and a degree at the diplomatic academy. But what is the current practice at the MZV? This year, fewer than ten candidates will be admitted to the diplomatic academy. However, since the start of the new leadership, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already accepted more than 130 new workers, all of whom are exempt from the Minister's exception, i.e. without bankruptcy. It is so evidently because of the Civil Service Act, which has since 1. 7. severely restricts the reception of people who do not compete in fair competition. What are the qualifications of these people accepted under the Minister's exemption? It is usually close to the ČSSD secretariat. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] And they're not just ordinary workers. Let me give you some examples: Director of Property Management, Mr. . Kyslík and others, I can't name them here. I would also like to remind you that there is a department of active backups at the MZV, previously called. Eight hundred, where many career diplomats live, who have returned from abroad and have not been found a place for them. It's weird. Instead, 130 forward-looking diplomats were accepted for the Minister's exemption. What are their qualifications? How many languages do they speak?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u76	I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I've given you more time than half, although I've interrupted you. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u77	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. There were harsh words, as we have heard, to the address of the State Department and supposedly messy personnel policy. So first let me correct the numbers that were said here. I think it was rewritten from that article in the paper that appeared at the beginning of the week. So just to set things straight a little bit. Here it was said that I accepted 130 servants of the Ministry for an exception. I would like to explain: In the Ministry is accepted for exemption because since 2010 there has been a stop status, therefore, any admission goes to exemption. Of course, the stoppoint needs to be canceled, and I'm about to do that soon. But I'd like to explain that it's not like I've accepted 130 employees for an exception. In fact, the Secretary General accepted the vast majority and I did not sign them because according to the 2010 decision, the Secretary General accepts the positions of officials and economic workers, and if someone looked at it more accurately, he would find that the ones I accepted to the Ministry, which has about 1,800 employees, are actually not 130, but 28. And out of 28 of them, only 11 are in the lead position. I'll say it exactly - of the 50 places that have been accepted or where there have been changes in leadership positions, so 11 I signed and the 11, these are actually all the new Deputys, they're the new press speakers, they're all the functions that I had to replace during the year simply because the new minister has the right to make certain changes. And then there's another 18 in addition to the 11, most of them the secretaries of the undersecretaries, who also bring someone of their own. And then there may also be ambassadors that I accepted, but they had to be made an exception because they were ambassadors with political agreement, like Mr. Podivínský in Germany, like Mr.... I can't present these yet, because they're not yet appointed, so I'm not going to name them, because I think I'd be violating discretion against other states. But I'm explaining that they're not some secretarial staff, but they're official ambassador nominations. Together, I repeat, it's 28 names, but there are no secretariats. We can look into it later, I can even sign your name after name. From what you would find, if you really got to know what it really looks like, it would become quite clear that it is gross misrepresentation to claim that there is some rapid circumvention of what is to be brought into service law, because, on the one hand, the number of those admitted to the ministry is, I dare say, very low precisely because - I repeat - the ministry has more than 1,800 employees and this is actually a hundredth of those 28, who have been signed by me. It is what I think is common in all countries, that when a minister comes, he simply has the right to make certain changes, for example, at the post of a press spokesman or at the post of deputys, etc. And all of these changes, which I think are completely appropriate from the point of view of scale, I just did. And of course, according to the new service law, it will make certain changes, because in his view there will be a political cabinet, that is, there is actually a rule for how these new forces are going to be when they come with the minister and they are supposed to leave with the minister, how they should be employed. We're gonna fix it, too. I dare say that nothing as dramatic as the MP here has claimed has happened. Perhaps we could have saved this debate because we could have met at specific, really true numbers and even at specific names, because I am not defending myself, and because the basic principle I respect is that I am not interested in a party book, but I am interested in what this person is able to deliver. And I can assure you that if I find out that one of the new recruits doesn't live up to it, no matter where he comes from, I'll say goodbye to him again. If you can prove to me that I have violated this principle somehow, then you can talk about something fundamental. This is how I think what was said here was very exaggerated and completely untrue in a number of figures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u78	Thank you, Minister. I ask if the Member is interested in an additional question. Yes, please, you have one minute for the follow-up question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u79	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Basically, I don't think it really matters if the Secretary General accepted or if you did. What's important is that 130 people came in without any competition, while those who honestly audition for the diplomatic academy aren't open. Then there are active backups, or $8,000, where people come from abroad, and then they sit there, doing nothing, and new people come to their places where they might be useful. I think it's just not okay, and I ask how qualified these people are, how many languages they speak, how much diplomacy practice they have when they are accepted to important leaders at the Ministry. I don't think it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u80	Thank you for keeping up with the additional question. The Minister will answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u81	Well, there's been a misunderstanding, but I'm gonna try to explain it a little bit. Indeed, when I joined, I started with the practice of indicative tenders to all places and that is something that had not been done in the Ministry until then. And that doesn't mean that someone, when accepted for an exemption, didn't go through this selection procedure. It's just not like that. This, this axiom that was said here, that the exceptions mean that the system went by, it just isn't true. As for when you said they were supposed to be qualified for leadership. I said I signed it for 11 people in 50 myself, saying the rest was from the Ministry's own sources. Eleven of them came from outside, and we can tell each other each one of those names. They're deputies, they're press speakers, and they're posts, and we can come to anybody if you're interested, meet, and I'll tell you where the corresponding qualifications led me to sign this exemption. I suppose you understand there's no way to apply to the Deputys. It's not normal. There are several types of functions here, which I am talking about now, which are very few, where I think the minister can afford, and it is often also a policy that certain Deputys were named. I don't know if you want to talk about them. I repeat, the names are only 11, which means no 130, as it sounded. That sounded really scary. We can talk about each other separately. I don't think that would bother the House right now, because it's also a question of whether it's a debate that's useful here. But maybe we could've saved the interpellation, it would've been worth the meeting, and a lot of things would've cleared up between us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u82	I thank the Minister for his additional reply. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr. Miroslav Kalousek to the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u83	Thank you for the floor. Minister Babiš, as part of your business activities, you are also the owner of the Mafra label, which published the once prestigious daily Mladá fronta today and Lidové noviny. It is generally known that this publishing house is loss-making and tries to reduce the loss by other commercial activities, such as conferences with business entities, which you also sometimes participate in. It's a matter of taste, please, and I don't want to talk into it. What is scandalous, however, is that the participants in these conferences and in your participation are the state enterprises that you control from the position of Minister of Finance and, given that this is linked to considerable financial contributions, there is nothing to say here except that companies with state participations, which you are the sole shareholder of, sponsor your private media business. I want to ask you, Minister, if you are aware that anywhere in a civilised Europe, this action would be a reason for an immediate resignation. I want to ask you, knowing that you were here last night asking for many billions of reliefs for your business, that today we could read that from year to year, your subsidies to the state budget have increased significantly, whether you really still have to rob state companies that you control in favour of your media business. I beg your opinion, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u84	Thank you, Mr Kalousek, for keeping up with the question of interpelation and I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance for an answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u85	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put it this way. The Mafra has been organising these conferences for years. I just heard the Prime Minister. She organized this at the time when the Prime Minister was Minister of Finance, and she organized it anyway when Mr Kalousek was Minister of Finance. Let's be specific. When Mr Kalousek was Minister of Finance, his nominated director Čepra participated in the conference Mafry The Future of Czech Petrochemistry. It was May 20, 2013 and it was directly under Mr Kalousek's patronage. So I really don't understand what we're talking about here. I attended breakfast at the invitation of Mafra from the point of view of explaining the record of sales and the only state enterprise which, as I have now learned, was there CEZ. So let's talk about it the way it is. The Mafra has done it historically and has done it for Mr Kalousek and Mr Sobotka, so of course I fundamentally reject this accusation, and it really does not depend on these ridiculous sums. I will definitely recommend to Čepra not to support such events, although I am at any event that supported Čepro, and this was under the auspices of the Ministry of Industry. That wasn't under the patronage of the Treasury. So if it's seen as some big problem and the few crowns that Čepro put in there, then of course I'll recommend the Čepro not to do it. I just don't understand that this is becoming a big conflict of interest when the Mafra worked for Mr. Kalousek and the Prime Minister anyway. I reject it, and I really consider it petty and ridiculous. Because in such a philosophy, no one could actually buy a newspaper, no Lidové noviny, no MF today, nor listen to the Impulse radio, because it was probably also a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u86	Thank you, and the Member will want to ask an additional question in a minute. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u87	If you don't understand, Minister, it's hard. That's probably the same as if you don't understand why we all contribute five billion crowns to your biofuels business, even if it's true. The Mafra didn't belong to Kalousek or Sobotka either for Minister Kalousek or for Minister Sobotka. So when they came in and there was some sort of business activity, there was just no conflict of interest. While Minister Babiš now controls both Chepro and CEZ, he owns Mafra and can say nothing but the state-owned companies sponsor his private business. That wasn't before. That's just now. I don't understand why you don't understand. First of all. Two. If it's small money for you, I agree. You're tunneling from public budgets by an order of greater resources. But let the Mafra return them to those state-owned businesses. That would be extremely polite of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u88	Mr. Ambassador, your time has passed for an additional question. Thank you. The minister answers. He's got two minutes to follow-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u89	I'll tell them to give it back. Do you know what the greatest tragedy of our country is 25 years after the revolution? That this liar, this tunnelling, this thief who stole billions here, the symbol of corruption, Kalousek, it's written here, 20 years of his thieving! Let everyone read it! Let him tell us his conflict of interest with Hava, how Omnipol did business with the Ministry of Defense! It's all written here! Everyone here can read it. Someone's been preaching to us. Or Mr. Stanjura doing business on. [[unintelligible]] [[A voice from the diaper.]] So it says here how this Kalousek thief who stole billions here, and I'm happy to return the money to Mafra, but let Kalousek return the billions he stole here! Because what's the problem here? The problem here is that the 11th commandment of Kalousek is: You will not prove! Today we have arbitration against the Czech state for privatization of Škodaexport for 1.5 billion and there is a man running around Prague who says he gave him CZK 60 million or CZK 100 million for the privatisation and he blew it off! He still sold it to him so it failed. This guy's telling me something! This is unbelievable! Such impertinence!!! If I'd been through what he did, I'd be climbing through the canals. I have a conflict of interest. Everybody knew that! Voters, too. But Mr Kalousek did not report a conflict of interest with Hava when Háva sold ČEZ's solarium. He didn't even report as his apartment that he separated from Hava etc. Well, I would recommend, Mr. Kalousek, that you actually look at what you've been through, here, in 20 years. This was issued by the foundation fund against corruption. Everybody knows it. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And it's incredibly rude that someone's accusing me. Biofuel? Mr. Kalousek has promoted biofuels! [[Laughs in the hall.]] It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u90	You too, Mr Vice-President of the Government, have ended the time for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u91	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u92	That even you ended the time for a follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u93	Okay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u94	I understand that Mr Heger is making a statement of fact, and I cannot give it because the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. Another interview, an interview by Mrs Pastuchová to the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. [[Call off the microphone.]] Ambassador, you don't have the floor, please. No, the one to whom the President will give the floor will speak in the Chamber. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u95	Thank you. Dear Minister, Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues, my interpellation is: personal questions at the Ministry of Health. There could be a lot of questions about the chess games that are happening at the Ministry by June. But I'll focus on one thing. By being an original professional nurse - paramedic, I logically deal with the situation of nurses, respectively, in the Health Committee. medical medical staff in the Czech Republic. I am worried about their lack, their working conditions, their assessment, their competence and, of course, the education system of our republic, which I personally call chaos. For several years the Ministry of Health has been preparing an amendment to the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations No. 96/2004 Sb., which could solve a lot, but it doesn't look like it yet. I have already made several meetings myself, there were five in total in the regions of our republic. I meet with nurses, and in May I prepare a big conference on this topic in the Chamber of Deputies. There is a vast number of exceptions to practice, which, in my opinion, should be reflected in this amendment. Although I did not agree on many things, the main sister of the Czech Republic, Alena Šmídová, participated in the event. I had a very constructive discussion with her last Friday, which showed that we could find common ground and we both want to deal with the situation in favour of medical professions. We agreed on joint events for May.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u96	Madame, you will have to finish your question in the supplementary part. I can't give you any more words, you have to... I beg the Minister if... But you put me in a very unenviable role, because the Rules of Procedure are quite clear. Two minutes to question, one minute to follow-up question. The Minister has five and two minutes. So if you give up the supplementary question, I'll allow you to read the questions so that the Minister has something to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u97	I'm gonna give them up, so I'm gonna ask the minister a question. I've been informed that Master Šmídová has left because of the pressures at the Health Department. I would like to ask if such reasons for leaving a professional at your ministry are possible, and then I would like to know when and how you are going to occupy this place and when an amendment to the law will be submitted. If it's not postponed again, we'll be waiting for years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u98	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions of the honourable Member gradually. I don't know what was the reason for the resignation of the head nurse, after all, everyone has the right to end the work she stands for if she feels like she has other life plans, so I didn't quite solve the reasons that led to Mrs. Master Šmídová. After all, she is a subordinate deputy for medical care, Professor Vymazal, from the ANO movement. I spoke with Professor Vymazal about the matter, and I was assured that within about 14 days the position of head nurse should be occupied by a competent man. However, I must agree with you that I, too, was rather surprised and not entirely satisfied with the timetable for the submission of Act No. 96, because as I joined the Ministry, I was informed that this amendment was prepared, however, in terms of non-medical professions, there are relatively fundamental differences of opinion on how the system should be adapted. In the autumn of last year, we had a rather extensive discussion with our fellow Deputy Ministers and Mrs Magistra Šmídová on this subject, where I felt that we had given a rather clear assignment on which direction it should be taking. I confess that I was not entirely satisfied with the fact that I again learned in the first quarter of this year that there are still a lot of unsolved questions and that consensus is being sought, and once the consensus is found, the law will be presented. I'm just worried there won't be a full consensus. And I very much welcome the initiative in the Chamber of Deputies on this which you and your colleagues have developed. I think that the law needs to be passed, and if there are things that need to be decided, then after some very serious discussion, we will decide the matter. I have instructed that the amendment, which is basically ready, should be submitted to us within 14 days of the management meeting and that the standard legislative procedure, internal, external commentary procedure, should be in place. I think that even the deadline laid down in the Government's legislative plan, which means that the submission at some point in November, is unnecessarily long. For me, this matter is a priority because I think that the education system is unfortunately set up, that Czech health care is suffering from a lack of erudized nurses and that this legislative standard should help rather than harm. So I want to guarantee here that I consider this a priority, that we will speed it up, and we will present the law very quickly for discussion, and we will try to look for consensus with the Members of the Chamber of Deputies who are concerned with this in order to help Czech health care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u100	Thank you, Minister Němeček, and I am ending this interpelation. It is now Mr Jiří Koubek's interpellation to the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u101	Thank you. Mr President, let me first of all come to you. I've always appreciated how objectively and impartial you manage a meeting. I think you've proven that repeatedly when you've been able to settle your party's MPs. I think you've proven in the past few minutes that you're probably tired, exhausted today, and you're out of your league. I beg you to take your place because you didn't make order when the Prime Minister here insulted our colleague. I'm begging you to take your place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u102	My colleague, of course, it is possible for me to be replaced if you insist. I have no problem with this, but there is no way I feel that I have not arranged order by not silenced Mr Kalousek, who was shouting here without being given the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u103	Please don't waste my time. I asked you - yes or no. You're wasting my time. [[- I'm gonna...]] Okay, I respect that. So my interpelation's running. I have 50 seconds. I would like to follow up on what has already been said here. My interpelation is called breakfast with MAFRA. Dear Minister of Finance, I would like to ask and refer to your words that have been said here today that you will return the money. I mean, you, as the owner of MAFRA, will return the money that MAFRA has received from state-owned enterprises. So let me ask you, will you return the money when? This week or next week? That's the first question. And two: how much money was that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u104	Thank you. Minister Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u105	So this is one company, and this is the company CEZ. Where the whole coalition sits. There used to be your nominees, the healer, I don't know who you had there. Your politicians. Supposedly it is - a moment - 200 thousand crowns. So if necessary, I'll give them to you tonight and we can take them to ČEZ together. If Beneš opens the register, you can take him to the register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u106	I will ask the Member if he is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u107	Thank you. Dear Minister, Mr. Babiš, Mr. Media tycoon. I'm afraid it's not a single event, and I'm based on the information MAFRA has listed on the website. There were more events and it wasn't just about ČEZ. The company Čepro or ČEPS is also listed there. So please ask the additional question: How much have these companies donated to MAFRA and when will you return this money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u108	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u109	I took part in an event, the breakfast. That's what I was remembering. The others - I don't know, ask Mr. Kalousek, he organized the events, as well as Mr. Sobotka. It's been done for decades, and I don't see why I should be dealing with this. I deal with where I was at breakfast. If it's a problem, I won't go to any events, and I'll return the money that was there. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u110	That was the answer to the supplementary question. Interpelation number five - Mr Kubíček will interpel the Minister for Regional Development on the monitoring system. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, there has been a lot of talk lately about the preparation of a new monitoring system for European funds designated as MS2014+. My question to the Minister is whether putting him into service will jeopardise the police investigation in connection with alleged doubts about the selection procedure. If not, when this installation will be put into sharp operation and whether it is ready to start drawing European subsidies. Furthermore, what is the readiness of the officials who will use this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u112	Thank you. Madam Secretary has five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question. Although five minutes to answer questions about the monitoring system is really very few, I will try to answer all the questions that have been raised here. The monitoring system is currently ready for sharp operation and for the award of calls by the managing authorities. At this point, the monitoring system is being filled with data, which means that each managing authority, that is to say, the ministries that are managing bodies for those programmes for the period 2014 to 2020, must fill it with information from those programmes. Then, as soon as they're approved, the challenge will be announced, and the system will be ready. So at this point, under the Ministry of Regional Development, the monitoring system is really ready to launch into sharp operation. I would just like to remind you that the monitoring system was done again primarily for reasons, because the European Commission issued regulations other than in the previous programming period. In this new 2014 to 2020, it brought together all the funds, i.e. cohesion funds plus agricultural, fisheries fund, actually into one package. This means that the monitoring system has joined the systems into one except for the agricultural fund, otherwise all operational programmes, including the MIT operational programme and the Ministry of Environment, which so far has had its systems, will actually be under one system. It's easier for the applicant, basically there will be one application for all operational programmes. Now it was that the MIT had eAccount, the MIT had BENE-FILL, and we had BENEFIT for the cohesion, three other systems. These three joined in one plus with the fishing fund. As far as the police investigation is concerned, I, of course, cannot disclose all the details, as the statutory body of the Ministry of Regional Development, I cannot obstruct the police investigation, but this investigation should, of course, not jeopardise the launch of the system, putting it into service. However, this question also concerns the audit report we received, and last Wednesday, the Ministry of Regional Development responded to this report by the audit authority. Now, as an MMR, we are expecting a response from the Ministry of Finance to our response to the audit report. I would like to mention more about training, or officials, how many are trained. Basically, people started training after I started. We have trained about 1,500 people from the governing bodies to date. These are already people who can train other people themselves to do this system. So in the last few months, we have really trained some 1,500 people, and we have traveled around individual regional cities, and not just regional cities, to give information to applicants and future recipients. We have created videos where we say what the system will bring, how the applicant should apply for a grant and how it will be more friendly, easier for him. I tried that application because I can do BENEFIT, eAccount, BENE-FILL and others, so it's easier. I can really guarantee that. Of course, the question is, when the data is filled, how it will work. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u114	Thank you, too. I ask the Member - he does not want to ask an additional question. The next draw is Mrs Pecková. He's going to intersect the Minister of Agriculture, Jurečka. [[He's not present.]] So you're downloading, yes, excellent. Another winner is Mr. Zahradníček, who wants to interpel Mr. Stropnický, who is also unfortunately not present. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u115	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear absent Mr Minister, last year your ministry provided a subsidy of 3 million to the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom of Action. Kč. On the website of the Ministry of Defence was published list of associations and associations by which you granted the subsidy this year. Unfortunately, the Czech Freedom Warriors Union did not receive a crown from the Ministry of Defence on subsidies. On the other hand, the Czechoslovak community received almost 8 million grants. CZK including a subsidy of CZK 5.5 million. CZK for the war veterans care project. I ask you, Minister, why the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters, which brings together the direct participants of the second resistance, the participants of the national resistance, the partisans, the political prisoners, the survivors of the victims of Nazism - and that is all the more problematic, because this year we commemorate the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II - the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters has received no subsidy, which means not a crown. I would also like to know why the Czechoslovak community of legionary according to the list of mentioned projects should organize the commemoration of the end of World War II, when in the past the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters was among the important organizers of the commemoration of the end of World War II. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u116	Thank you, too, and please take the next one in line. This is Mr Adamec, who will interpel the Minister of Transport Táok. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to inform you about the construction of the expressway and the R11 and D11 motorway. Although today the Prime Minister spoke of this in the interpellations that everything is being done to speed up this construction, however, I have been remembering for 16 years when the completion is being discussed, and the fact of escape and registering problems constantly, misinformation about where the highway will actually lead, if it is important, is not important. I must say that lately I have noticed that there are attempts on the Polish side to dust off a highway known as the so-called Hitler Highway from World War II that should lead to the Rabbits. I think it's another attempt to delay the completion of the D11 and R11. I'm talking about it because I want to hear from you how it's being prepared. I also had the opportunity to negotiate with the Prime Minister that the Czech-Polish international agreement on the border crossing of this communication should be dusted off and that more or less... [[The speaker is silent because Members are having a loud conversation in the hall.]] I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u118	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u119	I know. When gentlemen are having fun. Okay. All of these attempts lead to permanent delays in construction. Highway's important to us. The international agreement should be dusted off with the fact that Polák are currently ready to lead the motorway to Bolkowa and then wait for the Czech side, and whether the possibility is likely that it would start to build in parallel with the construction of the direction Jaroměř at the same time from the state border to Trutnov. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u120	Thank you, too, and I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u121	Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for this question. I would like to start by saying that the R11 expressway and the construction of the D11 motorway are our priority, so we certainly don't want to question that. I would like to begin by saying that on 18. 3. 2005 was signed Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Republic of Poland on the interconnection of the Czech express road R1 and the Polish express road S3 on the Czech-Polish state borders. The Agreement entered into force on 18. 7. The two express roads will be connected in the area of the Czech-Polish state border between Královec and Lubawka. A comprehensive feasibility study was approved by the Central Commission of the Ministry of Transport on 26 June 2006 in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, which was approved by the Central Commission of the Ministry of Transport on the unfinished parts of the D11 motorway and the subsequent R11 expressway. 6. 2014. This feasibility study envisages the earlier construction of the border section R11 section 1109 Trutnov - the state border of the Czech Republic/Poland with the assumption of the start of 2019, taking into account the possibility of its financing from the CEF, which is Connecting Europe Facility, in the period 2014 to 2020, with the possibility of reaching by 2023. Another reason is the possibility to transfer transit from the Polish expressway S3 after completion of section 1109 to this route as soon as possible, even in the absence of the previous section 1108 Jaroměř-Trutnov. Section 1109 replaces the existing road I/16 Trutnov - a state border which does not have the corresponding technical parameters. Both sections 1108 and 1109 are currently in the same state of preparation. Buildings D11/R11 are part of the TEN-T main network and our obligation to complete them by 2030 at the latest, but we want to speed up this deadline. As far as the S8/R43 Rabbit road is concerned, it is the activity of Polish Voivodship, not the opinion of Poland as a state. This possible connection on the route of the historically planned highway Vienna-Wroclaw, the Hitler motorway, which was planned before World War II, is not part of TEN-T and is not monitored even territorially protected in the section from the future R35 to the state border. The construction in this footprint would now be environmentally unnegotiable and economically indefensible, because there are low transport loads. We are, of course, prepared to communicate with the Polish party at the expert meeting. The priority of Poland and the Czech Republic is, according to previous agreements, the completion of R11 and on the Polish side of S3, which are part of the main TEN-T network. S8 with continuation on the Czech side in any form can not replace R11 or S3 in any way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u122	I thank you and ask the honourable Member, he wants to take advantage of his supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u123	Thank you. Perhaps not a supplementary question as a thank you for this interpretation. Just a reminder that if this timetable were to be fulfilled, the main relief will be the town of Náchod from the point of view of the passage of the truck transport, because today's paradoxically capacity transition is in Náchod Bělovsi, and where the highway will lead, so today the capacity is not there, so it will help our region as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u124	I thank you, and I assume the Minister will not respond. Thank you, and the next in line is Mrs Nytrová, who will interpel Mr Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u125	Dear Minister, my question concerns the issue of paying VAT on unpaid invoices. The number of companies with bad cash flow is increasing in the Czech Republic, and not only in the Czech Republic, but also throughout Europe. In particular, it does not benefit small capital firms to pay VAT even on unpaid invoices. I'm sure you're pleased that your companies are issuing invoices to customers, but only until they meet their financial obligations, they will pay the invoices for goods and services. Companies in all European countries have problems with non-payers. A number of companies show an accountable profit, but as a result of outstanding invoices, they do not have to pay their liabilities. Many of these companies are forced to take credit to cover their liabilities. These loans must be subject to considerable interest. Small firms have limited opportunities to recover debt. Dear Minister, is the Ministry of Finance planning to introduce the VAT payment institute only on paid invoices? And if so, when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u126	I thank you for the interview and for the reply of the Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, under the VAT Act, the EU VAT Directive, the payer is obliged to grant the tax at the date of the taxable performance, i.e. e.g. on the date of supply of the goods or on the date of supply of the services or on the date of receipt of the advance payment, if it occurs before the date of the taxable performance. So the payer is obliged to grant the tax regardless of the payment for the goods delivered or the service provided. The VAT Act, as amended, allows to adjust the amount of VAT tax on debtors' claims in insolvency proceedings pursuant to Section 44 of the VAT Act. The VAT Act does not allow any other correction of the tax on outstanding claims. We still have cash accounts, of course, where the VAT Directive allows for VAT purposes for selected entities to introduce this scheme, which differs from the standard VAT regime by allowing the taxable supply provider to grant VAT to viable transactions only when the recipient pays the tax in the price. However, on the other hand, this provider is entitled to deduct VAT on acceptance of transactions only at the time of their reimbursement. The VAT Directive allows this scheme only for the defined heading of the payer and the criterion is the amount of turnover chosen. The Treasury, of course, has dealt with this problem in the past. It is, of course, a problem of cash flow state. I understand. You're not the first to ask. But, of course, we have to turn it down because of the fact that there is, of course, a major impact on the cash flow state. If someone delivers the goods and the payer is in insolvency, there's a mechanism for how to get to the money sooner, but it's not possible for the state to essentially implement this regime, because it simply wouldn't last financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u128	I thank you and ask the honourable Member if she wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u129	It's not even a follow-up question, it's a bit of a treat. I understand the state isn't up to it. But if the VAT isn't actually paid only by what the companies pay, then there can't be a spiral in here that these companies won't keep squirming around. We're not gonna solve this. If the state somehow found the resources to do so and spent it, I'm convinced that economic growth will start here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u130	I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u131	I agree with my colleague. I have a lot of experience with this. We are trying to improve the business environment, because the problem, of course, is the enforcement of law in our country. We've got insolvency mobs here. There are groups here that steal companies. We have bankruptcy mafia, etc., we're trying to fight it. And, of course, a lot of businessmen have been robbed. Perhaps we could also consider how it works in Germany, that once someone goes bankrupt, they can't do business again, and so on. [[16.50 hours]] We're trying to take the path of law enforcement, the settlement of the business environment and trust, but it really wouldn't solve the problem right now, and it would endanger the cash flow of the state. But I promise my colleague here that we are dealing with this and we are doing our utmost to somehow prevent these fraudulent cases where the businessman is actually being robbed and taxing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u132	Thank you, too. Next is Mrs Berdychová, who will interpel the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, according to the information available, it has been announced that tourism is a key priority for the Ministry of Regional Development. However, we hear reservations from professional organisations in the field of tourism that tourism is still not seen as one of the priorities of the development of the Czech Republic. The processing of the Tourism Promotion Act is still not completed. The hearing of Law No. 159 about the conditions of business in tourism. The concept of czechtourizmus is unknown. The presentation of the Czech Republic abroad is seen as very fragmented. Direct support for tourism from European Union funds will no longer be possible between 2014 and 2020 and national resources will not reflect this fact yet. Madam Secretary, is tourism really a priority for the Ministry of Regional Development? Where is this agenda going now? What's his condition? Can you outline current priorities in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u134	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the comment and, consequently, the last question. Yes, for me, tourism is a priority of the Ministry of Regional Development. And tourism is also a priority for this government, as evidenced by the efforts of our government, our orientation and other markets that we have been used to, which I would like to mention subsequently, and which countries we want to focus on. I completely disagree with the fact that the perception of the Czech Republic is fragmented abroad. It may not be quite the way to say tourism, but it may be other influences than really just the tourism agenda. However, I can assure you here that the Ministry of Regional Development, even after my entry, makes all activities to ensure that tourism is one of such strong players to increase our GDP, so that in a few years it may also become part of the industry. This is such a major objective - increasing tourism revenues. According to the jurisdictional law, the Ministry of Regional Development is responsible and has tourism as such. When I go somewhere and meet with many professional organizations and mayors and others, when I ask what tourism is, everyone tells me: build a hotel or reconstruct a memory. But it's not tourism. And so maybe even a little bit of a misconception by maybe some associations or other players in the field of tourism, what it is at all. Yes, the European Commission has made it clear that it will not finance tourism in the Czech Republic in the programming period 2014 to 2020. Why? Since we built hotels, we have water parks here, and that was not the point of tourism helping to balance our regions. Period. This is how the European Commission has been communicating with us for four years. We haven't been able to reverse this. That's just an opinion, and the tourism finances just won't work anymore. However, what I am trying to do at the MMR is to give the concept to the Ministry of Regional Development, which is there, but I would like to see there really priorities that the MMR will implement, which I have not seen that it has so far been done, and the other side is, of course, our agency CzechTourism. I'm not going to go into detail here because I think we know what's going on with the media. I am also not entirely entitled to share all the details of this agency at this time as well as the statutory body of the MMR. However, what we are doing there now and with the new CEO is that we are setting up a new concept of CzechTourism. It is supposed to work so that the MMR gives the concept and CzechTourism is an executive organization of the Ministry for Regional Development. It is that we will give a strategy and CzechTourism will help us implement it in the Czech Republic as well as in our foreign representations. What I am still trying to do, and we have only now been able to map out what foreign representation we really have. I have a cost table for how much one foreign representation is going to cost us. And, of course, I will also make some changes there, because we have foreign representation in countries where, for example, tourists don't come here anymore. There's no point. So I'd like to transfer this foreign representation somewhere else. If I could respond to a few more things - broken law 159. Yes. Because the government has agreed that we will forward this law to second reading only after the Ministry of Regional Development and already at my level negotiates with the Czech Association of Insurance Companies their position on this very law, because the aim of this law is to protect our consumers more. This means, on the one hand, that insurance companies provide insurance for our vacationers and, on the other hand, for travel agents against bankruptcy. The MMR, in cooperation with the Association of Travel Agents and other professional agencies and chambers, has made many concessions to the association of insurance companies, and our government has decided that we will not make further concessions. Given that I have just received information today that a certain insurance company has re-established an action against the Ministry of Regional Development in relation to tourism, it is up to us to consider what position our government will have on Law 159 and on insurance companies, which has basically shown us that they are not fully prepared to insure travel agencies and our consumers. I will not put a law into second reading where I am not sure that our consumers and our businesses will be protected. Next thing you know, the tourism bill. We have a very detailed debate, and not only the MMR narrow team, with the regions, with the mayors, we have plenty of platforms for tourism. I have even created a body of tourism, where we are represented by all professional organizations, including, of course, travel agencies, various other organisations, regions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u136	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry your five minutes are gone at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u137	It's just that we have everything planned, and I'm sure it will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u138	Okay, thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question. [[Mrs Berdych from the bench answers: I look forward to the plan.]] It's not like that. Thank you. Mr Holík, who will intersect the absent Minister Mládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u139	Madam President, dear ministers, dear colleagues, dear absent Minister Mládek, I understand that I will not be able to hear the response to the interpelation today, but I am pleased to read the written reply at least after the evening. I would like to submit an interview to one of our citizens. And as is a good custom in the Dawn movement, I begin literally: "Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about the present new energy law. Specifically, it is for payment for renewable resources, which is newly proposed for each ampere on the main circuit breaker. We are a small company that owns a guest house including a lift, and last year we realized snowing slopes. For this reason we had to increase the main supply of the circuit breaker from about 60 to 315 amperes. However, we use installed power about two to three weeks a year. As far as I understand it, the wording of the new law will be valid for installed power throughout the year, not for consumed electricity, which, from my point of view, is unfair and liquidation. The proposed system for paying for renewed resources is as if the excise duty on diesel is paid on a vehicle and not on consumed diesel. Please answer my question. Thank you."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u140	I, too, thank you and please the next winner, and this is Mrs Havlová, who will interpel the present Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u141	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. Minister, you know that I have contacted you, your Ministry and the State Environmental Fund regarding the second stage of the WWTP and the sewerage in Jindřichov in Bruntál district. You've been convincing me all along that the community has fulfilled all the conditions. However, the municipality was subsequently granted a correction of about 8.5 million. for non-discriminatory tendering procedures and other doubts. I assumed that you would examine all the facts relevant for the drawing of European subsidies. Whether it was the project itself for 125 miles. for 1,360 inhabitants and subsequent financial impacts on citizens. However, the lobby of companies to draw European subsidies seemed to be much larger. How do you explain to me today that, at a time when we were at the state fund dealing with familiarization of the council with the terms and final stages of the signing of the contracts, the paperwork was already underway. The construction site was handed over already on 22 July 2013 and the work started in August in the same year. In the following year the companies concerned only convinced the council to approve the sewerage and drawing of subsidies, and on billboards it states that the construction started on 31 August 2014, i.e. exactly after a year. However, according to the timetable of the works, the construction was not even started at this time. The extended building permit is formally invalid. It is clear that the construction was launched in a fictitious manner so that the building permit would not fall, and under these circumstances it would be a black building and additional building permit should be requisitioned. Minister, why hasn't the State Fund dealt with this? How did he address the warning that a non-voted resolution was sent to the State Fund, and the mayor does not yet have the authority to sign the contracts? [[Attention on time.]] That's almost all. And yet the construction is ongoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u142	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u143	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My loyal fan, Mrs Havlová, who we spoke to about the matter of the event - Madam, say, 20 times perhaps? I think that's for sure. After all, not only with me, but with my predecessor, Minister Podivínský. The problem is that the State Environmental Fund has actually checked the action several times in the past. Last time quite recently. The public oversight, virtually. Public control took place there in November 2013, then another one in 2014 and certain facts were identified that led to the issue, first, of the 10% correction you know about. It was issued in 2013 on the basis that, in the opinion of the State Environmental Fund, there was no transparency in drawing by electronic draw. On this basis, it was decided to issue a decision granting a subsidy for a reduced amount of the subsidy with a correction of 10 per cent. The estimated amount of correction was almost 8.5 miles. Crowns, so very noticeable. Nevertheless, it was still... The applicant did not identify the conclusions of the check but took the decision to grant the subsidy. Subsequently, the above-mentioned public control was carried out, which found certain control findings, but again could not be the reason for the contract to be abolished, but only proposed and proposed eligible expenditure of about CZK half a million. Then we talked about it several times, and the problem from my point of view is this. You're questioning the conduct of the municipality. You repeatedly question the steps that have been taken by the mayor, but I have told you, and unfortunately, this is still true that if the State Environmental Fund were to act on this, then it would have to be given some clear impetus. Be from the police, the construction office and other authorities. He just hasn't received any such incentive yet. I know there is an investigation into the Police of the Czech Republic, certain data according to your, say, findings and statements. Some of the legal steps that you believe the community has taken against the law. But we can act in this case, and believe that my colleagues from the state fund have been really serious about this, too, about my repeated initiatives, and we have already dealt with a number of these actions, but until we get a clear initiative from either the police or the building office that the building permit is invalid, or other entities, we simply cannot decide otherwise, because we could immediately be sued for canceling the action that is taking place. This means really, the project is currently being implemented. The implementation takes place according to the timetable and procurement documents signed by the municipality and the mayor of the municipality legally, and according to the supplier's statement the construction period should be up to 31. 10th of this year, so in accordance with the documentation and in line with the timetable. So we really don't have a legal reason to proceed at this point other than to give appropriate corrections, which has happened, or let's say we decide on ineligible expenses, but we have no choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u144	I, too, thank you, and I see that the honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u145	I would still be interested, Minister, if an additional building permit was requested, as I claim that the last permit was invalid, I wonder if it would be assessed on the basis of the current criteria, because the current criteria would not be met by the municipality. And the second thing, and it's quite clear, you all know well that we're in debt today over 30 million, a small village that has an annual budget of approximately 25 million. In 30 miles. we would decanalize the village ourselves and determine the price of an aqueous and coiled one. Today, you're going to set it up from the state fund, and on average, it's going to make us 154 crowns a pound of water. That means we have half a million for 22 crowns when people pay their debts. And as far as the future goes, I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u146	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u147	She'll be brief on both questions. I'm gonna start with the other one, or I'm gonna start with the sigh. Unfortunately, my colleague, the State Environmental Fund in this case is not an arbitrary of the correctness of the municipal decision in terms of technical solutions, and unfortunately also the burden on the population. This was based on the decision of the council that it decided to go this way, and we can, of course, speculate whether it is the most advantageous for the municipality at present and for its inhabitants. I can have my doubts about that, too. About your first question. I'm not able to answer it now, that is, if we were simply talking about nullification or nullification of building permits and new conditions. I will, of course, verify the matter and contact you, virtually. I'll give you that information in writing from the State Environmental Fund in the near future, no later than Monday next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u148	I, too, thank you, and now please take the next step, and this is Mr Nykl, who will interpel Mrs Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u149	Good afternoon. Madam Secretary, in 2003, the European Directive on overtime entered into force, according to which doctors can only work eight hours overtime a week, or 416 hours a year. The Czech Republic had ten years to adopt this directive and to actually follow it here. Unfortunately, it is also shown in 2015 that doctors continue to serve until tearing and no one controls this situation in hospitals, or the law is broken. I want to ask if you're aware of this. If the State Labour Inspection Office carries out these checks. If anything has been revealed, knowing from colleagues that this is a common phenomenon in hospitals, it's a huge crossing. And fourthly, if this is revealed, what fines, corrective orders, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u150	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u151	Madam President, Members, yes, the State Labour Inspection Office has repeatedly addressed suggestions and questions from the public and employers concerning the regulation of working time in various exchange and continuous operations, including health care. One focused on medical rescue services in all regions of the Czech Republic, so there were a total of 15 inspections, of which 13 were carried out in the grant organizations and two in private subjects, and other extraordinary events were also mapped by medical facilities. Again it was 15 checks carried out and there were 10 cases of 15 detected infringements. Five checks were complete. Here is described briefly only the total number of shortcomings that it was 39. Furthermore, our report states, I say at least as generally as we have done, that there were huge differences between the different devices. A total of only six cases imposed a financial penalty of a total amount of CZK 130 000. The most common deficiencies were the overrun of the length of shift, the performance of the same type-defined work in the other employment relationship with the same employer, the failure to provide continuous rest during the week, non-compliance with the obligations for other agreed overtime work, not keeping evidence of working hours worked, exceeding the limits of total overtime on average weeks, non-compliance with the rest between shifts. Every single deficiency I read needed to be broken in six cases, in five cases, in three controlled cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u152	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u153	Thank you for your answer. I just wanted to say that it's often said that health services are stable, that everything is going well. This is a beautiful example. That's just not true at all. If we are violating the European directive, the Labour Code, no one can say that health care is okay. Here you can see that the State Labour Inspection Authority doesn't work at all, because as a doctor, I know that this is a very common phenomenon in hospitals that we haven't been able to remove for ten years, and I see that controls are basically none when a few cases have been revealed, and if the fine were a million-dollar one to discourage it. So there's like 10,000. So it doesn't work. That's just to point out that sometimes we play that we already have the health care system under control, it's all good there, and it's not at all true when we're breaking the labor code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u154	Thank you, Madam Secretary can respond, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u155	I would just like to add that I will find out the details of why the total fine is so low, if I can answer that in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u156	Thank you. The next draw is Mr. Šrámek, but I do not see him here, so unfortunately I am forced to say that his interpelation is failing. Next in line, please, is Mr Ondráček, who will intersect the absent Minister of the Interior of Chovanec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u157	Good afternoon, Madam President. Dear absent Home Secretary, last Friday customs stopped near Rozvad's van with a Hungarian registration plate, and inside they found 15 young Syřan who wanted to get to Germany. They were all detained and placed in the Ministry of Interior's detention facility after interrogation. Now the foreign police will have to decide whether to return refugees to Slovakia, which is the country from which they arrived, or whether they will end up in an asylum facility. It is also clear from this case that the Czech Republic is in most cases only a transit country, but here and there it is also a destination country. Given the complex international situation, not only in Syria but also in other countries around the world, refugees can be expected to increase. By revealing illegal migration, by applying repressive measures against foreigners who reside in the Czech Republic in violation of the law on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, the Czech Police Police Department deals with foreign police services. But it has been the most decimated in recent years in the context of constant reorganisations and reduction of the number of members. So the question is whether this service is currently ready and able to face a possible influx of illegal refugees. Given that the police are talking publicly today about recruiting about 4,000 new members, I am also asking the second question: whether it is considered to strengthen the numbers of the foreign police. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u158	I thank you, of course you will be answered in writing. Now, please, to the microphone of Mr Zahradník, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u159	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the financing of Frank Bold, formerly Environmental Legal Service. On its website, Bold Bold lists both the Ministry of Environment and the State Environmental Fund among donors. However, as is apparent from the published annual reports of the association, which we can also find on the pages for 2012 and 2013, this association was not financed by the Ministry or the State Environmental Fund in these years. As we know, Bold Bold is the main guarantor of State Reconstruction. Minister, I would like to ask what kind of donations, to what extent and for what purpose were they provided by the Ministry of the Environment and the State Environmental Fund in 2014, possibly in 2015? And if it were to finance any specific projects from grant schemes, then my question is similar: From what grant programmes, for what projects, in what amount and for what purpose were these donations provided?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u160	Thank you for the interview and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u161	Good afternoon again. Dear colleagues, dear fellow Members, I was surprised, too, because when we were doing our current research based on your interpellation, we found that the last grant title, which was the company Environmental Legal Service, and possibly. its successor organization Bold Bold, actually received from national funds, so it was in 2010 and it covered the project in the selection procedure for support for non-profit NGOs and it covered consultation of legal advice for people harassed by noise. The total amount was CZK 300,000, I say in 2010. The project also ended, as well as providing free legal advice on environmental protection for CZK 299 020 in 2010. From the Operational Programme Environment, environmental legal service requested a project in 2010, which was not approved for funding. It concerned environmental education, improving the material technical equipment of the counseling. This year, Frank Bold Kids is asking for a project, respectively. grant for the project Development of the secondary school Sýkorka, but this has not yet been decided, i.e. again in the framework of environmental education. The application was submitted only 21. 3. 2015 and will therefore be decided by default in the context of the assessment of these projects. From the State Environmental Fund it was only one project, which was in 2012 and was already completed again. This means that we do not know the reason why Frank Bold is presenting the State Environmental Fund or possibly. The Ministry of the Environment as our current donor, and we will certainly also deal with this in terms of the use of our logos. Both ours and SJP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u162	I thank you and I see that the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u163	Thank you. Minister, you must not be surprised that this concerns us, because Bold Bold is indeed the main guarantor of State Reconstruction, and that is, as we well know, a lobbyist organization that is close to the ANO movement, which you represent here in the House and in the Ministry. So either make order, whether this association doesn't use the Ministry logos, as you rightly said, or look at it again, so that, by chance, through some grant scheme, the operation of the State's reconstruction is not financed by the Ministry's money or the State Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u164	Thank you. I see the Minister won't respond. Sorted. So, please, next in line, and that is Mr. Pojezný, who will interpel Mr. Transport Minister Took. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u165	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Have a nice late afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, we only heard about small drones called drones a short time ago in connection with the most advanced military technology. However, recent developments, which have made these drones cheaper, have contributed to their considerable expansion among amateurs. They often acquire these aircraft for recreational or personal purposes. According to my information, these people don't have to have any special permits on 20 kilograms of drones. I think, at a time when terrorist attacks or various mentally ill or disturbed people are growing, it's quite a gamble. That is why I ask, Minister: It does not consider your ministry, virtually. The Civil Aviation Authority under which this issue falls, at least on the record of these drones, does that mean that each drone and its owner is traceable? Or what other measures are you preparing? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u166	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u167	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Members, you are right. Currently, Czech legislation does not require any regulation for drones up to 20 kilos, prior authorisation of the Office or registration is not required. On the other hand, all regulations apply to these flying machines, that is, there is a requirement for respect for basic bans and restrictions especially in the vicinity of airports and at a height greater than 300 metres above ground. It's a big problem. We discussed this issue at EU level, and I also discussed it with DG Move's Director, which is actually the Directorate responsible for transport at European Commission level, and we discussed it at our office, whether and what regulation to adopt. What is quite an interesting aspect is that, as you described it and as I initially perceived it, drones are just a threat, the EU and, in general, I would say the world today takes the view that drones are a threat in their own way, but it is also another great means of development and I see great business and business activities there, because I think that technologies that will be based on drones are not only a threat, but are also a huge opportunity for business development not only in the Czech Republic, but also in Europe, and this is how the EU approaches it. At the negotiations with the European Commission, a request was essentially made to all EU countries to wait for what they would do as a compilation by the European Commission and what they would take as a best practice from other regulations for countries where regulation had already been done, and then we would all apply this single directive. Experience is that every Member State currently has its regulation of air transport, and to this day there is perhaps a 20-year effort to harmonise these air transport regulations, and it is a very complex problem, and the European Commission today asks Member States to wait a while. Today, it is a great priority for regulations to be made Europe-wide and applied, because it is a concern that if each national state makes its own regulation, it is its own law, and it will then try to harmonise that we will get into a situation similar to that of air transport. So the opinion of the Ministry of Transport is that we want to monitor the situation, of course. We have valid things today, in which it is necessary for any drone operator to meet the conditions that are in the law and regulations of the Czech Republic, but with special modification we want to wait until the European directive is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u168	Thank you. Yes, the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u169	So I'm just gonna make a quick point. I must say, Minister, that you have not made me very happy, and I would very much hate for any misfortune to happen just because we are not taking sufficient precautions. I understand that drones are some kind of progress, that they can be used for a lot of things, eventually those functions are described in Wikipedia, but I was talking about some possible threats in the form of attacks from disturbed people, or may be a threat from terrorists, which is quite common in Europe nowadays, so I thought you'd act faster and that some legislation is at least ready for the record to be clear whose drone is and who is at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u170	I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u171	I would just like to say that I am not happy about the situation either, but if we are completely honest, we are in a situation today that if we start preparing a law today before we do the substantive intention of the law and all things, then we will be in a situation that we would be done with the legislation anyway at some time when it will, I would say, be prepared an initiative from the EU. I just need to confirm your words. Everything in this day and age is, of course, exploitable against people who aren't really well behaved against terrorists. They are able to exploit any means that is registered and traceable today. Finally, the fate of the Germanwings plane in Spain or on its way from Spain to Germany is a shining example of this. I think in this case, it's just a risk that's given by the way we live in the times, and it's not gonna be worse or worse if we take any more steps. However, we're going to try to have some fun, if at least she's registering wouldn't be possible in a faster guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u172	I thank you and please another winner, which is Mrs Kovářová, who comes up with an interview with the Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u173	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, six months ago, I found myself under the fire of criticism from my time the popular Lidové noviny, due to my participation in the professional social meeting Metamorphosis 2014, where, as chair of the subcommittee on public administration and eGovernment, I informed the present about the current development of legislation in this area. I did the same thing as my predecessor in the chair of the subcommittee. Naturally, I took this as an information to the professional public, which is simply part of the work of politics. [[17.30 hours]] Two weeks ago, the event was very similar, organized by the Mafra. You were a guest politician with your officials, Minister. The media said they paid the present for their participation. Wonderfully, lidovka, unlike me, has not even written a line about this event, even though its essence is very problematic when it is best described by the term "self-fertilization" used by one political scientist in this context. Dear Minister, will you be terminated with immediate effect from attending similar events? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u174	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister of Finance for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Kovářová, I love you, you are the only opposition member we have any projects with. We're doing that high-school capacity in Central Bohemia that Kalousek didn't give you money. Remember, this is where I sat on the first budget committee, and you told me we were gonna take 300 miles from these farmers. And we're gonna put it on campus because Kalousek didn't want to give it to you. I gave it to you, we gave a billion hundred. You just talked me into the sights, so I told Herman we have to fix the sights! You told me he was splitting up. This is where you've been calling for a bad split in those parts. Then Kalousek told me I screwed up again. So I really don't know what to do anymore. I can't go to my paper, so I'm really not going to be there anymore. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm not gonna buy the MF Today or I'm not gonna listen to the Impulse, I'm not gonna do anything. I just want to say, I know you have an analytical department, and now you're analyzing. I'm learning about my companies from you. They're analyzing it, they're putting it in the paper, I'll read it somewhere, that's great. But everyone knows who I am, what I am, right? I'm transparent. Even the voters knew. Stanjura transferred the company to his wife. Kalousek had a company with Hava, we all know that, then he divided the... So I'm following the conflict of interest. The conflict of interest law defines what is personal and public interest. Public interest here is such an interest, which the functionary is obliged to promote or defend by virtue of his functions. For example, I am not the one promoting the production of biofuels. No, it was Kalousek first, but I think it is the public interest of the Czech Republic, for example. The implementation of European Union directives that the public interest is the support of Czech entrepreneurs. Public interest is to meet budgets. So I'm trying, but whatever I do, I'm being criticized. So you're actually the only light of the possibility of cooperation between the opposition and the coalition, like you, No Labels, in the United States. I'll be there next week, so we'll... We could do the vision together. So I'll do my best. I'm not going anywhere, and I'm not buying the paper.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u176	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member. He wants to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u177	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, I fear that if the Lidové noviny went after me a few days, it could happen to any opposition politician. And I'm asking if it isn't media abuse and whether it doesn't happen and if you can guarantee it. Perhaps in this case it would be meaningful to meet the government's goal of regulating the concentration of the media contained in the coalition agreement. I have heard that this law has begun to work, but the work has stopped and has been postponed for a year. So that's a comment on your speech. And as for the cooperation, I thank you so much for the sights and, of course, I hope that if I continue to perform, there will be no change. And if I'm going to say what I'm expecting next year, it could be local communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u178	All right, I'm gonna ask the minister for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u179	I don't know if your grémium or who wrote it, but okay, I'll do my best. Yeah, well, we do this review a week, positive and negative information about us, and I'll send it to you and you'll see how many of the People's Newspapers are there. If you read them, you'll see how many times I express myself as a regular reader. Sometimes they cut me short or say no. They even made a scandal that I gave them an interview. So believe me, it's not like that. But the media is a good topic. Why did you take a two-hour break tonight on that Czech TV when someone got off and we don't know what they were saying, the seven billion, how it splits there, the fees, huh? You don't know why, do you? And the servers that were created here. And who's funding it all. How transparent it is, the anti-Babish servers. It's multiplied here. Who owns Touch and the different ones, I don't even want to remember who it is. It's so interesting. I'm sure the media's an interesting topic. And that Mafra, when that psychopath Šafr was there and he fired that Macháček because he took the liberty of writing something about Klaus, and Lidové noviny went to the ODS Congress and wrote speeches to colleagues from the ODS. I know they're upset that MF and Lidovka have always worked for Klaus and ODS. That's what they do objectively now. I'm sorry, I can't actually call, I can't do anything. So try designing a law. Because I've been the biggest threat to democracy since Victory February, as everyone here says. Well, I'm sorry, everybody.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u180	I thank the Minister. Another win-win interview is an interpellation by my colleague Korte, whom I do not see here, which means his interpellation is failing. Next is Mr. Svoboda and his interpellation to the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u181	Madam President, Minister, my question is a little bit related to what has already been said here by my colleague Pastuchová, but it is far more grounded, it is not a question of whether or not we have a major sister. It's a question of if we even have sisters. The problem that arose was created in a special way. The vocation of a sister is a very strenuous and complex profession, and we have made it even more complicated by creating a different education system, and today we have sisters who are bachelors or magisters. Nothing against it, it would be very good if we actually created a work schedule for such sisters, for example, in some form, to substitute the space between the doctor and the nurse's care. These sisters aren't finding a job today, they're starting to lose interest, and we're missing the regular sisters. It is, Minister - you certainly know this as the former director of the hospital - in the hospital one of the most important care is the care of the nurse, who usually cares for the patient, who will treat him with decubits, which will override his bed, which will wash him. And we're not having them in hospitals today. For some time Slovak sisters have been subpoenaing here, it has become interesting for them today, because if they haven't gotten married here, what they're earning here is already in their home in Slovakia. I therefore ask what other concept does the Ministry of Health have so that our care does not collapse or lose on its quality simply because it will not have staff capable of caring for the sick. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u182	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a number of figures which our Department of Nursing and Non-medical Occupations at the Ministry has prepared for me as evidence of what the personnel situation actually looks like from the sister's point of view. They approached health service providers directly managed by organizations and providers in the regions. The results of this investigation show that approximately 2,2 percent of general nurses are missing in directly managed organisations. It percentage seems to be small, but it really is 330 vacant job vacancies. Among the regions outside Prague, 3.1 percent of the general nurses are missing, which is 280 jobs. [[17.40 hours]] I'm gonna pick up the answer here a little bit first, because I think it has something to do with it. I confess that when I say it so capidly, I came to it a little blind to the violins, because the system has been set up here for many years, and today we have the consequences of the state, as it is. And we all know that the inertia of this system is enormous, that any change we're about to make will bring about an improvement quite very late. However, I am also aware of the problem of driving around regions and regional hospitals, and one of the key topics that people are telling me there is: we have a problem with the number of nurses. That is why I have decided that it is necessary to speed things up and not look for an endless consensus that will never come, and the law that is prepared, the 90th time, let the legislative process go. I confess to you that even the information that comes to me as Minister of Health is contradictory. Even from our nursing department, it is information that, according to the European directive, there are things that would make it very difficult to get back to the original system, and I am simply not sure that this is possible. However, I think that the system requires adjustments, strengthening the powers and competences of those who will do the basic key work of the bed. And I promise here, I give the public promise that the law when we let him into internal and, above all, into external commentary proceedings, we'll put enough room in there even after the House hearing. I want to look for consensus, because I don't think it's just a political issue that would divide us here on some axis, but that people who are close to health have an idea of what it should look like, so I would like to, first of all, because there is a group of people who are originally health professionals who are very strong here, so I think that there is a strong team in terms of some professional erudition, and I would like to find a solution with this team that will simplify education, which will strengthen the competences of those people in the first line so that we can follow European rules and simplify it at the same time. That's what I want to promise in public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u184	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u185	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his words and for his knowledge of the problem, because the absolute numbers are what he said. But what's risky about those numbers is that the shortage is growing. If you take the numbers a year old, you might be on half the numbers, and that's just the trend that's here and that we have to stop. I have one more supplementary question, just one more specialty. It's a matter of children's sisters, which we practically don't have because we don't educate them, and we don't really educate sisters in the field of neonatology, that's the care of the little ones, about the ICUs. If you have any signals in this direction that something should be adjusted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u186	I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I do not know exactly how to deal specifically with the situation in both children and non-naïve nurses, but I think that this will be within the framework of this single package of the overall problem, and I will be very grateful for the feedback, especially from people with years of experience in these fields. I think we're ready to work very closely here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u188	I thank you, and now please take the next step, and this is Mr Berkovec, who will interpret the Minister for Regional Development Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant evening, too, Madam Secretary. My question concerns the new Public Procurement Act. According to information is discussed at the Ministry of Regional Development almost final version. My question concerns basically three circles: at what stage is this discussion, how do you think this law will affect small and medium-sized municipalities and whether a new law will allow, for example, the mayor of a small municipality to enter a contract on its own. Allow me to add my experience. I've been moving in the Representation of the Royal City of Slaný for quite a long time. Of course, we have the advantage of a larger city, so we have a very well-occupied union and the structure. We have a handy manager. It's not a problem for us. Of course, we also have municipalities in the region, which are very handy, which receive awards throughout the Republic. It's also due to the mayor, there's also a handy mayor, he has managerial experience. But there are municipalities where mayors are aware that the law is complicated, that the grant titles are complicated, and if there is any mistake that they need to hire expensive agencies to do so, and if there is any error or failure to meet the deadline, the financial penalties for them, for their budget, may be liquid. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u190	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Member, thank you for your question about the Public Procurement Act. I've been texting really fast about who I'm standing for right now. Whether for the Gestor of the Public Procurement Act or for the National Coordination Authority, which is also responsible for the methodology according to which it will actually be entered outside the law within the funds or for regional development, which is also in the Gesture of the Ministry of Regional Development, that is, municipalities, mayors and companies, or for example, IROP, because it is, of course, crucial for your question as well. So for everything. As a gesture of this law, I want to inform the timetable first. I'd like to say it doesn't just come from the MMR workshop. We have a lot of platforms to do this, we have a group of Members and Senators, where we regularly discuss the state of preparation of the law, because this law is of course very crucial for our Republic horizontally and, of course, mostly for the drawing of funds for the 2014 to 2020. The aim is for the law to be effective on 18 April 2016 at the latest. Since the amendment was being dealt with here last year, the law was of course a little late, but now it is done, it is in the paragrafo version. On Tuesday night we sent him to the ÚHOS, who is a co-submitor of this law, and now there will be some final comments. For example, we have some disagreements about the supervision that is in the ÚHOS, and I hope that we will be able to resolve this in the course of the interdepartmental review procedure. I would very much like to send the law to the interreort at the beginning of next week. Subsequently, I would like to pass the law on to the Government on May, June, June 2015, then to be read in the Chamber of Deputies, if, of course, the government passes the law, so that we still have three quarters of a year for the legislative process in the House and, of course, in the Senate, and then the President's signature. Our base, of course, is to meet that term on April 18th, because otherwise we are at risk of so-called. Infringement, respectively. management of the European Commission against the Czech Republic. I may have forgotten at the outset that the new law is being made because the Commission has issued new directives that bind to the procurement procedure, and we must transpose them into our legislation. That's why the law is made. That is the main objective of this law. And now for your questions about small municipalities or central municipalities. Since, apart from the Members, the senators, where there are, of course, also votes from local politics, we have an expert group. I have a college at my level, where representatives of the Regional Association, representatives of the Union of Towns and Communities, Association of Local Government and Others are part of it. We also discuss initiatives from mayors, of course, because we have six and a half thousand municipalities. We are the Ministry of Regional Development, and we need their incentives because it's the problem most for the mayors. Also in the context of subsidies and others. I would have responded to your last question, where did you ask me if it would be possible to enter a tender with its own forces. At this point, we believe that we do, because the law and the directive are such that public procurement should be simpler, more transparent. And more importantly, it's easier for whoever's gonna enter it. [[17.50 hours]] As far as the smaller municipalities are concerned, the law has several parts. The first part is the one that says what types of contracts are, what type of tender. The next part is regulating. It is also quite crucial for the mayors and smaller municipalities, because it will say the terms of procurement for sublime contracts, which is mostly the kind of tender that is awarded by the mayors. One of our basic approaches is that we will not force the contracting authorities of smaller contracts, which are used to specific procedures, to learn new procedures. In particular, if the contracting authority is accustomed to the procedure in the simplified sub-limit procedure, it will also be able to apply this procedure in accordance with the new rules. This means that the law will not dictate basically strict rules to the mayor, but it will tell him that it can also use its experience in existing procurement, what it has acquired in, for example, over-the-counter contracts and the like. What's the Ministry of Regional Development up to? I would very much like to separate one thing from our law now, and even after my arrival, I have looked very deeply at the law and I want to separate the law and methodology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u192	Madam Secretary, your time! Do you want to ask a follow-up question? [[to Mr Berkovc]] No. Next in line, please. This is Mr Beznoska, who I do not see here, so his interpellation is failing. I would like to ask Mrs Váhalová, who is intersecting the Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u193	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, nice evening. Ministers, Mr Vice-President of the Government, I would like to ask you a question about the regulations that are being prepared to address the pension issue of deep-sea miners. I am aware that, at the beginning of December, Minister Marksová has already submitted two materials to the government on this subject. I also know that your ministry, or perhaps you personally have raised a fundamental reservation against this, which can be characterised as a disapproval. Lately, however, you have somewhat relieved your position, and I believe you appreciate the people who are doing this hard work. My question, therefore, is whether and from what means do you assume that the costs which proposals are presented will undoubtedly be borne by them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u194	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. Well, of course, my problem is that I'm the only minister who has to get the money and keep an eye on the register. I have repeatedly discussed this. I acted in OKD. The problem is that this problem is usually solved by the companies too, and privatization did not go well here. It is standard that companies participate in such costs. However, after the analysis and interviews we agreed and I supported the amendment to the Government Decree No. 363/2009 Coll. That's what we agreed on. Request for another 3,500 miners, where there was actually a completely different number, where the trade union miners came in at the last meeting and had it counted to 4.2 billion. and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for 40 to 50 billion. We have created a group where representatives of the miners trade union, representatives from the Minister and from us, and they are to explain these numbers, which are diametrically different. We have to work towards the numbers in some way, because the tenfold difference is huge, and then we have to negotiate with the employer, because as OKD ends up, we don't know that, even though we are assured that it will turn out well, but there are still a lot of questions. We're dealing with it, but I'd like to be indulgent because it's not a simple issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u196	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member whether she wants to ask an additional question. Yes, it is. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u197	So I will ask if the miners can look forward to a positive settlement and whether you will actually seek a compromise with the MPSV, with the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u198	That depends on the numbers. Madam Secretary is the biggest assailant on our budget, the biggest appliance, still inventing something. It's too bad nobody thinks of anything in terms of income, I'm the only one. Definitely 4.2 billion. And 50 billion. There's a difference, so we need to look at it and find a match. Perhaps OKD will come up with the fact that it will also contribute. That would be good, too. Maybe they could sell the apartments, get something like Mr. Bakala promised when he bought it to sell the apartments to the tenants for $50,000, and now he's charging 50,000 rent. That was one group, too. There's been some mistakes in the past, and we've missed a lot of money. But we'll do our best, I promise you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-017-125.u199	Thank you. Since, according to the Rules of Procedure, the last question can be submitted to a member of the Government of the Czech Republic by 17.55 hours, I note that we have completed today's meeting by oral intervention. I'm interrupting the House meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow, when we will proceed according to the approved program. That is paragraphs 127, 128 and 82. Have a good evening.
