ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 38/2004 Sb., on insurance intermediaries and separate creditors of insurance events and on the amendment of the trade law (the Act on insurance intermediaries and insurers of insurance events), as amended and other related laws /house printing 415/ - first reading Thank you for keeping both the Minister and the rapporteur in place. Mr. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, please state the proposal submitted on the basis of the Government resolution. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on insurance intermediaries and insurers of insurance events. The aim of the proposal is to respond to serious and long-term domestic problems in the field of private insurance. The new legislation strengthens consumer rights, increases professional requirements for persons negotiating insurance, creates conditions for more effective supervision and, last but not least, brings together the principles of regulation with other financial market sectors. This proposal involves a partial transposition of European law, but it is primarily a national legislative initiative. The proposal was prepared following several years of consultation conducted by the Ministry of Finance with the addressees of this new legislation, i.e. professional associations of insurance companies and intermediaries, consumer associations and the Czech National Bank. The proposal has also been discussed in the past here in the House. However, the legislative process at that time was halted by its dissolution in 2013. From my point of view, the current proposal represents a compromise solution that respects and balances the various interests of the parties concerned. The amendment brings a number of benefits to consumers, without at the same time creating an important additional administrative burden for those who do business in the insurance sector. The current legislative activities at European Union level, represented primarily by the upcoming revision of the Insurance Mediation Directive, also provide support for the proposed measures. In view of the fact that the approval horizon and the subsequent implementation of some of these European regulations are still very remote, we prefer legislative solutions at the moment by amending the existing law. The draft law partially transposes new and extensive legislation on information obligations in the distribution of insurance contained in the Solvency II Directive. In view of the transposition terms, it is desirable that the Act should take effect on 1 January 2016. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the scope of the new regulatory and supervisory regime in the field of insurance distribution and the associated need to ensure sufficient time for the preparation of the stakeholders concerned, you will be invited in the debate in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies will allow me to request a reduction in the time limit for discussing a proposal in committees in the Chamber of Deputies for 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Dolejš to present his report. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u4	I also thank you for the floor, and I must point out that if the previous proposal has been made quite easily at least at first reading, here, given that it affects a much larger spectrum of different interests and that it is a really chronic problem, which has been consulted repeatedly, but the outcome of these consultations has by far not been defined as consensual, I would like to point out that this proposal is likely to be the subject of various proposals for correction towards what each of us is imagining. For this reason, I am also saying that I am not so sure, unlike the previous proposal, whether she has a mere 30-day deadline here, because the work has little validity. If the Committee on Budgets, as a guarantee, should address these issues within days, I do not know if it would be possible to do good enough work, and that reference to legisvacation reasons, e.g. preparation of appropriate certificates for intermediaries of those services, if they are serious enough. But we will, after all, judge each and every one of us in the vote. The truth is, of course, this proposal is framed by the consumer's interest, which is probably sacred to all of us. The question is how the relevant regulation helps this, whether it is the remuneration of intermediaries, the expertise of intermediaries or the exercise of the relevant supervisory and regulatory authorities. The situation in the Czech Republic is such that there are a lot of people in this business at different levels and in different roles, which is why I will probably watch very closely how we are going to do it, and after all, the insured people themselves, who have been treated properly in this not completely organized system - see for example. unnecessary overpriced, so-called issue. pyramidally accumulated remuneration without proper impact on the quality of insurance, consumer information, etc. etc. There should have been some self-regulation in this segment, and let's just say it didn't work. In this segment, the regulator, the Ministry of Finance, was to play an active role and the role of supervisory body, i.e. the Czech National Bank, was to be fulfilled. My view that this was not always the case is a little illustrated by the opinion expressed by the professional chamber, i.e. the chamber of intermediaries, who feel that those who have done so do not always know exactly what such insurance and insurance contracts look like and how it is done. Yes, the truth is that there are also transpositional reasons. The Minister rightly stressed that this is only a partial reason that a far more significant reason is the attempt to address our domestic Czech problems, and the conceptual alignment with European Union standards is partial because our sector is already largely in line with what Europe requires. Here too, it was reflected that the law comes with considerable delay, that the Solvency standard is actually quite old and that the next standard is already being prepared, namely the IMD directive, which should be implemented in the time horizon until 2018, which would mean that two consecutively, two years in a row, people in that segment should be exposed to certain adaptation costs. And the question is whether to handle the costs twice or once and properly. But I do not question the legislator's intention to make some changes, of course, but I think that the implementation argument is not that serious for this reason. What sounds from the environment of intermediaries is the question of how far the terms used here, namely the categories of insurance intermediaries, have been newly anchored. There's a question of professional exams, etc. [[15.30 hours]] Thus, it can again be expected, especially in the field of regulatory instruments, that there are numerous amendments and perhaps some less, that we have the same vision that this standard will be amended no later than 2017. So sometimes less maybe there would be more. So much maybe to supplement in the role of rapporteur. I would say once again in conclusion, we should, of course, decide to what extent we want to correct the original government version. The question is whether we will create a sufficiently comfortable environment for those who will primarily discuss this professionally, i.e. members of the Committee on Budgets, because within 30 days, the meeting of the Committee on Budgets actually takes place on 15 April. And in order to make it to the House meeting in May, there would actually only be room for a few days. Of course, you can work under pressure. But let's consider it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have an application with the priority right of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and then of Mr Ladislav Šincl. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u6	Thank you for the floor. It is such a nice socialist proposal to introduce further and further regulation. I say, on the contrary, I will propose not a shortening, but an extension of 30 days in the Committee on Budgets, from 60 to 90. I don't know if you all had time to read the 232 pages. Yes, it has 232 pages. Again, someone wants to have it done in 30 days with potentially negotiated amendments. I just have to quote from it. Maybe I could start with an attachment that says what every citizen will actually have to discuss with whoever offers him insurance or insurance products to sign. That's what the law tells us. Now I'll pass on what Section 21a is. And look what the person offering the insurance product has to tell the citizen. It's about four hours before he tells him. I don't know which of these potential clients is gonna listen for four hours about which company he represents, which state, and now I can read it one line of proposed regulation after another. But it really doesn't, and I have to find that, because it's rarely seen, so that there's a pattern of so-called simplified minutes in the law and what it's supposed to contain. [[He's looking in the papers.]] Basically, that's what the left is promoting. Citizens don't know what to do. A citizen isn't self-righteous, which is why the law and the state authorities have to arrange everything for him. In my opinion, by no law, if anyone decides to make a bad deal, you can't fix it by any law. I would like to ask the Minister why he is proposing to shorten the deadline for such a large law. He himself said in his introductory words that it is only a very small part of implementation and a distinct part of the law, that is true, is our proposal. We deal with this ourselves in the Czech Republic, nobody talks to us. So I really don't know why we have to rush, because my fellow Members from the budget committee are still in session this week, so we're not going to get to that. The meeting is April 15th, which is next Wednesday. Even if we wanted to make amendments, we still need the Ministry of Finance's opinions on them and so on and so on. Anyway, I have to tell you. Point 114 - proposed changes, which we are to discuss in 30 days. The following Annex is added: The circumstances of the simplified record of the client-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer-insurer. A simplified record of the proceedings pursuant to § 21e para. 2 contains only 1. marking of the parties, 2. a clear indication of the product offered, 3. the customer's declaration shall read as follows: " (a) I apply for an own-initiative insurance product without any influence from an insurance intermediary or insurer.' Can you imagine someone offering you a product and not telling you anything? And you're gonna confirm with your signature that the broker didn't tell you anything? I guess they weren't talking to each other. It doesn't make any sense. Of course, the one who offers the product will convince a potential client to buy the product. It's his job. He does it for a living. It's perfectly logical. Anyway, we're forcing the client to sign that the broker didn't tell him anything. And b) - that's the second thing that has to be legally there, I don't know who's gonna control it when they miss some clutch, some word, so it's actually illegal behavior. "I declare that I have been offered the advice to be provided by the insurer or insurance intermediary on the basis of an analysis of customer needs and analysis of insurance products, I reject this advice and have been instructed on the risks arising from this refusal." 4. Date and signature of the customer. I really don't understand. I would like the petitioner, Mr. Finance Minister, to explain to me what that means. Both (a) and (b) in the simplified record of the hearing. I don't understand what the broker and the potential client are supposed to write together and what those words mean. I have to admit, I've been offered advice that I refuse. Advice on what? And why would I refuse that advice? And what if I follow that advice? And it's legal. There's no way I'm rejecting or accepting. Please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, with proper application, Mr Ladislav Šincl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, allow me to comment on the content of the 415 press. I have become familiar with the content of the press itself, as my colleague Stanjura, 232 pages said, as well as with the history of his discussion, including the settlement in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure on this proposal. I have analysed the results of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure and, in this context, I would like to mention that I was very interested in two very important comments made by the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. These essential comments concerned in particular two areas of problems addressed by this amendment, namely increasing the efficiency of consumer protection and improving the quality of the distribution network and, respectively, improving the quality of the distribution network. the question of over-confidence. In view of the fact that these comments from the Office of the Government have not been satisfactorily settled by the petitioner of this amendment from my point of view, I note that I will look at these two headings in more detail, in committee discussions, or in committee discussions. as part of the second reading of this amendment of the Insurance Intermediaries Act. Because of the great complexity of the press, at the same time, I am not inclined to shorten the committee procedure, as the rapporteur has been suggested here, because, if I remember correctly, during the last parliamentary term in the Committee on Budgets for the press, I feel 90 amendments have been tabled. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u9	I thank Mr Ladislav Šincl. I believe it was the last duly entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. Before we go any further, allow me to state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 15.30 to 17.00, Mr Martin Plíšek apologizes. In the debate, there was no proposal for a return or rejection. Nor did the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion fall, but it was only announced by the Minister of Finance in his introductory words, so that is not a proposal that can be voted on. Only the 30-day extension of the deadline tabled by Mr Stanjura in the debate may be put to the vote. But I ask what we will do about it, because Mr Stanjura probably does not have the agreement of the petitioner for 30 days, but he can do 20 days without consent under the Rules of Procedure Act. So please see if he can adjust it so that we can comply with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u10	I didn't negotiate with the petitioner, so I suggest 20. I will correct myself so that it can be voted out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-008-019.u11	Thank you. Now we have a voteable proposal. First of all, we will consider the proposal for the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets and, in the context of the amendment to its Rules of Procedure, to the Committee on Guarantee. In this respect, I ask if there is a proposal for another guarantee committee. It's not like that. We can therefore vote that the Chamber of Deputies order this press to the Committee on Budgets as the Committee on Guarantee, in the vote number 150 that I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 150. From the present 164 to 138, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The Organizing Committee does not propose ordering another Committee. Does anyone else have a motion for a commandment? It's not like that. We therefore have to vote on a proposal to extend the deadline for discussion of 20 days. We will decide in the vote number 151, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of extending the deadline for discussion by 20 days. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 151. Of the present 164 for 73, against 40. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that the time limit for deliberation has remained in accordance with the law for 60 days, and the committee that will discuss this as a guarantee is the Committee on Budgets. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 19. According to the approved agenda, we will proceed with item number
