ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u1	28. Government bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, as amended, Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, Act No. 221/2003 Coll., on temporary protection of foreigners, as amended, and other related laws / House print 463/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec to present the proposal to us. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, on the basis of the Government's mandate, to present the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Asylum Act, the Act on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, the Act on the Temporary Protection of Foreigners and other related laws. This is in particular a transposition amendment, which is being transported to our right by the amendment, which has been approved within the EU. The aim of this amendment is to adopt common EU rules on the granting of international protection and to prevent abuse of this system. For this reason, for example, the following measures are proposed: a new amendment to the treatment of repeated applications for international protection. This regulation prevents abuse of international protection proceedings for the purpose of unwarranted extension of residences of foreigners in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, the automatically deferred effect of appeals shall be abolished. Another thing newly introduced is the assessment of specific needs in vulnerable applicants. The Government's draft law is intended to achieve a state of fulfilment of the obligation to transpose and complete a common European asylum system, which sets minimum standards for management and international protection in individual EU Member States. However, the proceedings themselves remain within the competence of the individual states. Ensure an effective system of granting international protection is a legitimate intention of the EU, and I firmly believe that the Czech Republic will also support this intention by adopting the proposal I propose today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u3	I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior and please now the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Josef Zahradníček to present us with this law. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. As rapporteur for the House Press 463, which is the Government's bill amending the Asylum Act, the Act on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, the Act on the Temporary Protection of Foreigners, and finally some other laws that need to be amended in this context. The reason for this amendment is mainly to reflect the changes brought by EU law into the Czech rule of law in this area. It is therefore primarily a transposition proposal, and, as I understand from the proposal, the deadline ends in July of this year. This is also adapted to the proposal for the entry into force of this law with a very short time limit for discussion. The proposal was justified by the Minister of the Interior, and I do not think it is necessary for me to repeat the facts at first reading. I will just add that this is a rather extensive and legally and factually very complex proposal. It comes with a new definition part, with new legal institutes or at least with their new content. It should also be noted that the file contains more than 270 pages. The law, of course, has a very strong political subtext, which is given by the current situation in the south of Italy, the Balkans and other places in Europe. This is where the strong migration waves from North Africa, from the places of war in the Middle East, are headed. While I am aware that because of our commitments arising from EU membership, I am of the opinion that the proposal will also need to be assessed from the perspective of current, current political events in the world. I expect a very detailed committee discussion and, above all, the Committee on Security, which should be a guarantee committee, and with the result, if I continue to be a rapporteur, I will gradually introduce you. Meet, of course, in the second reading of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his introductory words and open a general debate, which she has joined as the first Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by saying that I have already followed closely the discussion of the draft asylum law in its discussions with the Government, particularly because of the absolutely absurd and anti-interest of our country going to the public defender of the rights of Mrs Šabatová, the Minister for Human Rights, Mr Dienstbier, as well as the Supreme Administrative Court. I am very pleased that the government has finally taken a rational stand on these proposals, thanking Minister Chovanc for his standing up and, therefore, for standing up to him not only rationally but also in line with the standards of asylum policy that are common in all democratic countries. So I have no problem supporting the bill at first reading, but just to remind you, I will mention two of the proposals that fell from the Ombudsman and other pseudo-interpreters of fundamental human rights and freedoms in the context of the commentary procedure. Firstly, it was to avoid the possibility of expulsion of an applicant for international protection, which is proved by a forged document, by another person or by a document of its own or invalid document. Not only does this proposal deny the State's right to know the identity of the persons who are in its territory, but it goes far beyond that and suggests that persons with a forged passport or a passport of someone else should also be allowed to stay, i.e. those who are proving to be attempting fraud. Should we really grant international protection to those who are already trying to circumvent the system when they apply for it and expect no one to notice? The second thing that bothered me there and which is not yet in the government's proposal, but of course it cannot be ruled out that, under the amendments, someone will try to propose it again, is to avoid the possibility of withdrawing asylum in cases where the asylum seeker is a danger to the state or is finally convicted of a particularly serious crime and thus threatens the security of the state. [[17.40 hours]] The status of a asylumant is, in a way, a privileged position. Moreover, his withdrawal does not necessarily mean expulsion or any other steps. It is sovereign - I repeat, the sovereign right of the state to decide who and under what conditions it will grant this status, and therefore I do not see the slightest reason to leave it to those who may be a security risk to our country or who are committing serious crimes. These two examples are an alarming illustration of how far it can lead to a separation from reality, alienation from the interests of our country and its citizens, which we all have, who hold public office, the citizens we are here to defend and represent. I feel like I'm probably living in a different world than the one in which Minister Dienstbier or Mrs Ombudsman lives, and I can't understand that some people can so flagrantly ignore the reality that we are in today. I do not understand why we should treat immigrants in a more mild way than our own citizens. I'd like to ask the Home Secretary how police would tolerate it if, for example, the driver was shown a forged driver's license. I dare to guess the Minister's answer. But I am asking this rhetorical question so that we realize the absurdity of what we could have had in the proposal. I am well aware of the difficult situation that immigrants can often find themselves in, and I am not defending zero tolerance to them. However, there are certain basic rules that we should require of them, and they must clearly include avoiding attempts at cheating and criminal activity. I am particularly talking about this because, in the course of further discussion of the amendment to the asylum law in the Chamber of Deputies, there would be proposals to include these or similar proposals in this amendment, it would clearly be a reason for the Civic Democrats' club not to support the law in further readings or at the end of it. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister of the Interior Chovanec a certain guarantee that in such a case he would insist on the opinion of his department and oppose the adoption of proposals that clearly threaten the security of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u7	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Mr Jiří Koubek has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u8	Thank you, Mr President. If you don't mind, by your means to Mrs Černochová, if I try to quote her now. You said there's a concern that they would try to get asylum through fraudulent behavior and expect no one to notice, in case it was incorporated there. It is even worse, my dear fellow Member through the President. The condition was that they didn't actually expect nobody to notice, but they're even waiting, they'd expect someone to notice, and it wouldn't matter to the state! And that's exactly the thing that we can never care about, because like you said, it's our basic duty to know and identify anyone who moves in our territory. I don't understand those fools who even came up with it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u9	Thank you, Mr Koubek. With another factual remark, Mr Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. My statement will be brief. I would like to thank - and I was convinced of this at the meeting of the Foreign Committee - the Ministry of the Interior and, in particular, the Minister for a consistent position on this issue, which I could have seen. I always say about the human rights beliefs and everything that everything is power and where the line is. I always give such an example. These people, I wonder how many socially weak or asylum seekers they have staying at home that they feed, I mean directly in their home. Let me give you an example. A man rings your doorbell, you live in 2+1 with two kids, he says, "I'm sick, I'm threatened, I'm gonna live in your house." There'll be one. The next day the next one rings, he's gonna want to live there another one, he's gonna live there in three. Where's the limit that family can afford to feed people like that? And now I relate this to the state. And then there's a rumor coming from the neighbors and he's like, "Well, they're really bad, and you have a duty to take care of them. And we're not going to give you anything, but take care of them." When these people say, "I live in my apartment, buy beer, buy wine to three socially weak, homeless people," I'll appreciate these people and say, "you really have something to say about it, because you really do the good." But these people, I really don't take it from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u11	Thank you, Mr Plzák. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been questions or requests for assurances. Any amendments to this important standard will be submitted by the Ministry of the Interior to a security scan and we will give our opinion on it. The government decided on the material in this form, knocked out some points, just based on the views of the Ministry of the Interior. I don't think there's anything to change about it. I'm sure we have a duty to help those helpless and helpless. On the other hand, it is in the interests of the Czech Republic that we know who comes to us, with what intentions to know about those people who want to harm our society from entering the European continent. And here it is also for debate with our partners, especially with the Italians. We are having this debate, the last time I conducted it with my departmental colleague from the Federal Republic of Germany, and I think we have exactly the same views here on many aspects. Otherwise, be assured that the Ministry of the Interior will examine all the amendments very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-016-028.u13	I thank the Minister for his final word. I do not see any motion to rebut or reject the proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Would someone please order another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote. I ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favor of the Security Committee's commandment as a guarantee committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 64, 174 Members and Members, for 141, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone else have a draft committee to discuss? It's not like that. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has not been ordered by any other committee for discussion, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. However, the Minister will remain at the rapporteur's table because the next item is:
