ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 270/ 8/ - returned to the Senate Before we proceed to this law, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow Senator Milada Emmerová to speak. I would like to inform you that the information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. [[There's a lot of activity in the hall.]] Let's take a vote. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with Senator Emmerová's performance, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote's number 39. It's 167, 155, no one's against it. This proposal was adopted. Before I give the floor to the senator, I will inform you that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments and his resolution has been delivered to you as press 270/9. First of all, I would like the Minister of Health to speak on behalf of the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments attached.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u2	As draftsman, I disagree with the Senate's amendments and recommend that we adopt the law in the original version approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr David Kasal, wants to speak on the Senate's proposals - not so, and the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna - is not so. In that case, I am opening the debate and I ask that Senator Emmerová speak first in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, even if this is a purely official act, to greet you completely humanely. I would like to present to you the 157th Senate resolution of the 9th meeting, which took place on 18 June 2015 on the already mentioned law, i.e. Act on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws, and other related laws. It was Senate press number 87. The Senate shall return the draft law to the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the amendments in the Annex to this resolution. Secondly, he commissioned me and Senator Vladimír Plaček to justify the Senate resolution at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. [[It's busy in the hall.]] A quarter of a year has passed since the adoption of this resolution and it has been possible to think about what amendments have been adopted and how they are compatible with the fundamental philosophy of this law. If there were any doubt that the change in the vaccination regime, which is also mentioned in the amendments, does not seem entirely appropriate, so -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u5	Colleagues, colleagues - Senator, I am so sorry - please calm down. There's a noise coming from the left side of the ministerial bench. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Senator, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u6	So I personally did not support this amendment from my profession, and I believe that, at the moment of the migration crisis, it is all the more justified not to hack our original regime - the vaccination calendar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u7	Thank you, Senator. Furthermore, I have one written application in the debate, which is Mr Štětina's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u8	Hello, Mr President, Madam Senator, Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members. From this place I speak -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u9	Ambassador, I apologize, and once again I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies. If my requests are not answered, I will be forced to suspend the negotiations until the House has calmed down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am speaking from this point in the Chamber of Deputies on vaccination at least for the third time, perhaps for the fourth time. I will not change my mind, and I am glad that there have been words before me, both from the Minister and especially from the Senator, that she did not support this view as a doctor. I'm not a person who's undemocratic, I respect people's opinion. I have dealt with a number of e-mails during the last time we talked about vaccination, and this is not only during this parliamentary term, but we have already discussed this in the last parliamentary term, I have had a number of discussions in which I have justified why vaccination must be compulsory, and it is not possible for some activists or civil associations to dictate to the state administration which is responsible for the fact that citizens of this country will receive the best possible and best medical care if you want. I will not repeat the things I have said here, but I am struck by two facts. All of you, as Members of Parliament, have put books on the table in which there were individual case reports. I see it's on my colleague's desk. If you were lucky or misfortune to publish a book, then you know it's not a simple thing and it's not a cheap thing. I'm asking who pays for these activities. I'm sure it's not the Department of Health, I'm sure it is. And the other thing that stopped me. When these activities failed in the Chamber of Deputies, they turned to the Senate. A Senate that should improve laws that we may not be able to achieve optimally here, but I believe that this amendment does not belong in this category. I believe that the opinion of the Ministry of Health is very clear. I assume that most of us will support this view without distinction of leftness or rightness. I would have just one brief question for the Minister, which I have also discussed with many people with whom I have argued about vaccination. Of course, the first priority is the law that we decide today, or we don't. Second, there is a decree issued by the Ministry of Health as an implementing regulation, and I ask the Minister if he is working on this decree, and especially when he will be issued, so that we really have a very clean conscience, and what we have had in discussions with these activities over the last three years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Leoš Heger, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u12	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, too, once again, to comment on the Public Health Act, particularly in relation to the proposed changes that have come from the Senate. First of all, let me say a few general things about public health protection and vaccinations specifically. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Protecting public health was one of the achievements of the past socialist and communist era. It needs to be said quite openly. There has been a significant breakthrough in the area of public health protection in the postwar period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u13	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but the noise is really unbearable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u14	There was a major breakthrough in the protection of public health, which had already proved to be one of the most effective introductions of new medical technologies in the late 19th century, and this process continued and the state administration in the 1950s, as it was a very cruel time and mostly unfavorable for our country, so the public health and protection of the mother and child greatly supported. Since then, Czech vaccinology and epidemiology have become, or Czechoslovak, to be exact, a highly respected discipline both in our country and in the international field, gained numerous international achievements and in the end of the last 20th century, our epidemiologists and vaccinologists directly participated in the process that led to the total eradication of blackpox in the world. One of mankind's most dangerous diseases, which practically, hopefully, has been eradicated long-term and has ceased to vaccinate. That was a major breakthrough in our vaccination pattern. We experienced a second breakthrough here in the House in the last parliamentary term, when compulsory vaccination against tuberculosis was abolished. Paradoxically, in today's highly detected atmosphere, which concerns vaccination procedures and their responsibilities, there was a debate that was just the opposite. There was a great tendency of the House to abolish the abolition of vaccination against tuberculosis in terms of restrictions on general vaccination and there were large and extensive arguments for how important health protection in this regard was and how important it is for the population. I remind you of this aspect because vaccination is a kind of interference with the integrity of a person and always causes reactions. In this case, the reactions were just opposite to what they are heard today, and those anti-vacation reactions still remind us that each vaccination has two aspects. The benefit aspect and the risk of vaccination. The whole discussion of tuberculosis vaccination and the abolition of its area obligation shows that our medical sphere behaves very, very responsibly in this respect. Tuberculosis has been evaluated, it has been found on the risk page that this risk has decreased, that since the 1960s the large incidence of tuberculosis has decreased greatly, that in essence the occurrence of several dozen cases per year is only episodic and fluctuates the statistical curve more or less by accident, and those who are infected usually in a risky environment or are known to be risky patients, and can be picked up in the population preventively and can be vaccinated selectively, as the vaccination has not been abolished absolutely, but has only been reserved for risky children from risky populations. The other side of the "game" is the cost page. I'm not gonna mention that here because it didn't play a major role in tuberculosis, but it's a risky side. [[9.30 hours]] And just in the tuberculosis vaccine, it was known that the incidence of complications was relatively large, and extensive studies have shown that their incidence outweighs the benefits of the vaccination, and that was the main argument for the abolition. Why do I say that? I don't want to delay here, but there are some basic facts that need to be recalled, because the current anti-inoculation hysteria has developed on the basis of unsubstantiated information that vaccination poses a great risk to our children. It's not true. Studies that have been conducted and published show that this risk is appropriate. They further show that some of the risks that have been pointed out are clearly false and that in many cases they are either scientific forgeries or errors. This concerns specifically the issue of the occurrence of autism, which has been clearly demonstrated that its occurrence in the vaccine population does not increase in relation to vaccination and that what is argued does not really have the so-called evidence of the base, or scientific support. I'm not here to expand these general considerations. I'd just like to say a few specific words about the Senate proposal. The Senate proposal in its impact on the amendment points which affect the obligation of vaccination and the probabilities that the child is vaccinated if it is to be admitted to certain establishments or interest events, so that if this change has passed, it will be a very radical change which de facto causes the optionality of the vaccination, although its obligation remains in the law. Therefore, I highly recommend that this change should not be adopted, with the fact that there are quite good records of how the whole issue has been discussed at the Ministry of Health in a working group that is working very intensively and is moving towards the final state where the vaccination calendar would be reviewed, when the occurrence of all benefits and risks would be evaluated again for individual vaccinations, and where it turns out that the sessions are bordering, the vaccination calendar would be reduced. Another thing that is mentioned not by the parental population, but by the medical population, is to protect doctors from the adverse effects of the complications that arise during vaccination. These are individual cases, and they are far from as risky as those with complications that may occur if they stop vaccination across the board, as various epidemics of the incidence of, for example, black cough or measles show. In this case, it is necessary to listen to the medical community and look for ways in which the state will ensure that those patients who experience complications are compensated so that the burden in cases where the state wishes to do something is not passed on to the doctor. From this measure, which has been referred to for several years and has been discussed repeatedly, and now it seems that there will be a way to enforce it, and from such a measure, it can be expected that the access of doctors to vaccination will improve, that they will have a higher incentive to promote vaccination, how to explain it across the board to parents, and how to ensure that even if there is more voluntary vaccination in the future, it remains widespread in the population as it is today, that is about 95 percent of the population's inoculation. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by calling for us to approve this very large and complicated law on the protection of public health and its adaptation in the form that has passed through the Chamber of Deputies, because there are a number of things or a number of things prevailing that do not cause any problems that have been worked out, and it would be a shame to disturb them. On the specific issue of vaccination, we will certainly return to the Ministry of Health and specify it so that the passions that have appeared unnecessarily in the population are rationally subdued and that the vaccination will regain the general trust of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u15	Thank you. Now I have two factual points. The first is Mr Bendl's remark. I already have three factual points. Then Mrs Nováková and then Mr Kostřica. All two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, Mr Senator, fellow Members, I have spoken quite extensively on this issue during the debate of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like, as a person who is significantly in conflict of interest, because I have a six-month-old baby at home, and as a person who listens to a former government colleague Leoš Heger when he says that the risk is adequate, I conclude that there is a risk. And I don't think that health or family is less than state. I think family is more than a state. I think that health, that my health is not property of the state, but property of mine, and that if there is such a risk and the state orders people to have their children vaccinated, then the state should pay hard for it if there is an error and as if it is happening, which none of the doctors present in the Chamber of Deputies denied, that it happens that the state will order compulsory vaccination and the child will get into extreme life problems, which I don't think there is much to describe here. I don't agree with mandatory vaccination. I am convinced that it is possible to do some sort of timing of the vaccination, that it is not necessary to inoculate infants against diseases that can only be obtained from sexual intercourse. Just a hexavac vaccine, if you want, a doctor, is a crime for me that can turn on the child for life and it should be up to parents to decide, not the state, whether we get vaccinated by it. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u17	Thank you. We've gotten a lot of real notes. I have six here. I beg Mrs Nováková and then Mr Kostřica.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the many-hour discussions on vaccinations will not burn down, because I believe that everyone here has clearly said their views. For understandable reasons, I will support the Senate proposal. The reason is the same for which I could not support the proposal of the Chamber of Deputies, namely - none of the amendments, including that of the Senate, deny compulsory vaccination. He only takes parents as a partner and actually deals with how to detect that the vaccination process has already occurred. [[9.40 hours]] We in the Chamber of Deputies proposed an individual vaccination plan. The Senate amendment refers to the fact that a child can be admitted to pre-school facilities when it brings confirmation of the stage at which the vaccination process is de facto. It is also the case with sanctions that do not interfere with parents who oppose, do not want to fulfil the vaccination obligation, but, in turn, there has to be evidence that the parent has started to deal with the vaccination process with his pediatrician. With all due respect to all the doctors, we're talking about the level of parental responsibility. I believe that precisely because of the international situation now, it is completely unrealistic to believe that the number of parents who will refuse compulsory vaccination will multiply. Parents reject only dictation and insensitive treatment and the fact that pediatricians do not explain it enough. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Hopefully, that will correct the conclusions of the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u19	Thank you. Mr Kostřica, Mr Farský after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say briefly as a doctor on this issue. I personally believe that all efforts to limit vaccination in some way are, in a way, irresponsible from some parents to their own offspring. In the last few months, I have had more than 20, 30 requests for an interview with individual interested parties. All of the people I talked to were Internet-informed laymen. None of them were medically educated or medically educated, and all of these hardships and woes compared to compulsory vaccinations were from one basket. I believe that if we look not only from the point of view of the individual, but from the point of view of the entire population, this vaccination is definitely meaningful, and I believe that the version supported by the Minister and proposed by the Chamber of Deputies will also pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u21	Thank you. Mr Farský, Mr Svoboda after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the case of the Public Health Act and the regulation of vaccination is precisely the case when explaining is replaced by repression and sanctions, so naturally this will result in strong resistance. And the resistance here is because there's no way of explaining, there's no trust that should be created by an approach. And unfortunately in the spring, when we proposed here, I would say a gentle adjustment of vaccination procedures, an individual vaccination plan, no one suggested the abolition of the compulsory vaccination, nor does the Senate proposal suggest it. The Senate proposal on vaccination only provides that it will not be a condition for full vaccination with hexavaccines and others for entry to kindergarten or recovery events. He says the condition is proof of the extent to which the child is vaccinated. Of course, it transfers partly responsibility to doctors, transfers partly responsibility to parents and founders and organizers. But I think it's the right thing to do, because it opens up space and enforces space, and that's good to explain and justify why vaccination is right. Because so far, instead of explaining and justifying, stronger and stronger repression is taking place, and it causes greater and greater distrust. If we're talking about the serious effects of the vaccination, we need to say that last year alone was 613. That's not a small number to shake hands with and say it's a statistical error that's going to happen, and we're going to move on because, overall, it's good. It is 613 cases that had to deal with the problems that compulsory vaccination brought. And why is there such mistrust? Of course, this is also due to the fact that we are unique in our own way. We're inoculating nine vaccines. To the west of us, three, four, somewhere even none. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yet, they do not have mass problems that they would be adversely affected, that they are not being vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Svoboda, then Mr Štětina. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u24	Have a good day. We in the House are still dealing with a problem of how to regulate something by law, which is a matter of communication, the use of knowledge and knowledge of the brain, and the fact that parents and patient, the child, are partners of the doctor, and two parties have to agree on a variant. That's the only solution. Because if we want to go back to when the smallpox was smallpox, we can go back to it. We all know that if vaccinations fall below 80 percent, there's an epidemic. It has already appeared in Ukraine, where diphtheria exploded, against which they stopped vaccinating, so they re-cut the breathing tubes so the children wouldn't suffocate. We are in a situation where, as part of the new world migration, the risk of some infection being brought here is enormous. There's been a virus that hasn't been here in Europe in 40 years. And the way in which the influx of migrants will proceed, and the risk that our children will be threatened, is great. And I'm also in conflict of interest, I have two children of vaccine age, and I wouldn't dare as a parent to say that I'm not going to inoculate them. In case of complications, because they are allergic, I would certainly be looking for a meeting at a specialized center, not in the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u25	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Slutty. After that, the MP took it Vyzula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u26	Thanks again for the word. I didn't want to talk anymore. But when I heard some discussion posts here, I have to. I'd like to ask. 613 complications - what were the complications? I don't know. Is it a lot or a little compared to the number of unscathed children? I don't know. But if someone says 613, then they have to say what, both serious and so on. Second thing, folks. Compulsory vaccination is not a crime! Compulsory vaccination is the basic anti-epidemiology measures against infectious diseases and epidemics that we are now in danger of with the migration crisis! And if someone says compulsory vaccination is unnecessary and even a crime, let us ask ourselves - how is it possible that we have a cough? How is it possible that tuberculosis is reappearing to us? I'll tell you why. Because there are irresponsible people who are against vaccination against these sneaky diseases. That's all I'm gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u27	Thank you. Mr Vyzula and then Mr Nykl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would just like to assure you very briefly, Mr President, Mr Bendl, that if he has any reservations about hexavaccine, I must remind him that we have alternative vaccines that can be arranged with a doctor. By your means, Mr President, to Mr Farský. As far as 613 adverse events are concerned, epidemiologists have clearly calculated that our mandatory vaccination will prevent 150,000 diseases per year in children and 500 deaths. In France, just for the record, they have a different vaccination plan, but there is basically a threat of two-year prison sentence and a fine of 30,000 euros to parents who are not vaccinated. As far as our fines are concerned, which we have proposed in the parliamentary proposal, they are very mild against this. Otherwise, given the refugee wave, I must point out that there are reports of polio cases that may come to us from areas such as Pakistan, Iran, Iraq. And that's a disease we definitely don't want here. So I strongly support the parliamentary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u29	Thank you. Mr Nykl and Mrs Olga Havlová after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u30	Good morning. I'd like to ask the House to put an end to this debate. Vaccines are too serious a question for us to address some two-minute factual remarks, many people who are not in the field, this issue, which belongs in the hands of allergologists, immunologists, vaccinologists, children's doctors. I remember, at first reading, the Minister said that he was an intern and that he was also unable to intervene completely and that a working group would be made and that it would show how the development should continue. I'm a cardiologist, and I wouldn't want to talk too much about it either, but I think the situation is clear at the moment. Let us vote and, of course, professionally, those tax experts will continue to express themselves and cooperate, and this will benefit everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u31	Thank you. Mrs Havlová, and a factual point then to Mr Krákora. Member of Parliament, second in line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Dawn will support the government's proposal for several reasons. It was all actually said here. What we think is very important is that people who are sick, immigrants who are coming to us are now moving in there, there are open tuberculosis and everything, and if we don't get these children vaccinated, there's a great danger of this disease. And as Dr. Svoboda said, the most important thing is that every parent should be a partner of the doctor and agree to do so because everyone knows if the child has a disease, and at this point, none of the doctors will allow the child to be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u33	děkovat you, Mr. Krákora.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u34	I don't want to stall. Of course, as an MP and pediatrician, the question of vaccination is very clear to me. By the way, the Constitutional Court of February 2012 decided that basic vaccination is mandatory. But I just wanted to say: Here was the number of 613 complications, but last year was done, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, over 6 million vaccinations in the paediatric population, i.e. the punctures, and about 6 million punctures and 600 complications, so I calculated it, so it's actually an adverse reaction of medium and higher 1:60,000, and that's 0.15 hundred thousand percent, if I convert it to promile, so it's one hundredth of the promile complications. So let's have the other number, so we know what we're talking about. Thank you. And I'm a proponent of mandatory vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u35	Yes, thank you. One more factual point from Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u36	Mr President, colleagues, I do not know how many more medically educated colleagues and colleagues are there to take turns here. However, I will allow myself a little bit to turn that famous statement: Less politics into science and more science into politics. So this is where I'd put it for the medicine, so less politics for medicine and more medicine for politics. Let us really talk about things that are political, not professional, and I think it belongs to other forums. I would argue that we would not be able to agree that we would close the debate after properly applied for and vote. If I may suggest it this way. I can't. Well, there was an effort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u37	You've tried nicely, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, but unfortunately you can't, and it's up to individual Members to report further to the debate. We can't limit anyone. I ask Mr Hovorka, who is the next logged in and so far the last logged in to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u38	Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, this law was not primarily intended to deal with vaccination and only touched it in a very marginal and completely unnecessary manner. The wave of discussion, which rose, seminars on the subject of vaccination compulsory or optional, brought just a number of questions. But I believe that at the first meeting of the committee that dealt with this issue, I have proposed that the Ministry settle these objections. An expert committee has therefore been set up to deal with these objections and to address them. These are objections concerning the number of vaccinations, individual vaccines, vaccination calendars, whether the child is to be vaccinated in so many and so many months or later. I think these are the things that are now left to the expert solution. The thing ahead of us today is to decide whether to accept the Senate or the House's version. I intercede for the House version because I'm afraid of interfering with the vaccination system. Even what we accept, what someone says as a minor amendment to the law, will bring about the release of the vaccination system. Given that there are people at the borders of Europe who often have no vaccinations at all, it is a great threat and a great risk that they bring with them, and this risk will, of course, be multiplied by how the vaccinations become loose. To Mr Bendl, through Mr President: You know, it is certainly for discussion, and believe that practical children's doctors often discuss problems and convince parents and convince them of the benefits of vaccination. But the explanation takes more and more time, which then is missing for your own treatment etc. It should be pointed out here that the time available to them, as the population curve has now risen, as the birth rate has risen, and, of course, the children are growing, and they lack time for effective treatment. So it's just an explanation. Of course, there is always the possibility of risk, adverse effects, but this is also true of all medicines. There is always an individual who simply has a negative reaction to a particular medicinal product. This is also the case with vaccines, but this risk can be eliminated here too, because there is a possibility of screening of adverse effects, screening of immune deficiency and it is possible to introduce this screening in children in the Czech Republic. So these are all things that are expert, they are in the solution of the expert committee, and the Ministry has promised to prepare an amendment to the Public Health Act, which will deal with primary vaccinations and those things that have been raised as questions. So I think that the outcome of the commission will then be incorporated into the bill that we will discuss. We are now faced with a decision and everyone should realize that we are not dealing with vaccinations under normal circumstances, but in a situation where hundreds of thousands of people are actually at the borders of Europe who are at risk, a great risk to our population, to our children. And knowing that responsibility, we should make a decision. That is why I personally support the House version. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u39	Thank you. Mr. Kudela. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I'm an informatic, a farmer, I don't have children. However, I have read the law, the Public Health Act. Title I begins: Rights and obligations of persons and the exercise of state administration in the protection of public health. Title III talks about the prevention and spread of infectious diseases. He'll specify who's responsible for what. Parents and their legal representatives are responsible for the vaccination of children. I didn't find any school facilities there. All of a sudden, for recovery events and schools in nature, schools are obliged to check to see if children have vaccinations. [[10.00 hours]] In the long run, the responsibility here is transferred to the schools and school facilities to control the responsibilities of their parents, which are imposed on them by law. The kids have to go to school because they're under the law - parents. But for a school in nature, if they don't have vaccinations, they can't go. And it is this Senate proposal that alleviates the responsibilities and takes away sanctions from school establishments for the state not being able to check parents' responsibilities, whether children are vaccinated or not. When I think about it this way, I think it's not at all a debate about whether or not vaccination is mandatory. That's in other paragraphs, and no one questioned it. But the obligation to check schools to see if a child can go to a school in nature is imposed here in the current adjustment under penalty. And it is the Senate proposal that alleviates this penalty. Also, the child has to go to school, so no one checks the vaccinations there, but preschool is required to present full vaccinations. So is school in nature. They go to school in nature in the fourth grade. In the first class, no one checks the vaccination, and in the fourth grade, the child has to be checked for proper vaccination. He can go to the fire department, he can go to football, he can go to music. He can go everywhere, but he has to check the school in the fourth grade to see if he has all the vaccinations. And that is what the Senate proposal is talking about, where it alleviates these obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u41	Thank you, too. I now ask the President of the KDU-ČSL Club, Jiří Mihola, with a factual remark and after that the President of Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a short time, because we do not have our President here, so that he does not get rid of me when I have asked for a slow end to the debate. Just a little bit of our attitude. I'm glad the debate is under way. I think it's very useful and that the subject is open. I firmly believe that... I have discussed this very much with both the Minister of Health, the Deputy Minister, the Chief Hygiene and others and, of course, a number of parents. I listen carefully, I read books, arguments. I guess you got a lot of them, too. I see these arguments. But I also see that it is the will from the point of view of the Ministry of Health to stand as responsible as possible in the direction of this openness. At least that's what the Minister declared it to me. Maybe he'll say it again. It is clearly declared that the Ministry wants to make the State liable for the damage caused by the vaccination. One of those arguments. The sanctions that have been set at a pointless level have decreased. And even there is the question as simply the highest possible sanctions and the lowest limit. So I think there's good faith in this matter. It's a good thing we're discussing this. I'm almost lost in that number of medical professionals here, even though my brother is also a doctor. I discussed it carefully with him too, and he said to me: "I wouldn't have dared to take a crucial position on this, because I am not a vaccineologist. So even here, I'd put a little bit in the parentheses of all these opinions, to what extent it's a delicate matter. Although I will give a free vote on this matter, I will personally support the proposal of the Chamber of Deputies, that is, the Government, and I believe that we will return to this debate and to the next solution in the near future, and that those announced changes by the Ministry of Health will be fulfilled. I'll keep an eye on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u43	Yes. Thank you. I beg you, with a factual remark from President Black. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just in a hurry. A real comment on what my colleague Bendl said. I agree with him. I'm sure family is the most basic thing. But on the other hand, I have a family, I have two children. A daughter has a serious health problem, and for example, a disease like a cough is almost a deadly danger to her. And I have rights from this point of view, too, and I don't want to let some people's responsibilities or irresponsibleness be entirely left to me, if they're gonna get their kids vaccinated, and if that's gonna be a problem for my daughter again. So in this regard, I'm sure I understand the words of my colleague Farský in the big number of children who have a problem in the course of vaccination. But what we need to take into account here is that I think that a doctor, if there's any contraindications, is that in this direction he's going to stand up to it in a way that he's going to make an individual plan. I really think letting it... 'Cause I'm sure we've all been going round and round with different organizations that volunteered and started with how bad it all was, wore the same paperwork, wore books. But nowhere was it given that I too was worried about my children. And that's why I want the children to be secured in this direction by some system that should work. And indeed today, in the context that not only at the borders, but throughout Europe, there are people who are not vaccinated today. And it is not just a question of the Czech Republic. It is a question of the whole of Europe. We have free movement. That means, at that point, it would mean that I would have to be afraid to go anywhere else so my daughter wouldn't get a disease that could really endanger her life. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u45	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. Nor do I have any further application for a debate. If this is really true, I am ending the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It is. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly sum up a few sentences of the situation we are facing right now. Perhaps I would like to remind you that it is not that there is a repressive proposal from the Ministry, supported by the Chamber of Deputies, who does not trust their parents, wants to force them to do something, and who squeals at them with high sanctions, and, on the other hand, the Senate proposal, which understands parents as responsible, who take care of their children. I don't think so. I just want to recall the genesis of this proposal, recalling that the Chamber of Deputies, before it came to its version, dealt with the proposal very responsibly and for a very long time. It was dealt with repeatedly by the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The law even went back to committee. And I have to say, even in that committee, and I think that even those who have a different opinion of the bill will confirm the resulting shape that is here and which has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies were the result of a compromise. The law has shifted very significantly, sanctions against collective facilities, where children are staying, have been greatly mitigated. In the meantime, a working group was established at the Ministry of Health, where there are representatives, i.e. experts in vaccinations, i.e. people for whom vaccination is daily bread, and at the same time there are representatives of the public who have a very different opinion. And I am very glad that this group was created, that there is a debate going on. Basically, there should be some further changes on the basis of the Commission's outputs. On the basis of the results of this commission, the implementing decrees will also be amended. The big task before this committee is, but it is not quite simple, it is a draft law that addresses compensation, because once again determine exactly what is the result of vaccination, what is an undesirable effect and what is not, it is not quite simple and it will not be a simple standard. I want to thank you for the speech that has been made in this debate. I think there have also been some arguments that suggest why we need collective vaccination, that it is also the protection of really those children who are ill, who have diseases that prevent them from receiving compulsory vaccination, and when we have high levels of vaccination, those children can easily enter the children's collectives and are not at risk of endangering their health or life. Of course, someone may have a philosophical sense that the state has no right to order anything at all. I don't think I can convince these people. However - I have said this repeatedly - when we respect that we are required to strap ourselves under the threat of sanctions in a car where we mostly threaten ourselves, and we reject the fact that the state can order something where thousands and thousands of children are protected, so I think it's okay. [[10.10 hours]] So I would very much like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to confirm, and I say, it was the result of a very long and very honest debate, my original compromise bill on the protection of public health, because I think what has been said here: we are living in a very turbulent time. Infections do not know the boundaries and within weeks or months the situation can change so much, there can be refugees not only from Syria, from Ukraine for example and so on, and we will be very happy to have a high population inoculation here. I don't think we should gamble with this amount of Czech health care. I'm here again confirming the promise I made here. The task force will continue its work. Of course, there is always a need - there are things that can be improved, that can be adjusted. We want to continue to communicate with the public. I would remind you that the sanctions that originally were greatly mitigated. So I beg very much to support this law in the original House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-002-003.u47	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the rapporteurs again because they have the right to the final word if they want to use it. It's not like that. In that case, we will vote. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will proceed to the vote pursuant to § 97 para. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House Press 270/8, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 270/9.' Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 40, the entry is 181, for 40, against 97, this proposal has not been adopted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will continue to do so in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Please set the kvora to 101. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in the version in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 270/8.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 41, registered is 181, for 148, versus 6. I note that we have adopted the bill in the original version, as passed on to the Senate. I thank the Senator and the Minister, and I conclude on this point. Let's continue with the point.
