ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u1	98. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and some other laws /house print 288/ - third reading I will ring the bell for my colleagues from the foyer to come and take part in this point. I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek and the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, take a seat at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 288/5. I'm going to ask you to take your seats, to keep your voice down, so that we understand each other's discussion. I am opening up a debate and asking who is reporting to the debate on this point. The first duly signed up for the debate is Mrs Nina Nováková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't talk long. As a member of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and as a member of the two subcommittees on regional education, I can say that the Members who have dealt with this have really worked hard to discuss this amendment. Not only have we discussed x-times in subcommittees, but we have also participated in a number of seminars, and we can really say that when we submit amendments, we have really thought about it. I would like to say that if the approval process is not so as to vote first on what is really discussed, that is, what the Committee's resolutions are, if we start with another procedure, it means that it will clearly see what is a priority for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. For us at TOP 09, please consider your support for the amendments of the otherwise highly respected colleague Kořenko, who actually cancels the possibility of individual education at second level in his amendment. I would like to say that the fact that TOP 09 - and not only TOP 09 - also a number of members from the ANO Members - is aware that individual education does not disturb the structure of our classical education at all, that it is hundreds of thousands of pupils. This is absolutely serious for us, and it's limiting. If he can't go through with this, it's a sign to us that we can't support the whole novel. I would like to say, if it stands on this, on the register of teaching staff and on the non-approval of individual education at second level - which I say again relates to thousands of children - if this is why the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is willing to throw away the absolutely positive Section 16, which is a positive breakthrough in access to pupils who have some specific needs, we regret it very much, but still, if the condition of individual education is not met, unless paragraph 5 falls out of Section 16a, which is very much discussed, the TOP 09 MEP cannot support this amendment. And we are very sorry because - I repeat - we generally consider § 16 to be a very positive breakthrough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u3	Thank you, Madame. I have here one factual point with which Mrs Semelová is registered, then with priority rights, Minister Chládek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u4	Thank you. I will no longer perform for § 16, the discussion was very detailed here and at various seminars. But I have to respond to individual education. I would like to point out that even under the current school law, according to current legislation, it is possible for a pupil to be educated outside the school if there are serious health reasons, or if the pupil and his parents are abroad for a long time. This is allowed according to an individual training plan. I see no reason for domestic or individual education to be extended to the second grade of primary school. We, as a club of KSČM, also disagree with home education at first level. We think that this does not contribute to the quality of education, that it degrades the teaching profession and that it should not be in our legislation at all. I would therefore like to say that the KSČM club, if domestic education is extended to second grade primary school, will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u5	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Chládek and after him will be prepared by Mr Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow three brief comments. First of all, I would like to say that I thank the opposition very much for seeing this amendment as a key and important one. As regards Section 16, it is not only § 16, but there are a number of key things that will help regional education. For Section 16, I would like to say that we also agree as a Ministry that paragraph 1 should be deleted. 5, as the Social Committee and some Members suggest. We consulted the European Commission. The European Commission has said, as far as only paragraph 1 is concerned. Five, that wouldn't be a problem. It would have been a problem if the school law had not been passed with Section 16, and the problem would have been that it is one of the conditions for drawing funds from the European Union. That's my first point. Second comment on the register. You know very well that we have been in a very problematic situation in the past, that we have had 18,000 unqualified teachers who should have left our school system. Still, we had 7,000 teachers at the Labor Office. The reason is simple. We have county numbers that tell us how many teachers we have in one county, tell us what age they are, what sex they are, but they don't tell us and what they are. And teaching faculties themselves asked that this register would help them better in targeting their offer of courses, respectively. offers of Master's degree education and that would not happen the situation that the Director has a lot of applications for admission e.g. the focus of the humanities direction, and yet he cannot find a qualified educator in the field of mathematics - physics. This is why we want a register to be introduced and we can better target requirements for teaching faculties. Thing three. You can see from the debate that the debate on home education is really very broad. And I feel that the problem isn't so much discussed yet. Therefore, I would like to say for all Members who have done this rather marginally, because they are dealing with other problems: Domestic education is now legally permitted until the fifth grade of primary school. So for all the little kids, there's that possibility. At the second stage, as the KSČM MEP has also spoken here, it is possible, if it is worth considering, to allow an individual training plan, e.g. for a severely disabled pupil, for athletes who already participate in top competitions, etc. Today it is really a marginal part of about 150 pupils. And we've expanded the testing from seven schools to 19. Each school is in the relevant region, so it will provide home education for all children of those parents who really have an obvious interest in it. But I don't think we're ready to put it in 4.5,000 elementary schools at the moment. Because I understand that this is a topic that is important, I suggest that we address this with a separate amendment and that does not cause the whole school law, which has 16 or 17 other points that you all support across the spectrum, whether you are from the left or from the right, and thus we would not get into trouble with drawing European funds. Because I have a real concern, if Section 16 fails, it will be a big problem for the European Commission. I would therefore suggest that our legislation can also help the Members who wish to submit this proposal as a separate one, that legislation can help them prepare this proposal, to prepare the possibilities for implementation. And, of course, I would also recommend holding a seminar in the House of Deputies, where both the risks and the positives of domestic education would be highlighted. There are different aspects to this. There are successful students, but there are students who have failed. Just like in other systems. So that's why I think it would be better if it were addressed by a separate amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u7	Thank you, Minister. I have one point of fact here, Mrs Putnová, so I will ask her. Then duly signed up for the debate is Mr Zlatuška and Mr Beznoska. [[Objection, factual.]] So, in that case, first of all, Mrs Putnová's factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u8	Good noon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you are a very skilled communicator and also a manipulator. None of the opposition has said that this standard is crucial and important. Mrs Nováková referred to § 16 as a good way and a good proposal. That's a little different. So don't put it in our mouths. I don't know who else congratulated you like that. But you complimented yourself, I can't accept it. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Another question concerning individual education. I think we've really put a lot of effort into this. And we were also talking about the delay being the beginning of failure! You don't really want individual education, you're not hiding it, and here you're trying to promise us some further delay that's supposed to make us feel better. We can't deal with this, and I'm being quite frank here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u9	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Beznoska and, after that, by Mr Karamazov. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning. I've only been very brief. The two mentioned conflict points, § 16 para. 5 is okay to let go. I guess there's a consensus on that. I have a slightly different opinion from Mr Kořenko, but there has been quite a long debate on the Committee on Social Policy around this paragraph. That's one point. And second point. As well as my colleague Putnová and my colleague Nováková think that the modern design of the Czech education system includes individual education for the second grade of primary school. And it doesn't have to be disabled or extremely successful athletes. We'll just open it up for everyone, because individual education is also the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u11	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the notes that came to me. Today, from 14:30 to 16:00, because of the doctor's visit, Mrs Zuzana Šánová apologizes, and from 12:00, Mr Josef Novotný apologizes for health reasons, from 11.30 to 14:30, for personal reasons, Mr Daniel Korte apologises, and then, for working reasons, Minister Stropnický apologizes. I will now ask for the factual comment made by Mr Karamazov and after him by Mr Zahradník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to convey the conditions under which the Civil Democratic Party will support this law. The conditions have actually fallen. The first is individual education. If individual education is received through amendments to the amendment for the second degree, the ODS will support the proposal, and so will the register of teaching staff. On the contrary, if it gets there, the ODS will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u13	Thank you, Mr Zahradník and then Mr Rais, both with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u14	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the reason given by the Minister in favour of introducing a register of teachers. No register of teachers will help to increase the interest in mathematics both at primary and secondary schools and at university, nor to increase the interest in the study of mathematics and physics teachers among students at teaching faculties. Other, far more complex and difficult paths lead to this. In addition to the inclusive section 16. Of course, I understand its importance from the point of view of general social order, as well as from the point of view of the European Union, but we must realise that we will not succeed in meeting the requirements of inclusion and integration without increasing significantly the number and also the status of teachers' assistants. I think there is still a shortage of them and that their position is very problematic so far. Even for that, Minister, you need to focus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Rais with a factual remark and then prepare a duly signed-in Mr Zlatuška. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u16	Have a good day. I would like to comment on individual second-level education. I think that I am so liberal that I know that this is a very step in the right direction, but on the other hand, it is necessary to discuss under what conditions this individual education will take place. That is why I think it is appropriate to discuss this further and, in essence, to address this problem in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u17	Thank you. I have two new factual points here. The first is Mr Kořenek and Mrs Semelová after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u18	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I'm just taking the liberty of teaching assistants. The status of the law is very clear, I think that teaching assistants are not the fundamental problem. The problem is that they are approved by the regions and the regions do not have the money for it, or they do not receive it, so they try to cope with the means they have, and if you get a ten-month assistant's salary, you have to undergo the procedure every year when they are approved. Each region has a different way of allocating funds. These are the problems, these are technical and organisational problems, but I believe that the decree of allocation of funds, the clear establishment of normatives, should solve these problems. But first, we need enough money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u20	I would just like to ask my colleagues and colleagues on my right in relation to home or individual education, how this is combined with your declarations concerning the inclusion of education, when you want to include all possible disabled people, etc. to the normal classes where you ask for special education to perish here, and yet you separate certain pupils from primary education and let them teach at home. That's the first point. The second thing why there was such a scream because of the law on teaching workers, when you on the right-hand side demanded that there be no exceptions, that everyone be qualified and that no one be unapplied and unqualified. And now you're gonna let them teach it at home to any parent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u21	Thank you. Another factual point by Mrs Nováková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate is now at that level, that we are making a bit of a logical use of the fact that not all Members have been familiar with the content of all the amendments in detail. I would like to draw attention to the fact that part of the amendments approved by the Committee, which is A, Amendments A10, 14 and 15, is also that individual education would be controlled, that there would be some disposition of the Czech School Inspectorate, and that if individual education took place at second level, it is a prerequisite that the guarantor has a higher education. And once again, I would like to point out: individual education - please do not turn this around. The condition of conditio sine qua non, a condition without which we cannot support it if it is not allowed to several dozen or hundreds of families who decide not to separate their children, but who choose another option of education, so you risk it - and I appeal to colleagues and fellow Members from the ANO Members - you know that this is right, and you risk that the amendment will not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u23	Thank you. I have Mr Schwarz's factual comment here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u24	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I must stand up for the Minister, because Mrs Putnová has already told us that she is playing us, promising some domestic education. You know, it was also my pressure on the Minister that I told him that I personally support domestic education as a person - but under what conditions? I can't imagine in the city where I live, in my own, where there are 14 elementary schools, that each school will run home education. That would drive the teachers or the directors or the fund-raisers crazy. I'm taking it more economically now. I support domestic education, but under certain conditions. For example, there's a school in the county that's gonna do it. And if anybody decides on homeschooling, then let them get there and the school is ready for it. That's what I'm worried about. So I'd like to explain that to you. That's what I've been appealing to the Minister. It's not his idea that he's trying to make us up, make us up a novel, or we're gonna make something up. That's what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u25	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Pilný is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am sure that an amendment to the School Act is needed, and I will certainly raise my vote for her. On the other hand, I would like to point out that despite what we are voting today, the future of education is personalised and is also individual. It is already because education is a lifelong process today and no matter what rules we introduce in what happens in stone schools, this process will continue and there is a future for the Czech Republic as well. [[12.40 hours]] And the second thing is that no register of teaching staff solves the lack of technical professions, it doesn't solve the need for applied mathematics and so on. That's a total illusion. The money just won't do the job, whether it costs $2 million or $30 million. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u27	Thank you. And now, therefore, the duly registered Member, Mr Zlatuška. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation, as it appears to me by school law, is extremely unfortunate given the time that the Ministry of Education has wasted in order for a substantive debate to take place on the points on which, perhaps, the Minister is now considering that he could continue. On the other hand, there was no debate where measures could be taken that would be beneficial. I will only start very briefly with the problem of home education. Under defined conditions, parents who meet the qualifications laid down by law, controlled inspections, should be educated for reasons which I personally consider to be reasons on which I would never accept in the case of my own children, but which parents have deep inside themselves, so that they can continue in this way from first to second degree. Long-term discussion has been made about what our fellow Communist party here has said as its fundamental reservations, in which, of course, the communist view of how education is supposed to look is different from the perspective of liberal or the view of people who represent a society that is more based on freedoms. The adoption of this method, which forbids fractions of the prolile that are concerned so that their children can continue the individual form of first-degree education to second degree, seems unreasonable to me and in some way unnecessary energy spending. I would remind you that when the school law was being prepared under previous governments in the amendment, there was the possibility of continuing individual education to the second degree. It is a matter that has long been based on expert opinions and an evaluation of the experience with home education at a basic level. If I were to paraphrase my impression of these expert opinions of the National Institute for Education, I am of the opinion that there have been no major problems with what home education looks like. The haunting of some failure, the haunting of social exclusion, the raising of useless autists, is not at all a threat. A professional recommendation for at least a year and a half old is that the law changes the conditions in order to allow individual education to the second degree. During the preparation of this amendment at the Ministry of Education, more or less ad hoc without expert opinions, the opinion prevailed that individual education in the amendment should not be presented. The Minister presented this right from the beginning of the hearing as more or less his position, through which there is no train. His Deputy Mr Mlsna, at the time he promised to assist Members in drafting amendments, said that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports would assist with preparations for a so-called comprehensive proposal only if there was no individual education. After the debate in committee, the majority position was to recommend to the Chamber of Deputies that this possibility be allowed. Today we will stand before the vote on Mr Kořenko's amendment, which merely reproduces the Minister's negative position. The Minister has made a promise here that may seem very open, prudent and all things possible, but it comes at a time when we no longer have a territorial discussion of what the matter should look like. I myself would like it best if the proposal were to return to second reading, but if the Ministry says that it is not possible for time reasons, I respect that. But the time to do so in order to solve the alleged problems that the Minister is talking about has undoubtedly been here. Unfortunately, he was wasted. From the perspective of the choice we are facing today, whether or not to support individual home education, it is for me the choice of declaring the principle of whether or not we want this element in the school law in the future, and, on the contrary, I would provide the Minister with the opportunity to correct these individualities in the next amendment, if there are clearly problematic individualities. But today we have parents whose children are educated individually at first level, they want to continue this way at second level and the moment we don't put it in the novel and say that we're going to hold some other seminars and we're going to prepare some further adjustments, so in any case, we're going to put a break in the possibility of individual education to these parents of children at first level. And I see this as a fundamental problem. Let's take the offer made by the Minister in a positive way. Today, let us accept the possibility of individual education, or let us reject Mr Kořenko's amendment, and let the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports give the helping hand to add an amendment to the next amendment, which will address any problems. We do not cause disaster because the tactic in which children go to school and educate themselves is annual, not monthly. We're not causing a disruption of the education system. The second point, which I see as a more substantive issue, concerns the register of teaching staff. The register of teaching staff, and I fully agree with what Mr Pilný said in his remark, simply fails to fulfil what he promises. It will cost only the costs of both the Ministry and the school side and introduce a dedicated register of personal data for plus minus 250,000 or how many pedagogical staff we have in the system of our education. They will not cope with the problems that are behind what some of the opponents of the proposal referred to as teacher qualifications because they do not address the problem of de facto regional education systems, which are given here by the competences of the founders towards the relevant schools. The law does not correct competence, it does not create a uniform way of managing the school system from the Ministry, it merely creates a one-purpose and completely unnecessary record. When you read the explanatory report on this law and an assessment of the impact and need of the introduction of this, the petitioner had to deal very closely with the fact that there was actually a registration that was contrary to constitutionally guaranteed privacy rights. [[12.50 hours]] It would refer to the requirements of the Office for Personal Data Protection. It could, in principle, end before the Constitutional Court. The petitioner has dealt with this by working with the anonymity of the data stored in the database. The anonymity isn't 100% reliable, I'd come up with a very easy protocol to pull individual personal data from the database about specific people if I knew who I wanted to pull out of it. This may be the problem that arises even with the database so designed. I will allow myself to offer the Minister an entirely opposite offer. If the Minister agrees that the register of teaching staff should be dropped, I offer to deliver a prepared proposal to him, which records the necessary staff in education, because this proposal is written, I offered it to the Ministry at the time when the law on teaching workers was being discussed, but the Ministry was not interested in it at the time. What is needed today is to know the personnel needs of the schools and keep track of this. When I asked the Minister in writing how much it cost to determine the factual situation of those unqualified workers in the case of the Education Act, I received a written reply that it did not cost any additional costs, because this data is available at the Ministry of Education today and the relevant unions have it. I accept that the answer was incorrect, not entirely true, and that a more systematic approach is needed, so be it. But the registry that is supposed to be introduced today is not the answer to those needs, it will not be a guide for the faculty of education. I stress that not only teaching faculties in the Czech Republic educate teachers. In the Czech Republic there are fifty faculties that prepare teachers, and they are faculties of science, faculty of philosophy or Faculty of Informatics, so even those requirements of teaching faculties, if they exist, are only a minority. The analysis of the effects of this law states that the direct costs on the part of the Ministry for the establishment will be CZK 2.8 million, which is higher than what the Minister said today. It states that the additional costs will be 700,000 per year for operating the system, but at the same time it is stated that they are not included in this and it is not possible to estimate the costs incurred by each school by adjusting the software that will be needed for this method of reporting. I stress that this will be a way of reporting where anonymous data will be reported, schools will actually report data, where they will have to report some of the data they have in their standard personnel records, and such a database is not an example of a good eGovernment, as is written in the explanatory memorandum. It's an egovernment parody. Unfortunately, I have to state this as a person whose primary professional area is computer science, information society. I teach egovernment in college and what is written in the explanatory note to this eGovernment law, it just isn't true. It's not true at all. And the last thing that is very important and what I think has been said by the Minister here is the reference to European money and the problem of drawing European funds. Problem with § 16 para. 5 is already solved, but I would point out that I mentioned at second reading how astronomical amounts are in these projects. Over the last six years, in the overview I have at my disposal, these were several projects whose overall planned height was CZK 758 million, or more than a quarter of a billion. The money was 706 million, and there are projects that didn't meet the plan. The planned purchase of tested equipment was not realized and nothing special happened. Of the total of 257 million, 242 million were happily drawn. That's the VIP3 project or the RAMPS VIP3 project. I have detailed records of the individual projects concerned. That sum, if you want to see what's worth three quarters of a billion, it's these papers. [[He's showing the file.]] These are the ministerial projects that generally promise that some new way of testing is going to be done, which is supposed to be better than the previous one. This is what Europe's money is claimed for. No one there cares that promises are not fulfilled, more and more are still planned happily. I understand this motivation from the Ministry slightly why it wants it, but I'm not completely understood with such a waste. From a positive point of view, there have been mention of assistants and the need for systemic funding. The EPS programme is being prepared at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports - an effective guidance system in education, which is planned again for another 270 million crowns. And the moment you look at what the Ministry is coming up with, the amounts involved are the amounts to be spent on further development of methodologies. Verification of quality standards in educational counselling facilities 42 million. Verification of the certification process. Integration of support measures 40 million. Diagnosis and intervention should have a total of 158 million. At the moment you read what is planned there, it is the acquisition of new methods suitable not only for school work and support in the field of diagnosis by psychologists, special pedagogues, but also methods suitable for teachers. I think here is the key to why we had to argue so long about § 16 para. 5. Here in these amounts I... I wanted to speak to the Minister, I wanted to commend him that he stepped aside from making that Section 16 para. 5 could have served as a cover for drawing these parts, but I don't think the Minister cares, so I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u29	Thank you. For the record, today's third reading session takes up to one hour, so we will proceed as they are logged in now with a factual remark. The first point of fact is that of Mr Kořenek. You're surrendering, okay. Then it is signed here with the factual remark of Mr Kostřica. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm only going to let the House of Honor get acquainted with such personal experience. I worked as an expert in the Republic of Malta for seven years under the former regime before 1990 and besides me there were a number of experts, there were about 60 to 80 children experts at the first and second levels of schooling. The then government banned a school other than the Soviet school that was there. All except the three poor children, who from 60 to 70 attended education in Azbuka, were educated by mothers or fathers. I can say that in my experience, everyone gained very good knowledge and their results, when they were then evaluated during the tests in the Czech Republic, were found to be one of the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since we have one hour, I am interrupting this point and interrupting it by Friday morning until 9:00 a.m. Now it's lunch break. I'm gonna ask for an organizational committee to meet in three minutes, as usual. The negotiations will continue at 14.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-010-098.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. As the first point we have classified
