ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u1	67. Proposal of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region for the Act amending and supplementing Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on the Forests and on the Amendment and Supplement to Certain Acts (Forest Act), as amended /the House Print 367/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that the proposal is submitted pursuant to § 90 para. 2, so that we can agree with the bill in the first reading. The Government's position has been delivered to you as the House Press 367/1. I record the priority right of Mr Kalousek, President of the TOP 09 and the starosta. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it will certainly not surprise you to take on behalf of two clubs, TOP 09 and ODS, allow me to say a courteous veto against the proceedings under Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u3	Thank you. I therefore register the veto according to § 90 para. 2, we will therefore deal with the draft law in standard mode. Under the authority of the council of the bill tabled, the Governor of the Central Bohemia Region, Miloš Petera, who I welcome among us and I ask him to take the floor. Welcome, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region, I present to you the amendment to the Forest Law concerning the regulation of state property rights in the territory of forests in the Czech Republic. At its meeting on 22 December 2014, the Government adopted a neutral opinion on the draft law. The proposal was delivered to the Members on 5 December 2014 as House Press 367/0. Forest land owned by the state accounts for 59.8% of all forests in the Czech Republic. However, the size of the state forests is gradually decreasing. Private forest owners and entrepreneurs in the forest-wood sector have been demanding a reduction in the area of state forests for the benefit of non-state actors for a long time. Recently, this request was interpreted by the Minister of Finance with a proposal for the sale of state forests in the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Only the Forests of the Czech Republic are the permanent contribution of several billion crowns per year to the Treasury. On the contrary, private owners demand from the State the payment of financial compensation not only for the environmental benefits of forests for society, such as water management, soil protection, climate, social and health, but also for the mere respect of forest law, whose compliance with them reduces the achievement of immediate maximum profits from logging. Non-state owners create lobbyist pressures and demand a significant release of the legal provisions of the Forest Act as well as the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. They even openly demand legalization of the fees for entering private forests, for collecting mushrooms and berries, for aesthetic perceptions from nature or for the health enjoyment of clean air. We can listen to these harsh association requirements at almost all wood-and-wood gatherings and conferences and have been published in forestry and other journals for a long time. At first, it could make it laugh, then shocked later, and now it is quite clear that it is necessary to defend itself effectively against the sale of forest land in the state's property. Forests owned by the state are the last significant national wealth that has not yet been privatised. State forests are vast material wealth and, with sound and controlled management, they bring several billion to the budget each year. However, their considerable economic importance is highly exaggerated by their importance in society. During the period of climate change associated with extreme rainfall and temperature fluctuations of weather, the functions of forest ecosystems in our landscape become of greater importance and ecological interest. The protection of state ownership of forests in the current scope thus becomes the highest public interest. It would therefore be a fundamental political mistake if steps were taken to further privatise the state-owned forests. The basic legislation for forest management is Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on Forests, which regulates rules for forest management and forest management regardless of ownership. However, the existing application of that law has shown in practice that the legal provisions in question are not sufficient. Surely you have not yet forgotten the media proclamations of representatives of past governments about their intention to privatise state forests. The constant pressures of lobbyists and business entities seeking to privatise state-owned forests continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region complies with the national forestry programme approved by Government Resolution No. 1221 of 2008, which states - I quote - "to preserve the present share of state forests while respecting the results of the restitution process and to create conditions for their arondation, i.e. the consolidation and sale of small forest assets'. However, this government adopted the conclusion of the national forestry programme remained, even after seven years of mere declaration, unfulfilled by legal provisions. How it is documented from the Ministry of Agriculture materials, respectively. The state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic, the state-owned forests each year bring billions of profits to the state. The representative of the Central Bohemia Region's proposal for the legislative anchoring of the inalienability of forests in state property guarantees that, in transparent management and its consistent control, forests will be a permanent source of regular significant revenues of the state budget in the order of several billions per year. The adoption of the amendment to the Act on the Inalienability of State Forests will establish the maintenance of a high share of state forests in accordance with the already adopted but not yet fulfilled principles of state forestry policy. The coalition treaty between the political parties and the movement of the current government contains a commitment to the inalienability of forests in state property. It was signed on 6 January 2014. The Coalition Government was appointed President of the Republic on 29 January 2014. In the coalition agreement, this government explicitly committed itself to not privatising state forests and to imposing provisions on the inalienability of state forests into the law. It hasn't happened yet. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Therefore, the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region took its legal initiative to enforce the inalienability of forests in the state's property and proposed a small amendment to prevent the transfer of forests in the state's property in its current scope to other persons, and at the end it submitted a proposal for a small amendment to Forestry Act No. 289/1995 Coll., which would ensure this requirement. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress that the proposal of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region does not affect any undoubtedly proven restitution claims which have not yet been settled for various reasons even by other provisions of the applicable Forest Act No. 289/1995 Coll. Because the proposal of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region contains only an urgent amendment to one paragraph, namely § 4 Dealing with forests owned by the State of Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests, all possible comments on the draft law can be addressed by amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I would like to stress that the purpose of the bill amendment is to secure state-owned forests from further unwanted privatisations, with the exception of legitimate restitutions which have not yet been settled. If the state retains most of the area of forests, it will be he who, even in future difficult conditions, will decide and determine forestry, ecological and social policies in the forests for the benefit of all citizens of the Czech Republic. I therefore appeal to you with confidence in your support of the draft amendment to the forest law submitted by the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u5	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, let me present to you the news report on this amendment which is being amended and supplemented by Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of some laws, the so-called forest law, as amended. This proposal was submitted on the basis, as you have heard, of the legislative initiative of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region, which proposed its discussion in accordance with § 90 para. 2, which was rejected by two clubs. [[16.40 hours]] According to the petitioner, the main objective of the amendment is to prevent the destruction of forests. The petitioner of the amendment relies on the need to adopt a law on experience in practice, when the current rules assess as insufficient. It also points out the amount of pressure from business entities promoting the privatisation of state-owned forests or the pursuit of long-term lease of these forests for farming. The proposed modifications are in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. The proposal does not directly implement European Union law and will have no negative effects on the state budget. The provisions relating to the destruction of state forests are contained both in the Government's programming declaration and in the Coalition Treaty, as has already been said here. However, the Government expressed a neutral opinion on the draft amendment at its meeting on 22 December 2014. However, I would now like to draw attention to some formulational and legislative shortcomings that could lead in future to interpretation and application problems in the approval of this amendment to the Forests Act. First of all, it must be said that the authors of the amendment already argue in the very formulation of the starting point in point 1.2 of the explanatory report that by alienating forests owned by the State, there is a significant reduction in the social functions of the forest. It should be noted here that the extent to which the forest performs its functions is completely independent of whether it is the owner of the State, the municipality, the region, the public school, the church or the private person. The claim from the explanatory memorandum is not supported by any verifiable findings or results of relevant research. It therefore considers them purely purposeful, which degenerates thousands of non-state forest owners such as municipalities, regions, public schools, churches and private individuals. The second major problem arising from the wording of paragraph 1.3 of the explanatory memorandum is that the proposal cannot be regarded as a refinement of the rules, since it is essential to ban the total destruction of the state forest without clearly defining any exceptions. This is particularly relevant for the future of the desired arondation transfers of forests to the ownership of higher local authorities for the needs of, for example, the teaching of pupils in secondary forestry schools. I would also like to draw attention to Government Resolution No. 710 of 18 September 2013, which reflects precisely the necessity of these transfers and in which the production was also attended by the Secondary Forestry School and the Secondary Training Centre Křivoklát, Písky, which is part of the Central Bohemia Region. It is also not possible to ignore the almost inevitable problems that would arise within the framework of the ongoing restitution transfers. The argument that the amendment is put forward because of the possible pressures of influential business entities on the long-term lease of state forests for farming is again considered wrong or purposefully formulated. In this regard, the proposer neglected the fact that the rent and sublease of the state forest for the purpose of farming is in accordance with the applicable § 5 para. 1 of Law No. 289/1999 Coll. excluded without exception. The amendment would also result in many legislative inaccuracies described in the Government's opinion, which I also sign up for. Overall, I consider this bill to be completely unnecessary. The current legislation allows the transfer of the forest owned by the State to other persons only provided the prior consent of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic, which I consider to be a sufficient guarantee. For these reasons, I will propose, within the framework of the debate, the rejection of this proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u7	I thank the rapporteur and therefore open a general debate, which Mrs Věra Kovářová joined first. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to reject the proposal, but I consider some of its shortcomings to be so serious that we should discuss this proposal very carefully. As stated in the Government's opinion, the draft is not as perfect as it is considered by the submitters in the explanatory memorandum. Among the government's complaints, we will find a warning about the lack of development of exceptions to the ban on the disposal of state forests. It could thus affect completely legitimate processes, such as restitutions, including ecclesiastical ones. A minor turn: When I asked about this danger as a Central Bohemia representative, Deputy Director Semerád told me that there was no danger. Which was supposed to prove some kind of legal expertise. That's why I asked for her. But even after almost half a year, I didn't get a chance to meet her. This also leads me to believe that it will be necessary to reject this draft if not immediately, so to discuss it thoroughly in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Among them, also in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because of the impact of this law on the small municipalities mentioned by the petitioners. In the committees, it may also finally be possible to get acquainted with the legal expertise that Deputy Director Semerád is keeping to himself for the time being.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Now with priority rights, Minister of Culture. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u10	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues. The proposal of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region for the Act amending and supplementing Act 289/1995 Coll., on the Forests and amending and supplementing certain laws, as amended, is submitted on the basis of the Resolution of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region of 15 September 2014. Its aim is to prevent the disposal of forest land owned by the State. As much as it is possible to share with the petitioners an effort to preserve forests for national wealth and to ensure increased conservation of nature and landscape, it must be pointed out that the proposed bill has fundamental formulational shortcomings, as it does not, for example, contain exceptions to the disposal of land owned by the State, which could cause serious interpretation and application problems in the future. In particular, there is no provision in the draft law that the proposed ban on the disposal of forest land will not apply to restitution transfers or transfer of land owned by the State into the possession of higher local authorities for teaching purposes at secondary forestry schools in accordance with Government Resolution of 18 January 2013 No 710. In its opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture pointed out these problems and shortcomings, with the Government discussing and adopting a neutral opinion at its meeting of 22 December 2014. However, the reservations raised by the Ministry of Agriculture were reflected in it. In conclusion, I would therefore like to point out that only an adjustment which would take into account all these comments can be considered justified. On the basis of this information, I therefore propose rejection at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u11	I thank the Minister and the other duly enrolled in the debate is Mr Zdeněk Syblík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on 22 December 2014, the Government adopted a neutral opinion on the above-mentioned draft law of the Central Bohemian Region's representativeship, giving preference to the submission of its own government proposal. However, the Government's legislative work plan does not mention the draft amendment of the Forest Act. The Government sees certain shortcomings in the proposal submitted by the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region. Firstly, in the proposal of the Central Bohemia Region, there are no specific exceptions to the ban on the disposal of forest land owned by the State, or that the ban on alienation should not apply to restitution transfers. The approved and pending restitution claims are addressed by the applicable forest law in § 4 in para. 2 to 10, in this novel marked as 3 to 11. In particular, in paragraphs 3, respectively. 4. The submitted amendment to the Forest Law does not affect these paragraphs in any way. Furthermore, the Government notes in its opinion that the ban on the disposal of forest land owned by the State should not apply to the transfer of land owned by the State to the ownership of higher local authorities for teaching purposes in secondary forestry schools. [[16.50 hours]] As regards the needs of forestry schools, the proposed amendment does not prevent this from being taught in other new school fields, since this can be done in accordance with Section 8 (2) of the Treaty. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (d) which reads: Serving forestry research and forestry teaching. Furthermore, the Government argues that the draft amendment of the Act does not address the relationship with the provisions of Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended, which regulates the ban on the disposal of forests in the territory of national parks, national nature reserves and national natural monuments. The law on conservation of nature and landscape provides for this inalienability of forests in state property in paragraphs 23, 29 and 35. The representative of the Central Bohemia Region proposed by the amendment to the Forest Act is therefore in full compliance with the wording of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. Since the proposal of the Representation of the Central Bohemia Region contains only the amendment of one paragraph, Section 4 of the Act, the petitioner considers that the Government's comments in the draft law can be addressed by amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies. It is therefore not necessary to reject the entire bill and thus stop the entire legislative process. Forest land owned by the state with a current area of 1 million 533 thousand hectares, which is about 60 percent of all forests in the Czech Republic, is the last significant national wealth that has not yet been privatised. If we count the average supply of wood 264 cubic meters per hectare and its average price is about CZK 17072, which is an indication from the report on the state of the forest from the Ministry of Agriculture, then the value of forests owned by the state is only up to CZK 440 billion. The value added in the production, production and demand on the market may be increased up to twice as much as the price of the logs. During the period of global climate change associated with extreme weather fluctuations, the functions of forest ecosystems in our landscape become even more important in the public interest. The protection of state ownership of forests in the current scope thus becomes the highest public interest. Amendment to Act No. 219/2013 Sb. with effect from 1 January 2014, on the property of the Czech Republic, in par. 6 Paragraph 60a repeals the binding opinion of the Ministry of the Environment on the disposal of state land and property buildings in specially protected areas, with the exception of national parks, national nature reserves and national monuments specifically protected by paragraphs 23, 32 and 35 of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. This amendment opened the possibility of alienating state forests in the territory of a protected landscape area, nature reserves and natural monuments. The total area is 600,000 hectares of state land intended to fulfil the functions of the forest. How is it documented from the Ministry of Agriculture material, respectively. The Forests of the Czech Republic, the state-owned forests each year bring billions of profits to the state. Therefore, for the above reasons: The Central Bohemia Region understands this initiative to protect the inalienability of forests in state property and proposes this small amendment. I stress that this proposal does not affect in any way the undeniably proven restitution claims which have not been settled for various reasons up to now, or other provisions of the applicable forest law, nor does it affect the provisions on forests in specially protected parts of nature under the applicable law on nature and landscape conservation. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to release this proposal to the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u13	I thank Mr Syblík. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u14	Mr President, colleagues, honourable members of the government, Mr Governor, allow me to comment on this bill. And just to point out, in the absence of a minister who has the Forests of the Czech Republic in Georgia, we are actually accustomed to this, that the Minister of Agriculture does not participate in the question of the legal proceedings relating to this department. So just a comment, rather a sigh of the fact that the Minister seems to have something more important to do than to address the issues of the Czech Forests in Parliament. I would like to say to the Governor, I do not know if I must, through the President, that the Minister of Agriculture is planning significantly on reducing the profits of the Forests of the Czech Republic in the order of billions in the official material he recently presented. This is just a comment when we say how much of the Forests of the Czech Republic we could have in the future. If you look at the fact that it wants to double the number of employees and reduce profits in the future, which I feel sorry, but it is a government concept and a government proposal and a government idea of how we imagine the forests of the Czech Republic in the future. I think that is a pity and it would be good if the Minister of Agriculture had the opportunity to comment on this, as well as on the issue of the management of the sale of wood, since I have intersected the Minister here on the matter of the Czech Forests, where the sale of state timber is being brokered by a company which has not been selected and which collects millions of crowns per year for the possibility of selling state wood. It's just so you can imagine that in the woods everything isn't always okay. I agree with one of the previous speakers who said that there is an unnecessary increase in the administration of state forests over the management of private individuals in the area of forest management or municipal forests, which we also do not have enough in the Czech Republic. I consider this legislation, even if one paragraph, to be redundant. Today, the government is deciding whether forests will be privatised, not privatised, and I am passing on the mention of Mr. Andrej Babiš's first Deputy Prime Minister, who recently mentioned that there might also be a way to improve the state budget management. I'm totally passing this, I'm just saying that I think the government has enough competence to cover this section. Then I also want to stress the fact that I know from practice that not only private people, but also municipalities often strive for the territory that now belongs to the Forests of the Czech Republic, and the territorial plans are characterized by the territory as a forest area, if you like, but maybe the nature of forests has changed from economic to recreational and municipalities want to use this recreational forest to move the public and to install various resting facilities, etc. If we applied this draft paragraph consistently, it would mean that we would not be able to accommodate municipalities in this regard. That is why I am very attached to what the Minister of Culture has said here, and I support his proposal to reject this bill at first reading, and I will do so if he does not do so in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u15	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, with a point of fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u16	Mr President, colleagues, if memory does not deceive me, Minister Jurečka is at the V4 Agriculture Ministers' meeting, so it is really nothing insignificant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u17	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Another duly registered member is Mr Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u18	Thank you for the floor. I am extremely going to comment on a subject on which I am certainly not an expert, but I think it is a matter which is to a large extent fundamental and which concerns how to deal with the state's property. Whether we should hand it over to private hands in the future or, on the contrary, try to keep it in the hands of the state. I'm in favour of trying to do the other thing. In my opinion, this bill is a solution which is right and which will prevent any government from deciding to privatise or sell part of such significant assets without the House dealing with it. And our colleagues have already talked about that significance. I think that the economic benefit is so considerable that, in my opinion, we should not allow anyone else to profit from the profit that is undoubtedly out of the woods and will be there when they can profit from the state. Of course, there are conditions. I don't think it's automatic; that someone has ownership, that is, that the state owns something doesn't mean that it's always profitable, even though it can be profitable. I am convinced that the Forests need to be better driven. Unfortunately, opaque selection procedures or e.g. expenditure on marketing, absolutely outrageous expenditures that appeared not only in the Forests of the Czech Republic, in my opinion, clearly did not testify that the Forests were guided in the right way. And I think that we should also consider how to help the Czech economy by not only putting money in the Czech Republic's state budget but also investing it. It's a little weird when the one who makes money from the wood processing industry, the wood processing we have here, is often the one who's just outside the borders, using the wood mining in the Czech Republic, he makes money across the border from the fact that the wood is very easy to process, and the wood is brought back and here it is working with. I think it would be ideal - and it is a guide for the Minister of Agriculture to consider whether he would, for example. just investments in the wood processing industry could not be financed through the Forests of the Czech Republic, which could undoubtedly lead to an increase in the number of jobs. But I believe it will be consistent with the concept. I think there are two options. Either we leave these things as they are, and in the future, the government can decide in five, ten, twenty years that it will sell part of the forest. Or we will say we will adopt this law - then at least a majority of the Chamber of Deputies will always be needed to overrule the Senate. Or we will say that we will adopt a constitutional law not only on the Forests, but perhaps on other enterprises that we agree on it, it will be a broad consensus, and for possible sale it will require the approval of three fifths of the House and three fifths of the Senate or another mechanism that would set up the Constitutional Act. I'm glad the law was vetoed. Not because I do not wish to approve it as soon as possible, but I think that even the petitioners recognise that it needs to be adjusted. That is, if it is referred to committees, and I would like to support that, I think we are able to find the wording of these paragraphs very quickly in order to satisfy the objections that have been raised here, e.g. which concerned shifts and others. That means the technical solution is ready, it's written, I'm familiar with it and I'm happy to make it available to everyone if the proposal goes through the committees. I don't think there's any reason for us to reject the motion and go back to it in a few months. koneckonců all, he waited a few months for approval, and I think he would have deserved a debate in the committees, no matter what the plenary decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u19	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Thank you, Mr Tejc. I have an actual application from my colleague Bendl. Before I give him my word, I will state my apologies - Mr František Adámek from 16.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, for health reasons Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes from 15 to 16.30 and also apologises for today's meeting from 15.30 to 17.00 for working reasons Mr Igor Jakubčík. I would now ask Mr Bendl to take the floor in his point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to tell Prime Minister Bělobrádek through you that this is not a law that suffers any delay, and that the Minister of Agriculture could certainly ask us to discuss this material another time. First of all. And two. If it were the first time, I would say yes, I understand, the Minister had to leave not suddenly, suddenly at the V4 meeting, which is planned at least six months in advance. This really is not in favour of the Margo of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Vice-President of the Government through the President. Yes, I understand what Mr Tejc said. I very much agree with that. It is a škoda that marketing spending has always been the biggest under ministers of the government of social democracy. But otherwise, I agree to watch this, it's okay. And the Minister of Agriculture had the opportunity to comment on this, if necessary, and it was so in the past that we were even in common hands, because the opposition representatives were in the Forest Supervisory Board at the time, so we have always discussed this and reduced expenditure in this area. Just as we dealt with the system for the sale of wood in the Forests of the Czech Republic. I am once again stressing, Mr President, that we have come up with a novelty. Or this government or the Ministry of Agriculture came forward with news that it was selling wood to state forests through a company that had not undergone a selection procedure, in whose bodies it was still 14 days or three weeks before he joined the Deputy Director-General, a man who then signed this contract with a company in which he had previously worked and worked in its statutory bodies, and where they agreed on a million-dollar contract each year. Last year, five and a half, this year about eleven. [[Notice of expiry of the time limit for a factual remark.]] It's just to the edge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u21	Thank you. Mr Jeroným Tejc has now made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u22	I do not wish to argue with Mr Bendl about when the costs were greatest. Maybe we'll tell each other that, or we'll tell each other. He can say it specifically. But I did find a number. In 2010 - and social democracy has not been with the government since 2006 - the costs per year were 100 million in the Forests. CZK for its own promotion and sponsorship. I think that these are amounts that are really not appropriate. Now I don't want to accuse the ODS, which at the time had the Department of Agriculture, I suspect it was Minister Fuksa, that the amounts went somewhere else they weren't supposed to. But I'm sure it's something we've been focusing on. And I am glad that under this government there is a reduction in marketing items, in a strong way not only in the Forests of the Czech Republic, but in the Czech Post and others. Unfortunately, whatever governments it was, I got the impression that, as the way funds were gradually exchanged from state-owned companies, it was once legal services, then it changed to marketing services and eventually it turned into IT services, because for all the three types, unfortunately, it is very difficult to prove whether the price is the equivalent of the value that is passed on, because when cars are bought when pencils are bought, the price is always comparable. It's not for these things. And I am glad that we agree that marketing spending for the Forests of the Czech Republic should not be a priority. That's what I think is most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u23	Thank you, Mr Jeroný Tejc. Now Mr Miroslav Kalousek's factual remark, then Mr Bendl's proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u24	Thank you for the floor. I am only very briefly by your means to Mr Tejc. I don't have a detailed overview and I've never had a chance to manage the Forests of the Czech Republic. It's a state enterprise, the founder was the Minister of Agriculture. I don't want to argue about your words. But I know one thing for sure. Under our rule, no member of our government, the less her first vice-president, won billions of tender at this place. I'm sure of it, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u25	I thank Mr Kalousek for his time. Mr Petr Bendl's proper application now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u26	Thank you. Since my time was short, I'm gonna finish up. And during our reign, no one suggested privatizing the Forests of the Czech Republic. So it's like it's scary that something like this might be in danger or something like that - it's not a threat! No one wants to privatize the forests of the Czech Republic. Rather, we draw attention to the fact that the forest management categories are really changing and that sometimes, at the time of the development of municipalities, cities develop from an economic forest that is already inefficient in terms of forest management, it becomes a recreational forest or some other and municipalities want to use it, and it is pointless to deprive the government of the possibility that in terms of volume, quantity of forests that are in the Czech Republic, it could not decide that either the municipality or the city will acquire part of the forest, which is no longer suitable for farming, into its property. First of all. And two. It has been emphasized several times that the paragraph ban of any transfer - any transfer! - doesn't concern church restitution. There is a need to say that it can simply happen that some economic units will prove completely disadvantageous and there will be a need for shifts, etc., which they will have, and that is correct, and the government should be completely in control and should be able to intervene in accordance with the quality of the forests of the Czech Republic. It is pointless that we then change the law to give the government the opportunity to make such a transaction. I consider this to be unnecessarily bureaucratic and redundant, because this government, at least you say so, does not want to privatise the Forests of the Czech Republic and the previous governments have shown no interest in this. I don't know anybody who's gonna do something like that here, I'm gonna say, super significantly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u27	I thank Mr Bendl. I'm asking my colleague Stanjura whether it's a priority right or a factual one. With priority. In that case, first of all, with a factual remark, Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just wanted to say, my fellow Members, that I see the draft law that is here, as it is written, that the economic dimension of the Forests of the Czech Republic is of course a serious problem, but the principle here is that the State retains its share of the forest land fund, and from this point of view, the provision that is proposed - state forests cannot be alienated; For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 5, and then I see the displacement of the paragrafo-enhanced text, which is in the current legislation, from this point of view, as a problem-free, and the proposal that is put forward here, is highly justified and has my support, because I think it will retain precisely the social seriousness and importance of the function of forests for environmental impact and in terms of precisely influencing the interests of the private forest owners concerned, of course, also the municipalities, because the regulator will thus be preserved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u29	I thank Mr Grospič for his time on the point of fact. One more factual comment by Mr Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here I have heard and heard all of us - as what kind of privatisation? Nobody ever wanted to, not even a step towards it! But there was a time when it was officially said that no one ever wanted to privatize, not even a little bit, but there was a rumor that something was going on, and because it wasn't a social atmosphere, it didn't start. But there's always been danger. I just want to point out that we have always held, as a KSČM club, that forests held by the state cannot be alienated, even by transforming it into, for example, a stock company with 100% ownership of the state, that, therefore, with the exception of justified arondation, i.e. alignment, exchanges in terms of exchange of illogically stored units for other, more logically stored units and so on, that we will not support this proposal, because the proposal submitted is entirely in line with this long-term KSČM approach and gives a certain guarantee that anyone can let go for at least a longer period of time, so we will support this proposal. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u31	Thank you, and one more de facto... [[She's pulled out.]] And now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proper application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u32	Thank you for the floor. It is not the first time that I, colleagues, have turned to you to discuss and approve a law that is completely unnecessary. And that's one of them. In our constitutional system, the government responds to the Chamber of Deputies, and in order for the government to function, there is a presumption that it will have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. I think the privatisation decision is for executives, the government. Although I am an opposition Member, I do not think that the Chamber of Deputies should decide this and that it is too legislative but too efficient. But even if, if any government, this or any other government, decides it wants to privatize one hectare or a hundred hectares, and now add some number that is in the property of the Czech Republic today, it will make it, and because it has a majority, it will cancel this unnecessary law. That's breaking. As far as I know, this is not going to happen, and if the government is going to set it up, this or any other, it will have the strength to abolish or change this bill to enforce its political agenda. Then I don't know what the law is for. It's not the law that it's going to be for ever and never otherwise, even if we happen to accept it. It will be valid for as long as a government majority decides that the law doesn't suit her, that she wants to sell part or all of this or any other state property. I understand that the Communists support it. They would like to adopt the law that everything belongs to the socialist country. They've always thought they'd like to take it to private owners, and it's their political agenda that I don't agree with, which I'm against. I'm not surprised. I am surprised that this is a proposal that is supported by government MPs. Some, to be exact. Some government MPs. It's your government that decides or doesn't decide. It is not an opposition proposal where the opposition would be afraid, but even if it were afraid, I suggest that we stick to the standard division of roles - privatisation is decided by executives, power-efficient, and power-legal approves legislative environments. Let's not play government, let's not play this bill, even if it's approved to solve something. It will be resolved until any government decides, for example, to sell some of the property of the Forests of the Czech Republic. So the proposal is completely useless. There's been a motion to dismiss. I'll support it for these reasons. Not because I propose privatization of the Forests of the Czech Republic or their property, but because it belongs to the Government and not to the Chamber of Deputies, such a decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u33	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now with the factual remark Pavel Kováčik, then Mr Josef Kott. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u34	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, Mr Stanjur, do not be frightened! If you read our program, you know that we are in favour of a mixed economy, where there is room for a market economy, truth with social and ecological dimensions. A mixed economy where, of course, it pays off to the state and citizens, but there are different things, and the strategic ones especially, when the state should still have the finger laid on it more. I don't think we can talk about the socialist homeland right now, because we don't have socialism here, we have hard capitalism here, sometimes with features of the 19th century. But citizens have to deal with that one by one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u35	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Mr Josef Kott is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u36	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to assure you, through you, that President Stanjura, that the ANO parliamentary club will also vote to reject this proposal, because, like you, we see it that way, and we feel that this is completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u37	I thank Mr Kotta for his time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u38	When I said some government MPs, I looked in the right direction. Just so we're clear. That's why I said some of them, and I talked about those who did the debate and who supported it. It won't do me any good not to respond to President Kováčik's words. It's true I don't read the Communist Party program. I mean, no one can ask me to do that, and I'm not even gonna read it. And I'm not scared. I'm based on experience. That's not idle concern, but that's the reality from 1948 to 1989, how if you could decide how you could have a mixed economy, I don't know what you mixed up, whether Soviet ownership and our ownership, but there was no mixed economy. So I'm not scaring you. Fortunately, you don't have the strength to implement it. I was just saying that I understand your political attitude, that you stand for it in the long run, and I respect that, even though I really don't agree with it in principle, and I will always do everything I can to keep your proposals from going through, because in this case, it is pointless. And I confess that I'm not really reading or reading the Communist Party program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u39	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr Pavel Kováčik will also respond in a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u40	Through you, Mr President. Well, that's a shame, colleague, 'cause maybe I'm reading your program. And maybe even because you have the program you have, and you've progressed in the recent past, more recent than the ancient one you've been talking about, the way you're progressing, the way you're measuring your strength and our strength, fortunately, we're better off - something, sorry. But again, please don't be scared. True, many mistakes have been made and I would like to point out, for example, because of these mistakes and because we have learned from them, the current and future KSČM programme does not count on any nationalization, because - in the words of the classic - only an ox repeats the same mistake twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u41	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. Now, Mr Petr Bendl in a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u42	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief, because I think the Governor here is rather suffering from coming here with a proposal that is not a typical regional issue. Rather, he was forced by some political circumstances in the council, but it certainly is not something that would really bother any county council. I think we all feel it, who's going to think it's not something that the Central Bohemia Region would really worry about. That the state, eventually government, would for the future, future governments would want to sell 100 ha or give some community 50 ha forest and so on. I don't think that's the point. The situation is different. Communists and Social Democrats simply rule the Central Bohemia Council, and the Governor must always find his way around it. I brought a problem here, but it is typically a government problem, not a typical regional problem. And I would like to constructively say about the proposal that I am also in favour of rejecting this bill, that it would be good for the Czech Republic's forests to draw up a draft concept that is already economically inefficient, that the government will adopt a conceptual position for the future, because we are talking about it - and I paradoxically agree with you, and with the left part of the spectrum - that we should simply focus on the economy of the Czech Republic's forests, and if there are any parts that are not economically in order, they will not be economically sustainable, why not change them and then talk about how conceptually the territory of the Forests of the Czech Republic or State-owned forests should continue to look. In the meantime, I wouldn't really have closed this trip with this redundant law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u43	I thank Mr Bendl. Before I close the debate, I state that another apology has come from this afternoon's meeting. Mr Petr Kořenek apologizes from 16.30 pm. Since no one's checking in, I don't see anyone reporting from the scene, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Governor? Yes. For the proposing Central Bohemian Region, Governor Miloš Petera. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u44	Mr President, honourable Members, I am very glad that I have had a little bit of a rich discussion here. It's a good thing you're interested in the issue of state forests. You know, I've already remembered something since 1990. I'm my professional water man. There we also heard that you can't privatize water and other things, but that happened. There was gold stock, it was legal, and the gold stock was to be held through the Ministry of Agriculture and it didn't. That's why I think it's good to have the law and make it harder. I know the government can change it and suggest it, but we can make it harder for it, and we can have another discussion about it. That's what I think very underestimating those who are against the law. Because forests aren't just woodmaking. These are also water resources, these are other commodities that are found in the forest. And already in ancient Rome and Greece, they were called - air, water, light should remain a state, and taxes and charges should not be levied on them. We've already resigned from those taxes. That's where we're picking. So please, I wanted to ask you to consider whether it would be wrong for the parliament in which you represent all ten million people to declare that the forests are important to you and that they will remain in the state's property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u45	Thank you to Mr. Governor of Central Bohemia, Miloš Peter. Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to conclude by saying that, of course, I also think that forests have a very important function both in the water and in the social and other areas. They give the opportunity to employ hundreds of thousands of people in each region. I believe that even if we do not approve of this amendment, the state will keep the forest in its possession as long as possible, because it is, as we have found in recent years, an excellent flow of funds into the Treasury. Just to sum up, there were a total of eight speakers in the debate, some of them repeatedly, and a total of ten Members made a point of fact, some of them repeatedly. We talked to Mr. Speaker Petera that we thought the novel was so simple that it would pass quickly, but it is obvious that agriculture and forests are a very interesting topic for many of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-005-067.u47	I thank Mr Herbert Paver for his news report. Before we look at the proposals for decisions that have been made in the debate or other proposals, I note another note from this afternoon's meeting. At 5:30 p.m., Mr. Home Secretary Milan Chovanec apologizes. I ask the rapporteur to check on me. If my remarks are correct, there was a motion in the debate to dismiss from my colleague, Minister Daniel Herman, whom we will have to decide on the vote that I will begin. So far, I've launched a gong so that colleagues who are in the lobby can take a vote. We will vote on the motion for rejection in order number one vote. I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. When the number of people present is settled - that is right now - we will vote on the motion for rejection. I have begun the vote by order number 101 and I ask who is in favour of the motion to dismiss. Who's against it? Voting order number 101, from 146 in favour of 74, against 69. The motion was accepted. If no one objects to the registration, then we will consider the proposal accepted and end the discussion of this point, that is, paragraph 67. Thank you to the Governor, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point No. 67. [[17.30 hours]] According to the approved agenda, we will address the item:
