ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence: Mrs Adamová - health reasons, Mrs Balaštíková - health reasons, Mr Holeček - personal reasons, Vice-President Jermanová - health reasons, Mr Sedláček within 15 hours - personal reasons, Mr Tureček - foreign travel, Mr Vondrášek - health reasons, Mr Zemánek - foreign travel. Minister Babiš apologizes from the members of the government - working reasons, Minister Marksová - working reasons, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Ťok - working reasons, Minister Válková - health reasons, Minister Zaorálek - also health reasons. So many apologies. I'm gonna ask for peace. Thank you. I would first like to introduce you to the proposals that have emerged from today's Gremium. Today, Tuesday 10. 2. we would include the first three points on the agenda and discuss the laws returned to the Senate, which is printing 299/8, printing 300/5 and printing 339/7. It is an environmental impact assessment, public procurement and protection of the agricultural soil fund. Then we would continue with the point we placed last week, this is the security situation in the Czech Republic, point 108, and then we would continue with the fixed points, which means 60, 61, 62, 63, 18 and 19. Well, that's for today. Wednesday, 11. 2. we would discuss paragraph 99, which is printing 308, the law in third reading, as the first point, it is the law on the use of flats, then we would continue the 11 other bills in third reading and then already firmly classified points 28, 29 and 31. Thursday 12. 2. we would have discussed point 117, which is the subsidy programmes, the report, the press 373, as the first point. Please note that on Thursday, given that we have exhausted the written interpelation, the standard point of the written interpelations will not be from 9 to 11 o'clock, but the House will begin at 9 o'clock by negotiating the approved points directly and, therefore, the first would be paragraph 117. And last update - Friday 13. 2. we'd be putting polling points at 12.45 hours. So much for a grémium. I would like to remind you that at 7:00 p.m., we will continue the suspended 24th meeting. Now here I have applications for the agenda of the meeting. President Kalousek, with priority rights. I'm just going to ask President Kolovratník - given that the proposal is here from the Gremium - if you can then step out. [[Called - a reminder off the microphone.]] All right, so after President Kalousek, Mr Kolovratník will speak, then Mr Blažek. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Once again, I ask for peace so that the President in a dignified atmosphere can make his proposal known.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I hope you're all in a pleasant mood after January's fat paycheck, because since we've added so much, all the more you'll be more inclined to my proposal. Because I'm gonna ask you to put him in... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] Fichtner, Fichtner... Because I wanted to afford to ask you to put a new item on the agenda of today's meeting, which would be called an extraordinary - sorry - international conference on security in Munich. Given the situation that is in terms of international security, either at the eastern borders of Ukraine or in the Middle East, it probably was not this year and will not be more important to the international summit than the international conference on security in Munich. All European states... or governments -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u3	I'm really asking for peace. If anyone wants to discuss it, it's outside the boardroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u4	But I can be in the Chamber, Mr President, can't I?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u5	Of course you can continue, I tried to give you a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u6	Thank you. The governments of all European states at this conference were represented at the highest possible level. Her president, her prime minister, at least her foreign minister. It is precisely because everyone realizes that this summit was probably the most important international meeting on the safety and future of every citizen in Europe. No one was there for the government of the Czech Republic. In words, no one. It was a shock, on the one hand, and a very bitter confirmation of our already several months of ongoing belief that the prestige of the Czech government's international policy had plummeted, that we were not really interested in anyone. Nobody missed us there either. Worse still, the Czech government understands this problem very similarly: In principle, we do not care what we do there. At least the Minister of Foreign Affairs received an invitation for the Czech Government - out of decency. Not the Prime Minister, not the President as part of the executive, but the Foreign Minister. And the Foreign Minister apologized! What would he be doing there? So there were no words. [[Highly:]] If the Czech Government has renegade in this way, it should not resign Parliament and should not resign the Chamber of Deputies, which the Czech Government is responsible for. Again, in the last 25 years, the international security situation has never been as sensitive as it was this year. The International Conference in Munich was the ultimate, important summit where there was to be at least one representative of the Czech Government, where the position of the Czech Government was to be heard or where the Czech Government should at least be seen! If it was not there, it is reprehensible, and it would be even more reprehensible if the Chamber of Deputies had not dealt with it as a sovereign, as a supervisory body which the Czech Government confesses and answers to. I think that the Chamber of Deputies would deserve an explanation of why no one was present at the Czech Government. And I would very much appreciate, as the promoter of this proposal, if the Prime Minister found some less subtle excuse than that the Secretary of State's knee hurt. [[14.10 hours]] It may have hurt him, I don't want to suspect he made it up. But even if he still has a chicken eye, a barley grain and a wolf to his sore knee, all these serious ills together do not entitle the Foreign Minister to resign at such an important summit and to make the Czech Republic laugh at the domestic and foreign public. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies would deserve information from the only participant the Czech Republic had at this conference. He was chairman of the Karel Schwarzenberg Foreign Committee. He was not a representative of the Czech Government, but he was a representative of the Chamber of Deputies, he was a representative of the Czech Republic, he was the only direct participant, and I believe that we should all listen to the progress and conclusions of this conference, which we do not really think was a standard and marginal summit, and that the Chamber of Deputies should listen carefully to what was said there. I believe that the Czech Republic would deserve to have something more on this subject than the resolution of the Executive Committee on Social Democracy, where the poor sick Minister Zaorálek has been loitering. He didn't make it to Munich anymore, he's far, almost across the ocean. The Executive Committee of Social Democracy adopted a resolution on this subject, which is, of course, its right, but I think that the Chamber of Deputies should also discuss it and also adopt a resolution as a clear position of the Czech Republic, which will be heard when the Czech Government has already ignored this conference. I would therefore like to propose the inclusion of this point on Wednesday as the first point after lunch. And I hope, I implore you not to follow the example of the Czech Government so that we do not signal that we do not care. To make it clear that this matter concerns us and cannot affect us because it concerns the safety and future of every citizen in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u7	Thank you to President Kalousek. I now have the priority right of the Minister of Industry and Trade, but also the priority right is exercised by my colleague Sklenák. Yes. Chairman of the CSSD Club, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that the government Members are very often in favour of proposals similar to those put forward by President Kalousek. Let me just remind you that for today alone, we have two special points that the opposition has requested. We will discuss the security situation and immigration policy in the Czech Republic and at 19 o'clock we will return to a meeting dealing with the ammunition warehouse in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. We are not like a government coalition in the last parliamentary term, where any proposal of the opposition would be brought to light without thought. However, the reasons which led Minister Zaorálek to refrain from attending the conference have been communicated. The Minister originally intended to travel to this conference, but it was not possible for health reasons. Based on what I have said, I veto the inclusion of this point on behalf of the Social Democracy and the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u9	Thank you. Minister Mládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose the inclusion of House press 351, second reading, energy law, for tomorrow 14.30 as a solid point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u11	Thank you. Let me see. Tomorrow. Yeah, okay. Mr Kolovratník is now reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u12	Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I come up with a non-conflict proposal, and I will follow up on Mr President's election points. As you received information from the Gremia, it is suggested that points 105, 106 and 107 be firmly included on Friday at 12.45, and I would like to add to them, respectively. include two new points. Firstly, it will be the choice of the Head of the Permanent Delegation in the Central European Initiative and, secondly, the choice of the Head of the Permanent Delegation in the Interinstitutional Union. I would remind you that these are two delegations whose leaders have not been occupied since the fall of last year. Please add two new, Central European initiative and Inter-European Union to the three electoral points already in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u13	Yes, I do. And Mr Blažek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u14	Hello, thank you for your word. Of course, in the situation in which I have been in the last days and hours, I cannot but propose a point that would be called Information of the Government on so-called. an agreement with justice and a situation in the Justice Department. However, I would like to begin by saying that the situation seems terribly comfortable now for opposition policy to criticise both the outgoing minister and the coalition, and I do not know who else, but that is exactly what I do not want to do right now. On the one hand, there is no secretary, and on the other hand, it is announced that there will be a certain exchange, so I would take it from me in a way that is unfair or rather talkative to the past. The most interesting thing about what's happened in the last few weeks is to some extent something other than some sort of personnel exchange. Let me reiterate that our constitutional system is based on the fact that there are three so-called. power, and it's very powerful, legislative and judicial. Unfortunately, this has happened in recent weeks, and this is a paradox of today's time, that while some court officials have been extremely picky about the so-called politicians meddling with them in the judiciary, today we are witnessing a phenomenon where some justice officials very actively want to participate in the exercise of executive power and even intervene in the power of the legislature. Our task is, and now I would say to all of us, no matter what side we are, to insist that the laws of this country are done by Parliament and that since the exercise of executive power, the government and some other administrative authorities are no one else. Let me say a few words about the agreement, and why I say that the agreement was concluded prematurely and under duress, that there is really no agreement in the true sense of the word and cannot act. I think that those ministers who did not vote in favour of the agreement yesterday voted well, while the ministers who voted in favour of the agreement, I think that they cannot be judged well in the future. First, it is not true that this agreement saved the state some 4.5 billion. It's the other way around. Premature state releases 1 billion. 200 miles. CZK for the salaries of the judges on the basis of the agreement - and I will always tell you that and I know that I am right - on the basis of an agreement prepared by the justice authorities themselves. The reason really was the panic of the Minister changing, and I don't really know why, but really the panic of the Minister being Mr. Pelikán, which I don't want to judge right now. That's why we've been watching in the last few days, and that's the intervention of the power of the court where it's really not supposed to go, and that's the touching attempt to save the minister who suits some judicial circles. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, this is exactly what the courts really shouldn't interfere with. It is a matter of voting who is elected by a Member. On the basis of the elections, a government coalition is determined, and then it is this government coalition that sets up ministers. Not a judge. From this point of view, I have to say systemicly - I repeat, systemicly - that the position that has not given way to these judicial circles is considered systemically correct. And basically, it doesn't hurt if I say an indirectly nice sentence here about Andrej Babiš that it has been systemically resolved correctly - but by commending him, I'm actually hurting him, so I'm doing quite well my opposition work. [[14.20 hours]] About the deal. We must, please, all of us, realize that this time the justice system has really clenched itself in the pliers and forced what was voted by the government. Clamped how? Well, I'll just repeat some facts that are good to recall. Firstly, I beg you, it is the decision of the 29 December decision of the Supreme Court on the miscalculation of salaries, in principle since 2002, with the possibility of enforcing claims that have been suspended back for three years. I cannot help but suspect that this decision awaited the outcome of the political agreement in this House on the salaries of judges and other constitutional officials, and subsequently - and I consider this unfair - was given this decision, which was first issued after the House was found, which approved the so-called House. Three times the coefficient, so she approved it, and then it was this decision that I think is unfair, just as unfair are the lawsuits of the judges. I'm begging you, court officials are here to ethically appeal to judges not to press charges. It's not like they're gonna let the lawsuits go first, they're gonna put the state under pressure, and then they're gonna put out what wasn't supposed to happen. There's one more thing that's really important about the deal. That agreement was concluded by the government and the agreement was initiated, and I claim that they invented, gentlemen, the President of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. But in a position of executive power. The magistrates of the courts have the status of executive, so de facto, and this is really crazy, the agreement has been concluded by executive power inside. There was no deal with the judge. But the judicial authority has absolutely no responsibility for carrying out the agreement, and all the responsibility is to the government that has taken over, and I think it is absolutely - I repeat again - an early decision. I'm not saying that in time such a decision would not be right. Far from being exhausted, all the means that executive power could defend itself. It is the constitutional complaint where I agree that the constitutional complaint does not have to be filed only by the President of the District Court of Brno - the countryside. He himself is in conflict of interest because, of course, his salary is also being decided. I think the Ministry of Justice has an active identity card, too, because the damage is the state. But for that state it does not have to act only and only the President of the District Court of Brno - the countryside. I think that's the first thing I'm gonna say to the administration that it didn't come up with that option at all. Two. The situation is that there is actually one single Senate in the Supreme Court, i.e. three judges who decide so-called employment matters, that is to say, this decision. The Minister or the Ministry, or the Government, should have asked President Šámal to set up another Senate for these matters, because all judges and prosecutors who will be sued today are certain that he will prevail in those disputes that one single Senate of the Supreme Court will decide. I think the government, I don't know why, either she didn't think of it, or they just didn't want to use it, so she didn't do it. If the new Senate has taken a different legal view on the same matter, the so-called Grand Chamber must meet, which is 15 Supreme Court judges, and must take a stand on this. I am optimistic that - and now I am not criticizing anyone - the state in those first proceedings did not give this such importance, because it did not really occur to anyone that such a decision was to pay backwards and that the calculation was wrong ever since 2002. It simply couldn't have occurred to anyone that such a decision would be made. We know that now, and I believe that if the State were to defend itself with other Chambers in the proceedings and also with the Constitutional Court, it could simply be more successful. So much for the deal I'm saying was premature, coerced, so there was no deal. And there's a lot of nonsense I don't want to talk about right now. But I think we should talk about it tonight. [[There's a very noisy atmosphere in the room.]] And now the other one. This is the ratio of individual powers as it is set by us. You know, I was probably the only one who pointed out back then that it wasn't right how - I repeat - the nomination of the new Supreme Court President was made. The reason is very simple. Courts are forcing the whole company, and it's the Supreme Administrative Court, so everything can be transparent, everything can be seen, but it's basically just like Remarqua's novelRemarque Three friends arranged for the President of the Supreme Court in absolute secrecy, in agreement with the President of the Republic, who has the authority to do so. But they acted completely differently than they were preaching to us - the whole society, every craftsman, every mayor, and I can continue - and they behaved completely differently. They left out, and that's awfully important, completely missing the Minister of Justice in that decision. There is already such a first omission of executive power. Although there is no constitutional obligation to do so, and there is no legal obligation to do so, it was logical that this would be discussed with the Minister of Justice. And I could refer again to Pavel Rychetský's once-spoken words that only in absolute monarchies can the Minister of Justice be left out when he appoints the President of the Supreme Court. This quote exists and could be found. Well, with food, the taste grows. This means that we were again witnessing last week when Mr. Faltýnek's statement in the newspaper flashed that this week should decide to change the management of the resort, so it began in certain circles of the judiciary of the movement for how to prevent this agreement from happening. And here I condemn it, because it doesn't belong in the sphere of judges, so that they publicly - I repeat - choose who to be minister and who not to be. If it's like this, it'll soon be in every other resort that a new group will choose a minister. And that's just not possible. I repeat, this is meant to be created only on the basis of elections. Finally, I'll say one thing. For us, it is not true that even a godly goal can be achieved by any means. This company lives on the fact that any target has to be achieved -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u15	I'm sorry, colleague, but the noise level is reaching unbearable heights again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u16	- that any target has to be achieved by the rules. And it's a good thing that a good Supreme Court president was chosen, let's say. Maybe it's a good thing the judges are wrong about where they shouldn't be. But it's against the rules. If the ground rules don't apply, we'll be in chaos. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, that our task now will be to clearly stress that the laws are created in this House, the government is to rule, and the judges are to judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u17	The chairman of the ODS Club has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. I have two things. At today's meeting of the Grémia of the Chamber of Deputies, we agreed that the opposition parties will propose tomorrow after the firmly placed points of the opposition window, the individual proposals of their Members or groups of Members. So let me load a total of six points tomorrow after the fixed points. These are points - item 35, House press 146, Mr Petr Fiala's proposal, simply FAO. As second item number 47, the House press 235, the proposal of Members Jiří Dolejš, Miloslava Vostrý and others on - simplified - property confessions. As the third item in point 38, Parliament's press 167, the proposal by Members Miroslav Kalousek and František Laudát and others on the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. As the fourth item, I propose to include item 53, House press 319, proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, David Kádner and others for the constitutional law amending the Constitutional Act of the Czech Republic, a simple direct election of mayors. As the fifth item in item 33, Parliamentary press 126, the proposal of Members Soňa Marková and Stanislav Mackovík to issue a law amending the Act on Public Health Insurance. And as number six, number 59, I apologize to my colleague. Tejc in the opposition window - House press 372, the proposal of jeroný Tejc, Radek Vondráček and Jiří Junek, Marek Černoch and others, simplifiedly executors, execution order. That's the first suggestion I have. Then allow me to comment on the proposal by the Minister of Trade and Industry on the Energy Act. I'm sure we can agree that the law is important, and at the same time it's complicated. For my incomprehensible reasons, the government coalition has ordered six committees to do so. In my opinion, there has been an incredible confusion. Hundreds of amendments were discussed in each of the committees, and different ones. Yesterday, the Economic Committee, if I have good information, adopted 187 amendments. And you want us to do a second reading tomorrow so that we can read the hundreds of amendments and possibly add some more or give some alternative. [[14.30 hours]] Don't make fools of us. If you want us to vote blindly, it can be. I ask the government Members, those who do not sit on the Economic Committee, how do you read the hundreds of amendments by tomorrow, how do you find out if there is anything missing, if there is anything staying? That's not normal at all. Don't think of it as some evil will of the opposition. I admit the law is complicated. I think that if some agreed amendments go through, there is a great chance that even a piece of opposition will support this, that it will not be the coalition's vote versus the opposition. Energy as an industry doesn't even deserve to make such significant changes that every new government is threatened with changing rules. So let me veto the inclusion of a new second reading point on behalf of a total of three MPs, ODS, TOP 09 and Dawn. It really isn't opposition approval. I suggested to the Minister that the next March meeting be the first item on Tuesday. In the meantime, we are able to prepare ourselves and either load further amendments or not and let the second reading take place and then vote on the final text in the third reading at the earliest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u19	Yes, thank you. So far, the last one is President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, allow me, in the spirit and within the framework of the constructive negotiations of the House today, to withdraw our veto in the spirit of this constructive negotiation on the proposal of my colleague Kalousek. I recommend voting on his proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u21	Yes, therefore the proposal becomes re-voted. I'll ask if anyone else is applying to the agenda. If you don't, I'll call my colleagues and we'll vote. I propose that, first of all, if there are no objections, we vote on the proposal from the Gremium. I will ask whether it is possible to vote at once or whether there are individual votes. I propose to vote at once if there is no objection. It's not like that. We will vote on a comprehensive proposal on which the leadership of the House and the MPs agreed. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has order number 77, registered 182, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on Mr Kalousek's proposal. This is a new point that would be called the International Conference on Security in Munich, and it would be the first point on Wednesday afternoon. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 78, registered 182, for 76, against 79. This proposal has not been adopted. Minister Mládek's proposal is unvoting. Now, then, Mr Kolovratník's proposal. We've already established, on the basis of the Grémia agreement, that the election will be Friday at 12.45 p.m. Now it's just a matter of putting two new points in the House meeting. It would be the choice of the Head of the Permanent Delegation to the Central European Initiative and the choice of the Head of the Permanent Delegation to the MPU. We would have put these two points straight into that electoral block on Friday at 12.45 p.m. Is there no objection to the joint vote? It's not like that. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has order number 79, registered 182, for 157, versus 5. This proposal was adopted. Mr Blažek - a new item Information of the Government on the so-called agreement with justice and the situation in the Justice Department. The Member requested that this item be included as the first item in today's House meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has order number 80, registered 182, for 82, against 77. This proposal has not been adopted. The last vote is the so-called opposition window, which means firmly including points 35, 47, 38, 53, 33 and 59 as the first points of the House's afternoon meeting tomorrow. Isn't that right, Chairman Stanjur? In that order? I'm sorry, so after the fixed points tomorrow afternoon in this order - 35, 47, 38, 53, 33 and 59. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 81, registered is 182, for 179, versus 1. We've dealt with all the proposals that have fallen. I see President Kalousek's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a quick remark. Firstly, thank you for the possibility that my proposal has been voted on. It was far more fair than the veto. Secondly, unfortunately, this vote has confirmed us in what we really believe is the zero interest of the government coalition parties in this matter. After the government's failure to attend the Munich Conference showed zero interest in Europe's security and the most up-to-date topics, the government's coalition also showed zero interest. I think that most of us know that we are not the belly of the world and that nothing will happen to us except that for our disinterest, alibism and ostrich politics, the world will reward us for its own lack of interest in us and our interests. It will be fair, but thanks to you it will be to the detriment of the citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-000-000.u23	I will also apologize to Mr Gabal, who apologizes today from 14.30 to Friday until the end of the day because of the long-term planned foreign trip. Before we proceed to discuss the bills passed by the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow these senators to speak: Senator Eybert, Malý, Martínek, Šilar and Veleb. I want to tell you that information on the Senate's amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. We must vote on this approval. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees with the speech of the appointed senators to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 82, logged in 182, for 170, versus 3. This proposal was therefore adopted. Without further action, we can proceed to the first point
