ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u1	38. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Grospič, Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová and Zdeněk Ondráček on the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended /house print 188/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered as House press 188/1. I ask that the proposal put forward by the representatives of the appellants - Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u2	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, yesterday, across the political spectrum, we remembered the impact on the political and personal lives of our current and past colleagues who were prosecuted without being subsequently brought to justice and their final conviction. I think that we have agreed across the political spectrum that such negotiations represent a very significant intervention in the life of the politicians concerned and regardless of which party they represent here, whether they are Mr Svoboda or from the last parliamentary term of Mr Tluchora, Mr Fuchs, Mr Šnajdr and others. However, we should also think about how it will affect the policies of the parties and clubs of the situation where the final conviction of one of the Members will take place. You know that's what happened in the past. I can remember names like Pekárek, Wolf, so that I don't just move on one side of the political spectrum, but it involves others. Today, public opinion research has been published on the popularity of politicians in terms of how citizens assess their political culture. It may not surprise you that the best hit was by representatives at the municipal level, where more than 60 percent of the citizens are positively rated, about 20 percent less have regional representatives, and it will not surprise you that we, when our evaluation is mostly negative, are the worst rated. Only a little more than 20 percent of citizens are positive about us. I believe that this also contributes to the fact that we are not capable of doing so alone, and we do not have the tools to deal with the situation that I have mentioned. In the Act on elections to municipal councils and elections to the regions, there is a provision that implies the termination of the mandate of a Member who has been convicted of intentional crime. Although our club has been pursuing something similar for several years, and I recall that during the last parliamentary term, Mrs Němcová also submitted a similar proposal, there has not yet been an amendment to the law, in our case it would have to be an amendment to the Constitution, which makes the end of the mandate in these cases possible. This topic is also a proposal that I present to you under number 188. [[16.10 hours]] Second, and I note that a very easily detachable proposal, because I assume that a much more controversial proposal, is the question of the possibility of losing the mandate of a Member who leaves the political party, the MP's club and the programme for which he ran and goes to another club, another political party, and you know that similar cases have happened in the past. I would very much like to see this subject under discussion, even if I have already mentioned it, being somewhat more controversial. The proposal we are submitting to you has a serial number 188, as Mrs Marková recalled at the last meeting on one proposal, and he could celebrate his annual birthday at this time because it was submitted in April last year. If we are to achieve that at least our successors can be evaluated in the eyes of citizens better than we are, this bill of ours assumes potential effectiveness with the coming of the next parliamentary term, I will welcome it if we submit it to a discussion in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u3	Thank you. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Marek Benda. [[Not present.]] I wonder if Marek Benda will be present anytime soon so that we can continue the negotiations? [[He was just here. Member Marek Benda is coming to the O.R. after a while.]] Excellent, we've been there. I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u4	I am so sorry to the appellant, the Vice-President and the entire House of Honor that I forgot that I was the rapporteur of this bill, so I left to smoke in peace. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And only on the basis of Mr President's call have I returned. So my intelligence report will be very brief. The petition was presented to you by the plaintiff. The government took a positive attitude towards him - negative, sorry, negative attitude. [[Laughter.]] So we can go through the first reading and decide, on the basis of that, whether we continue with the proposal or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u5	I thank you and open a general debate in which I record one application - Mr Chvojka, but before that, Mr Karamazov. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the KSČM are proposing to supplement the text of the Constitution on the termination of the mandate of a Member or a Senator for another reason. Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of 2 July 2012 supplementing (g) is the following: the mandate of a Member or of a Senator shall cease to be lost of office. No further explanation. I do not know how a Member could lose his mandate. Is he gonna lose him on the street somewhere? Or does he fall out of his pocket? I don't think so. It is only from the explanatory memorandum that we can see that the appellants wanted to affect cases where a Member or a Senator changes a club or a political party. But they kind of forgot to write that in the draft constitutional law. As the proposal seems pointless, I would like to propose that it be rejected at first reading. In addition, even if the proposal were duly legislative, it would clearly be unconstitutional, as in Art. 26 Members and senators shall carry out their mandate in person, only in accordance with their promise, and shall not be bound by any orders or orders from a political party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u7	I thank you for keeping time. Mr Chvojka has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think the proposal was sufficiently justified by the co-president. Then the rapporteur briefly said something to him, and it is true that his news report was a lot shorter than smoking one cigarette. Anyway, I have a few points to make. Certainly, and it is always monitored in media terms, it is not good for a Member who has been elected as a political party or as a candidate of a political party to change the jersey in the middle of the term of office. Those are things that shouldn't happen. Social democracy, of course, has a bitter experience in these matters. I remember 2006, when Mr. Melčák and Mr. Pohanka defected from the left-wing spectrum to support the right-wing spectrum. It's something that certainly didn't contribute to their good name and that shouldn't happen. And I understand why the petitioners are proposing what they're proposing. However, there is a certain greater value to me than the Member's mandate, in that it should be bound in this case, as it was in the first Republic, when those Members of the time had already filled out before they came to the House when they were elected, a certain bianco check, signed on the resignation document, and the party for which they were running could have called them off if they had not been obedient. [[unintelligible]] I don't think that's right either. I think, and it has already been said by the previous speaker, that the proposal for a Member to lose his mandate in that case, if he changes the jersey or becomes relaxed, is contrary to several articles of the Constitution. I'm quoting an article here. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 23a to supplement this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with Article 23a of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 3 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, which states that the mandate is exercised in the interests of all the people and according to the best knowledge and conscience of the Member or Senator. I think that the proposed legislation would seriously undermine this principle in its consequences. Therefore, the amendment to the Constitution is not even formally correct. Because if we want to deal with this, we have to change this article in some way. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 23a to supplement this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with Article 23a of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 3 of the At the same time, we have an article. 26 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, where it is written that Members and Senators carry out their mandate in accordance with their promise and are not bound by any orders. It is clear from the wording of this provision that a Member or a Senator is primarily bound by his promise and not by his political affiliation. I think that if we even considered that a Member should lose his mandate for changing the jersey - and I say that it is not right and that it is something that has damaged social democracy in the past - so that they have to change in some way the fundamental and fundamental points that govern the Member's mandate. That's the first thing. Second thing. This concerns the second proposal, i.e. the loss of a mandate in the event that there would be an unconditional conviction of the Member for a deliberate offence. I think that's something that we've been discussing for a long time and that we should still be discussing. Of course, this also has a lot of risks, such as the abuse of a political ruling party if it controls the police in some way, and this would be easy to get rid of the opposition MP. I am of the opinion that the Constitution is not a tearing calendar. For six months now, we have a subcommittee on the amendment of the Constitution and on parliamentary procedures. At the meeting of this subcommittee, these matters and changes are discussed very closely, very comprehensively. I confess that there is not one of these two that we are discussing here in the many inspirational proposals on the subcommittee. So I'm against approving the Constitution's amendment just as a matter of concern to one or two points. The amendment to the Constitution should be comprehensive, it should, of course, be devoted to more things, it should be approved after a very detailed, thorough analysis, not only after a discussion here on parliamentary grounds, but above all on academic and professional grounds. I am basically following up on my previous speaker, Mr Karamazov, by what I have to say. For the reasons I have expressed here, I also propose that this proposal be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now registering one factual remark and two priority rights. First, with a factual remark, President Kalousek and then President Kováčik and rapporteur Benda. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u10	Thank you for the floor. When, Mr Chvojka, through Mr President, you mentioned former colleagues Melčák and Pohanka as a bitter experience of social democracy, it would be fair if you added the information to Mr Huml's experience and supplemented us with information on whether it was a sweet or bitter experience in this case. I think Mr Huml deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u11	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few points. I am not a lawyer, the less constitutional, but we are here in the Chamber of Deputies of all kinds of professions and social groups or professional groups precisely to look at things not only from a narrow legal perspective, but also with some common common sense. I will only now poke a little bit into those who refused when this House's term of office was set up, our request for a permanent commission to be set up - not just a subcommittee - as it was before, the Chamber of Deputies for Amendments to the Constitution, the Constitutional Commission, and so on, which would be the level where all proposals for amendments could be effectively - I am also opposed to the salami method of amending the Constitution - to communicate clearly, clearly and sufficiently effectively. A mere subcommittee shall be an auxiliary body, an auxiliary institute, an auxiliary instrument of the Committee. The subcommittee shall have no strong decision-making power in this regard. He can only recommend. The deliberations of the subcommittee shall, as a general rule, be non-public, unless otherwise decided, and the like. It's just a weaker level than what we suggested. Recently, there was another amendment to the Constitution in relation to the powers of the President, and there was no problem that the Constitution was being made a tearing calendar, so I kind of see the view as purposeful. As far as our motivation is concerned, why we have put forward this proposal repeatedly, a similar proposal, the point is that we consider that defection as such is very harmful, because it regulates the results of the elections, i.e. it is against the will of the voters. Moreover, we consider that the will of the electorate should be respected, and unlike some others, we do not see that it would be in some conflict with the Constitution, with some articles of the Constitution, and so on, but we see the need to deal with this negative phenomenon, as they say, once and for all, so that, in the context of the discussion of this bill, or in the context of the broader debate on the adaptation of the Constitution or possible amendments to the Constitution as a whole, we can deal with it once and for all, because it is a matter which is in sharp conflict with the decision of the electorate, but also with the decision of all the people whose part they are voters, and therefore I do not see the contradiction with the Constitution. So let us agree that either we will continue to send this proposal and, at some stage of the discussion, we will order it to be discussed in the committee of which the subcommittee for amendments to the Constitution is also at the academic level, or let us talk about how we will deal with this phenomenon. I know I can be perceived by some as the voice of a caller in the desert, because that side was handy by defectors, and that side was handy by defectors. Interestingly, when it was a hundred-hundred, defectors usually made very fundamental and serious decisions, by distorting the election results by defecting, it was simply fatal or fatal. I would like, in this unfortunate practice, not to be continued, nor to be able to continue, because it is simply something that is very difficult to reconcile with parliamentary democracy. I would ask you not only to consider the narrow legal language and narrow legal thinking this time, but also to consider the sound common sense and to take the will of the voters who have expressed themselves in the elections and which should be observed for four years for a really serious matter. So let us continue to deal with this law. Please do not refuse, do not return, continue and, at some stage, on the basis of an agreement on how we will continue to deal with this problem, we can, after certain adjustments - because what I hear is adjustable - then we can figure out the academic and the subcommittee land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u13	Thank you. Before we go on and give the floor, I'll read one apology. From 16.15 p.m. for working reasons, the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka apologizes. The rapporteur, Mr Benda, shall also speak with priority. Mr Blažek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am once again apologizing for the tiny sales of the news report, or at this point I would like to comment on the draft constitutional law as Marek Benda rather than as rapporteur. I think it contains two parts that are structurally completely different. The first is the loss of the mandate, where - as Mr Karamazov has rightly pointed out - it is in fact formulated in this constitutional change in such an incredibly vague way that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u15	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I hate to bring you into this, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues that, in the event that you have something to deal with, you go into the foyer and do not disturb the course of the negotiations with your call. I thank you for respecting that. Please continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u16	I'm going back. This is the provision of a loss of mandate, which subsequently provided for interpretation in the Rules of Procedure, that, in the form in which it is formulated in the proposal, it means, in fact, that the decision on the circumstances under which a Member may or cannot lose a mandate is moved from constitutional level to the level of the Rules of Procedure. This is the first great danger where I suddenly change the quorum, on the basis of which I approve the situation and the moments of the demise of the mandate. The second thing - and that's a substantive objection. I know defectors always upset everyone. But not to quote this term, so when you remember the last term, a strange group warring against dinosaurs Public Things, there to know who was a defector and who wasn't, who remembers it, when they left the over-half majority of the clubs and other things, it was really extremely difficult. And I think that these are exactly the questions - and as I say, I do not want to interfere with this parliamentary term now because we would also get into almost unsolvable situations, but that these are the exact questions that either we are based on the fact that voters are giving us our mandates directly, they are voting sides, but they elect each of us, each of us on this candidate, for example, we can be elected by the number of preferential votes that are not high, and you know well that in many cases people jump from unchosen places, I have quite good experience with that. So, from this point of view, I warn and warn against going down this too strict path - the voter only voted for the party, not just one leader of the party, and he is the one who decides whether the mandate will expire or not. That's why I find this part unrealistic. [[16.30 hours]] The second problem I draw the petitioner's attention to is the question of losing his mandate in the event of a conviction for a deliberate crime. There I would very much like the Constitution to resolve the problem in some way. Once again, you know our story of a Member from the last term, who even became a Member after two years on the basis of someone's resignation. He ran for the election without any problems, any charges. Then he came here and said: and I will not give up the mandate. There was nothing we could do about it, neither his political party nor the House as a whole. And then he ended up in prison. The only solution that could be adopted was a solution that said: his salary is not paid. But I think it was deeply on the edge of embarrassment for both the entire House and for the political party he represented and in complete incomprehensibleness for citizens. I think there's a solution here. Even after discussing this in the last parliamentary term, I have been leaning towards a qualified majority in such a case to say that the Chamber of Deputies lost their mandate in the event of a conviction for a deliberate crime so that we do not get into situations where someone gets a month in prison or even gets a higher prison, but for a political offense, let's say, for some kind of speech or for some kind of disclosure of secrets that the State ultimately considers should not have been revealed, that the supervision of the Chamber of Deputies should have been there. But other than that, I lean very hard to solve this problem. From this point of view, I have admitted that we are going to release the proposal and that we are going to try to adapt it, if necessary, on the constitutional law committee, because, as I have repeatedly said here in this House, I do not believe in any complex amendment to the Constitution. This is simply not possible in the composition of the House and the Senate and the prestigious struggles between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, which last for a long time, and we must solve individual problems. So if the petitioners are prepared to see a very small piece of the committee come out, I imagine it will pass on to the committee. I can also imagine that someone will propose a return to the recast and we will tell the petitioners: we are ready to deal with the second part. A reduction in the loss of a mandate from constitutional level to the level of the Rules of Procedure is unacceptable for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u17	Thank you. I have here one factual comment by Mr Stupčuk and then two proper applications - Mr Blažek and Mr Chvojka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I merely wanted to point out briefly in the light of the factual remark that the draft constitutional law, which refers to the so-called. intentional crimes are not at all in line with the new definition contained by the criminal code, which distinguishes crimes against those offences and those crimes. This means, in this sense, that if we were to release the bill to further reading, we would undoubtedly have to have a very structured and complex discussion on a topic which should be defined by the scope of the exact criminal offences and should therefore, if necessary, be prosecuted as a result of a loss of mandate. I don't know if we're ready for this, but I would expect that this should already be included in the original proposal so that the draft amendment to the Constitution is completely compatible with the new layout and division, with the distinction of the individual offences that the new criminal code has defined with effect since 2010. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u19	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. In response to Mr Kováčik, I would say - and perhaps even a little bit against myself. I also believe that it is better to use common sense in the Constitution than just legalism. After all, there is simple evidence. English and American history are full of rules that, fortunately, arose without lawyers and paid for hundreds of years, while in the French Revolution, it was, unfortunately, a lawyer and a lawyer and it was just a bunch of corpses, which is just true. So I agree with that attitude. And in this spirit, I would like to say so much about the proposed law that I think it is not entirely thought out, except that it is not entirely systemic, also the question that life can bring, and that is, for example, when the Member does not transfer to another party. And maybe that side will die, that could happen. Or they split into five entities, for example, to overdo it, and those entities judge each other who is the successor of the original entity. This is simply an almost unsolvable matter in this proposed amendment to the Constitution, where everyone here would judge who is to lose the chair and who is not. So I think the proposal needs to be premeditated. I don't think there's gonna be a lot of thought committees that want to take the common sense out of the country again. And that's probably all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u21	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I was just thinking, when my colleague Blažek spoke, they say someone used a legal loophole. Why legal loopholes? Because even in a democracy, in my opinion, lawyers never see the straight way, and they're lucky somehow, even if it's for a good cause. But I think politics is supposed to be more straightforward. I've had a lot of moments in my political party, too, where I felt that maybe she liked me less than I thought. Maybe I felt reversed, but I stayed on that political side and I'll stay on it as long as I want to do politics and as long as I'm alive. I think that it is simply not possible to be elected as a political party and move somewhere else during the political mandate. If this proposal is legally difficult at this point, that lawyers are fighting, I understand. But I think the principle is clear. And that principle must be straightforward. Whoever was elected a political party can't jump from club to club here. This, in my opinion, is completely unacceptable, and I cannot therefore support a proposal that would reject efforts to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u23	Thank you. And now a duly registered Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u24	Thank you again for the floor. Firstly, through you, Mr President, I would respond to my colleague Milan Urban. Unfortunately, we just have to deal with these legal aspects when we're here in the House and we approve the laws. That's the law, the law. Then I would like to answer through the President, Mr Kalousek, who asked me about my experience with my colleague Huml. I will honestly say that the experience is neutral, that's all I'm gonna say. [[with a smile]] However, one thing must be recalled. My colleague Huml didn't defect during his last term of office. He was expelled from his club, he was expelled from the coalition club where you were with him in the coalition. And I don't think he went all the way to a better place back then, because we were the opposition party, which unfortunately didn't do much here - she couldn't bring it up, of course. Third thing. I was thinking about the proposal we have here. If I take this as an example of a very topical subject, and that's what's going on in Mr. Tomio's movement, I don't think, in principle, the gentlemen and the ladies who ran for him were waiting, they couldn't wait, they didn't know what was going to happen in that movement. And I think it would be perfectly legitimate if they were from that club that, I don't know, it's Dawn, Dawn Dawn - just from that club where they're at if they get out. And it would be some kind of sign that they just don't agree with what's going on in that club or that party, they'd get off, they'd be non-inclusion. I don't think it would be quite right for them to lose their mandate because they may want to pursue the program they were elected to continue, but not in the group and behind the formation they were elected to. I might take away their mandate for the stupidity of running for someone like Tomio Okamura at all, but certainly not for leaving because they don't like the way things are going down there, the way things are going down there. I don't think this is a very good example of what my previous speakers said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u25	Thank you. I have here one factual comment by Mr Svoboda. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to address a colleague of Urban through you. There's one big catch. We are elected and have full personal responsibility for what we do and act according to our best knowledge and conscience. What if the party I was elected to move somewhere else? That's what my father said when he spoke of a Communist party that he was never in, but he told me this as an example, why shouldn't I go into politics: See where the party will go, and then what will you do?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u27	Thank you. At this point, I'm not seeing anyone logged in. Is this a proper application for a debate? A real note? Come on, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd just stop by the mention. I think it's useless, Mr. Colleague, twilight - dawn, dawn - twilight. We keep working. We honor our electoral agenda for which we have been elected, our topics for which we have been elected. I think we're proving this every day. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u29	Thank you. I don't register anyone with an application for a debate. That is the case, in which case I am ending the general debate. During the general debate, I recorded twice the motion for rejection, both from Mr Karamazov and Mr Chvojka. First, I'm going to vote... But before that, the final words. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to thank you, colleagues, for the debate, because the aim of the proposal, particularly in the controversial part concerning the loss of the mandate for defection, was indeed to call for a debate on this subject. I would not like this discussion to be closed, even if it is not reflected in the Constitution or other laws. But when it comes to the second issue, let us realize that we are not better, we are no more beautiful and smarter than the representatives at the level of the municipalities and regions or the citizens who sent us here. Why should we have the advantage of implementing our mandate from, for example, Pankrác prison? I'd like to give it up voluntarily, I believe most of you do, too. I appeal to you at least to discuss this half of the proposed topic, to release the proposal to the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u31	Thank you, Counselor. I ask the rapporteur if he wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. Okay. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. As I said before, a motion to dismiss has fallen. I have one more request, and that's to unsubscribe you, I do. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your electronic cards. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby so they can come to the vote. I shall be the first to vote in favour of rejecting the proposal. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of the motion to dismiss, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 80. Members present are 152, in favour of proposal 67, against 38. This proposal was rejected. In that case, we will continue to deal with the motion on the commandment of the committees for discussion... [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Whoever agrees to the motion to reject - that is, we had to agree to the motion to reject. He didn't pass, so we're moving on. Now, as I said, we will deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for consideration to the Constitutional Legal Committee. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I propose that we order the bill to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I will read that we are voting on this to order the proposal submitted to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 81. Members present are 155, for the proposal was 149, against 2. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, so I ask if anyone else has a proposal for the commandment to the next committee. It's not like that. In that case, I note that this proposal has been directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee and also as a single committee. I'm done discussing this point. Before we proceed to the next point, Prime Minister Kalousek is applying with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are eight key points on the agenda of this meeting which require the presence of the Minister of Finance, whether it be the Act on budgetary responsibility, several amendments to excise duties, the Act on Insurance. All these points have been translated at the request of the President of the club YES until next week, although we do not know why it had to be so whipped up with the justification that the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the club YES are busy. I was in vain looking for the reason why the First Deputy Prime Minister could be busy when the Chamber of Deputies is sitting. I was thinking about some serious international political negotiations, such as carousels. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] No! He went skiing! It's a shock to us, of course, given that he and his entire movement said he was going to the House to work and not ski. So if the Deputy Prime Minister skis while we're supposed to be working here, it's shocking information for us that we need to consult. [[Glee in the hall.]] For example, if we don't go skating next week. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] So I'd like an hour and a half for a meeting of the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u33	Thank you. Before I call for a break, Prime Minister Stanjura reports with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u34	Unlike my fellow President Kalousek, I am not so surprised. I remember when there were interpelations and, at the same time, in Vienna, a ball at the opera, which was chosen, where he was. After the pause requested by President Kalousek for the TOP 09 Club, I request a break at the ODS Club meeting for one hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u35	Okay, thank you. I am still not declaring a break because Vice-President Filip is reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I understand that the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club is experiencing a huge shock, but I do understand that he needs advice. I'd like to ask him if he could postpone the recess after the execution order, because that's still a point concerning the opposition window, and if he couldn't consult later after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-019-038.u37	So since I don't see any response to any of your questions, I have two requests for club meetings: TOP 09 is asking for one and a half hours, and the ODS is asking for one hour, which is a total of two and a half hours. Since it's 16.50, we're not getting out of time until after 7:00. We did not vote to act today after 7:00 p.m., which is why I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you the rest of the day.
