ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-014-087.u1	87. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area (the Parliamentary Press 466/ - first reading) Please let Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek speak the opening words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-014-087.u2	Thank you. So we are only in the first reading of this government proposal, the name of which is now presented by the President of the House. I would like to present you with an agreement which is more of a formal fulfilment of one of the conditions which are linked to membership of the European Union. This is the membership of the Republic of Croatia, which has become a member of the European Union on 1 July 2013, and has an obligation to be a member of the European Economic Area as well. For this purpose, an Agreement on Croatia's participation in the European Economic Area, which now needs to be ratified or approved, has been negotiated by all the Contracting Parties. So that's why I'm presenting the contract here. I believe it should also pass fairly smoothly through this House. She should also have no direct impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-014-087.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, which is Mr Pavel Plzák, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-014-087.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, the Minister has therefore been very brief, I may be a little more detailed, but I will not delay. The European Economic Area has been created for the purpose - this is for me and for the novelty that I have learned this - of extending the internal European market and for cooperation in some other areas, namely on 1 January 1994. Its contracting parties were the countries of the then European Community and some of the countries of the European Free Trade Association. Meanwhile, the European Community has been transformed into the European Union, so to date all States in the European Union are actually parties to this Agreement and three countries from the countries of the European Free Trade Association, Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway and the Principality of Liechtenstein. Here, just for the sake of interest, what I have learned is that, as the European Union is setting up funds for various purposes, these three countries, in order to reduce social and economic inequalities in the European Economic Area, are setting up their own fund, namely the European Economic Area Fund, and the Kingdom of Norway has its own well-known Norway Fund. As the Minister said, by joining the European Union on 1 July 2013, Croatia had to fulfil its obligations and ask it to become a Contracting Party to this Agreement, which the Republic of Croatia fulfilled. The negotiations between the European Union, Croatia and the three States of the European Free Trade Association have been opened, resulting in this agreement on which we are to vote. The negotiations with Croatia concerned mainly the area of financial mechanisms and fish products, and Croatia received a financial injection, or financial contribution from both the European Union and the European Free Trade Association countries. This agreement is a mixed agreement, i.e. that certain parts of it fall within the competence of the European Union, some fall within the competence of the Member States. In terms of our legal order, this is an economic agreement of the general nature of the presidential category, i.e. that, following the agreement of the two chambers of Parliament, this agreement will be ratified by the President of the Republic and will enter into force. I guess that's it. I will not comment on the details of the contract. It is a treaty that will be negotiated with all the countries of the European Union, so there is nothing to add. And I, in a detailed debate - or if I may now - will propose a commandment to the Foreign Committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-014-087.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that nobody is reporting to, so I am also ending it. There is clearly no interest in the final words after the general debate, so we will have to deal with the proposal for a commandment. The Organizing Committee, as well as the rapporteur, suggested ordering the proposal to be submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'll ask if there's any other proposal. It's not like that. So we will proceed to the vote. I'm just gonna check you out because the number on the board doesn't match the number in the O.R., and I'm gonna ask for a new registration. And once the numbers are settled, we will vote. It is a commandment to the Committee of Foreign Affairs. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees to order this press to the Foreign Committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 63, registered is 149, for 144, against was 1. This proposal was adopted. The press has been ordered to the Foreign Committee, and I'm done discussing paragraph 87. Let's continue with the point.
