ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u1	53. Proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, David Kádner, Petr Adam, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, Martin Lank, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws /House print 319/ - first reading You have received the Government's position as House Press 319/1. I ask that Mr Tomio Okamura present the proposal for the appellants. [[There's still a lot of noise and restlessness in the hall!]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr Volný Member, please make way for Mr Okamur. Thank you, Mr. Volný. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, like many of you, I have the opinion that the constitution should change as little as possible and, if anything, with reason. Of course, yes, if the constitution is really good. However, our constitution is in many respects unclear, inadequate, or even bad from the present point of view. In this context, I would therefore like to introduce to you the draft constitutional law on the direct election of mayors. This is why the Constitution would deserve a big public debate on its comprehensive transformation. In this respect, we have been presenting our proposals for fundamental changes for the year after the Dawn movement. One of them is the change in the electoral system at both national and municipal level. The change in the constitution is, of course, a very long course, and we are already making changes that we consider essential and which should have been adopted a long time ago. One of such fundamental changes is the direct choice and appeal of mayors, mayors, or captains. The bill before you, when it was submitted, I met with a few comments. I would like to start by stressing that our bill is approved by the Parliamentary Institute and we have confirmed in writing that it is therefore technically and legislatively quite okay. I would like to emphasise this in case anyone objects to the professionalism of the processing. The first objection I have encountered is that there are no fundamental arguments for changing the electoral system. But the reality is completely different, even the reality of our surrounding countries. The Czech Republic is even the last - yes, you can hear well - the last Central European country which does not have an established direct choice and rebuttal of mayors or mayors. Germany, Austria, Poland and Slovakia have it. If the entire surrounding civilized world, including the countries of Asia or South America, has direct choice and appeal, not only the mayors, then apparently the nations of these countries know why this is the case. Direct choice of mayors is a perfectly standard way of choosing in many European states. When I name these states at least briefly, the direct choice of mayors is, for example, in Italy, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Macedonia or Albania. For example, a direct choice is applied in the UK, where, therefore, whether direct or indirect is decided by citizens in a referendum. Furthermore, in Germany and Austria, a direct choice is used in a number of Länder. In Norway and Hungary there is a direct choice of mayors in municipalities up to 10 thousand. population. First of all, there is a very clear principle that the voter knows who will rule the town hall and with what program, and thanks to the appeal, he has the opportunity to enforce the promises of his mayors. I understand that direct responsibility can be unpleasant for someone, but citizens will welcome it. Of course, in the Czech Republic, the vast and overwhelming majority of citizens want the direct choice and appeal of mayors and mayors. The last survey on this topic by STEM/MARK dedicated to the direct election of mayors states that even 86.3% wishes a direct choice in the Czech Republic, i.e. an absolutely overwhelming majority. However, it is not just the citizens. The first impulse to promote the direct election of mayors at a time when I was just thinking about joining the Senate was the plights of the mayors themselves. That is, it was the mayors who are representatives of virtually all the parliamentary parties we have today in the House. The mayors have complained and complained about the return position they have on the fact that they can be recalled from one day to the next if they dislike their political partners or fellow party members. In practice, it often meant giving orders to people associated with those who decide on the mayor's election, i.e. to representatives. Thus, a direct choice would enable the mayors to independently implement the electoral program regardless of lobbyist pressures. I think we know many examples from the past of the mayor or mayor being the victim of a coup, whether coalition parties or even parties. No one tells me that backstage coups at city hall benefit municipalities, mayors, or the stability of city hall work. If the mayor is being called off by citizens, then it is only possible through a referendum, I mean, if we adopt this constitutional law, and that is more complicated and there must be more serious reasons than when a bunch of parties, for example, agree with different godfathers. There is also a principle in democracy that citizens should rule. What further emerged from the survey is another argument for direct choice. Direct choice of mayors would increase citizens' interest in municipal elections by about 10 percent. So if I repeat that, 86 percent of the citizens want a direct mayor choice, and even a voter turnout would increase by 10 percent, which means mostly very positive aspects. By the way, according to a survey, almost a third of the respondents did not even know that the mayors were not elected directly by citizens, but by municipal councils. I think that we have found more than enough reasons for the direct choice of mayors, and closing our eyes to them is truly contempt for both citizens and democracy. I think we should take this citizens' interest into account. Again, I stress that we are the last country in Central Europe to have no direct choice of mayors. That means we have a deficit in democracy at least at local level. [[17.20 hours]] For the Czech Republic, knowledge is very important, which was obtained after the introduction of a direct election in Slovakia. In some parameters, in my opinion, the Slovak model could be inspiring for the Czech Republic. It can be described as a clear positive from Slovak experience that the mayor's position is an individual position and is, in this sense, under greater control of citizens who can remove him from office. The practice also results in simpler and more flexible administration of the municipality. If I give a second example, also from a Slavic country that has experience with the introduction of the direct election of the mayors of recent times, and that is Poland, even in Poland, there are indisputable facts. This is, above all, a higher level of involvement of citizens in the administration of the municipality and their greater interest in local matters. Of course, the assumed position of the mayor carries with it the claims of the mayor's personality. Every candidate for mayor is going to the election with his political agenda, which he fulfils after being elected under the control of the citizens of the community. Following the experience gained so far, the introduction of the direct election of the mayor, as well as the mayor, is assessed positively by the Polish Ministry of the Interior, which are their official conclusions that we have looked up. Another objection is that the direct choice cannot be addressed separately from the entire organisation of the municipal administration, inter alia, because it does not find an answer to what powers the mayor's function is to be strengthened by. But here in our proposal, of course, no one is saying, it is precisely the opposite, that by changing the constitutional principle everything ends. On the contrary, all we wanted to do was to allow the direct election of mayors into the constitution, just as all the surrounding countries around the Czech Republic and many countries around the world and in Europe, which I have already named, have the examples, and, on the contrary, we wanted to allow only the direct choice of mayors, mayors, or captains, and it is then up to the government, the House and consensus through the entire political spectrum, to adopt implementing laws, based on a general consensus across the political spectrum. This means, by adopting this constitutional principle, following the model of practically most countries or all the countries around us, basically the direct choice is far from beginning and it is yet to begin at all the space for general political and public debate, how to then adopt implementing laws and how to implement the matter. After all, the same procedure has also been implemented in the service law or in the general referendum law, where the Constitution contains these principles for many years, but the specific content in the laws has been adopted gradually, or, unfortunately, in the case of a national referendum, it is not adopted to this day. In our view, the implementing law for direct elections should then be completely prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, because it is a really important and complex code which, according to our court, belongs to the government and subsequently, of course, to the debate across the entire political spectrum. Of course, it is not a problem to adopt a functional code from Slovakia or other neighbouring democratic countries of the European Union and only to adjust the details to match the Czech conditions. But here we would also welcome, of course, some discussion of the public, mayors, representatives, experts and politicians before we all agree on a particular model. After all, it may also be the decision of a government coalition, although we would welcome a wider consensus. The third and last one of the more pronounced comments I have noted is that the constitution should specify precisely in which municipalities the direct choice is applied. I did not understand this point very much, because it is clear that in all the municipalities and cities of the Czech Republic, for one reason only: the problems caused by behind-the-scenes tugs about the town hall are both small and in the biggest cities. The Prague Magistrate has been a shining example of this in recent years. Thank you for your attention and I beg your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u3	I thank Mr Okamur and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Pavel Blažek. [[Messenger. - Shall I sit down?]] Not only sit down, but a word, Mr. Ambassador! I'm also asking for your kind words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u4	Okay. Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I'm a reporter for the first time, so I didn't know whether to sit down or talk anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u5	There's a first time for everything. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u6	And sometimes for the last time! I'll be very brief. I agree with what the government has said about this proposal, which means I don't want to read it all here, the basic points are there. Perhaps the most important thing is that even after several years of discussions involving municipal authorities, such fundamental arguments could not be found that would make such a significant change in the organisation of the municipality's administration convincingly justified. And another objection, perhaps even more fundamental of the more stated by the government, is that the proposal does not take into account the way in which it will decide in that village, that is, whether it will continue to be in the hands of the collective bodies or, possibly, the directly elected mayor. So basically, I'm taking the liberty of making a motion to re-work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, in which the President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Mr Marek Černoch, joined first. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, the proposal to introduce a direct election of mayors, which is based on a total of three analyses which have been carried out at government level, has been made with the conviction that the subsequent adoption of the implementing law on direct election of mayors will lead to better democracy and governance in the Czech Republic. Thanks to this proposal, there would also be an increase in the participation and engagement of Czech citizens, who could influence the situation in their place of residence even more. At present, only representatives who then elect the mayor can be elected. There's no other way to influence who's running their city for the next four years, and that's not entirely fair. At the same time, the introduction of a direct election of mayors would lead to a reduction in the financial evasion and controversial decisions of the town halls and would lead to a visible political responsibility for the mayor. The current state of affairs, when the mayor is elected by members of the council of the municipality, is inadequate because it promotes collective irresponsibleness. The mayor must exercise his mandate to please the council. Thus, the mayor does not have such a strong mandate for action that the locals would welcome, but the council does not agree with. Moreover, indirect elected mayors may not always have public support in the municipality. It can become someone that the citizens do not want and is placed in the head of the community only for political reasons. There are also cases where the indirectly elected mayor has a very weak mandate and cannot make the necessary changes. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The introduction of a direct election of mayors was dealt with three times by the government of Petr Nečas - without result. At the same time, the direct choice of mayors is a perfectly standard way of choosing many European states. This type of election is known from countries such as Italy, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus, Slovakia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Macedonia or Albania. Our aim is to promote the introduction of a direct election of mayors, which brings a number of positives compared to today's choice, such as greater responsibility for directly elected mayors for managed property in the village. Every such mayor will have direct political responsibility for key issues within the municipal administration. The voter will be better equipped to control the mayor chosen by him, as he will verify the accuracy of his choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u9	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to ask you to continue when the House is quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u10	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Before I give the floor to Mr Chvojka, I will still read the apologies. Mrs Nina Nováková apologizes today from 5:30 pm for work reasons, Mr Josef Hájek apologizes today from 18:00 for work reasons, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová apologises from 5:30 pm to the end of the day for family reasons. And now I will ask Mr. Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I confess that, in my opinion, we sometimes discuss all kinds of nonsense and bad ideas here, and I would almost say that this is one of the biggest bad ideas that is here in the House. I have a few notes to make. First of all, I don't think that's what people want, and yet, of course, we shouldn't be dealing with laws based on what people want. However, I do not think that what President Okamura said, if he is still the President, through Mr President, means that people want it. I think that municipal government and municipal management and mayor's office is something else from institutions in the Czech Republic that works and has relative seriousness among Czech citizens. And it seems to me that if we put in place a direct choice, a so-called direct choice of mayors, we would only contribute to the further collapse of this state. Unfortunately, I don't think that's a mistake. I am a little fascinated by the words of the people of Dawn about that direct democracy, about direct appeal, about direct responsibility, as if politicians were not responsible, as if politicians could steal and the criminal law or the Czech rule of law did not fall upon them. Of course, they're such senseless, populist gestures, populist talk. Of course, that's not true. But other than that, I think that the lesson of direct democracy given by President Okamura sometime on Mondays or Sundays from his members was quite pleasant. When we look at Slovakia, where the direct election of not only mayors, but also their captains, or robes, works, we find that what Mr Okamura said here is not only a colleague of Mr. Okamura, but also an honored colleague of Mr. Černoch, that the mayor has more room for the implementation of his program, that this is nonsense. That's just nonsense. Of course, the mayor is supposed to have a majority in the representative body of the village, and it's about most of the representatives. And if we look at the example, it's not a community, it's a Banskobystrica region where we have a half-fascist Mr. Kotleba, who was the only one who got out of his group, and otherwise there are other democratic parties, so I think he's just a man who's taking up some kind of functional place for that robe, instead of who could perform that function with some kind of support in the county council, and he's blocking it like that because he just gets more votes, he's been elected, but he has absolutely no representative of one except himself. So if that's what we want, let's approve. I think it's nonsense. All we would have seen is that we would have different populists here who might be the only ones to get their group into the municipal council for this and they would have absolutely, absolutely no support in the council of the municipality, the city, or even the region if we were to introduce a direct choice of mayors. So I fundamentally object to this idea, I think it's a cheap, very populist gesture. I think people have no problem with how communities work. I don't think people have a problem with how mayors are elected. In most municipalities, the mayors are elected, or the mayors really become those who are wanted by people to do the mayor. It's about the authority's responsibility, the responsibility of those parties. And I don't think one person would be the only one, because that's possible, one person who would become mayor and wouldn't have anyone else behind him, could somehow fulfill the program better than the mayor is doing today. So this is a big nonsense, and I suggest that this proposal and this press be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u12	Thank you. So, now I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Miroslav Kalousek with a factual remark, after which Mr Fiedler. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u13	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I took a factual note to express my personal position, and it was not confused with the attitude of the entire club. I'll be very brief. I have already made a grave mistake, motivated by populism and alibism, when I voted in favour of the President's direct election, hoping that this would not pass. I won't make that mistake again. That is why I can never support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u14	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, with Mr Fiedler's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u15	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard our views here, on the one hand, on the part of the petitioner, on the other hand, and on the other hand, the opponents who criticized it. I listened carefully to my colleague Chvojka's arguments. I know these reservations, they're mentioned. And because I want to introduce a substantive debate on this, a real one, a real one, a real one, I have a question. It was said here for our party how many states this works. You give specific examples where it's just not the best experience. Can you tell which of the states that accepted it then left? That the problems were such that they went to change the law and went back to the original version? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u16	I thank Mr Fiedler and next time I ask him to address my colleague Chvojka through me. Mrs Miroslava Němcová, then Mr Martin Novotný, then Mr Chvojka. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u17	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the law is wrong to be rejected at first reading. The discussion will take place with him. I share the arguments that have so far been raised by Mr Chvojka, but there will certainly be others. The question that was raised, in which countries they accepted a direct mayor's choice and then left it because it was unbearable, was wrong, well, let's answer that ourselves. Once we've adopted a direct presidential election, we'll never get rid of it, however we see it's bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u18	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Another point of fact is Mr Novotný, after whom Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u19	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on the introduction of a direct election of mayors is, of course, a purely hypothetical debate on the change of one of the pillars of our constitutional system. To conduct this debate at the level of six or seven sentences of the constitutional change without a comprehensive consideration of changing the functioning of all municipal authorities, without a deep analysis of such a system, it is at the level of imagining the famous model when Hurvínek imagines war. We can now discuss this for hours and hours, but at the level of the proposal that is tabled, it is a completely pointless debate. If anyone makes this proposal comprehensively, I will oppose it myself, because I think that the system that is today works well and citizens are happy with it. On the other hand, without any complex proposal, this debate is wasting time on all of us. At the level of six or seven sentences, there is really no solution to any level of our country's constitutional system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I got an apology. Today from 17.30 to the end of the day, Mr Böhnisch apologizes for reasons of work. In addition, President Okamura is entered in the debate with priority rights. [[Ambassador Chvojka reporting from the diaper with a factual remark.]] In that case, I am sorry, but I have overlooked Mr Chvojka's factual comment. My colleague Gazdík and I just took turns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u21	Thank you for the floor. You couldn't see it because you weren't there yet. I have been summoned, so I will try to respond to my colleague from Dawn, and in some way I will follow up on my colleague Novotný from ODS. I don't really care which states it works in. I know this choice, "indirect," works also, historically, and I don't see why I should change anything, something that works, change it to something that may work somewhere else. If we look in the U.S., there is also a direct choice of judges and it works there somehow. And I think it's a system that just nobody in America cares about and works. But I don't know why I'd do it here. It's just that the mayor's choice here works as it is, that's what it means in the deputies. I haven't read, but there's never been a voter behind me that he wouldn't mind. I also work as a representative of the town of Chrudim. I just know the conditions in municipal politics. Nobody cares that the mayor just isn't elected directly. [[17.40 hours]] It's just an artificial theme that you brought into politics because you don't have much else to talk about. I don't think there's much of you - I don't mean any harm - in the club either, who do community policy. Maybe if you did it, that knowledge would be better and that you wouldn't suggest that. It's just something that might work somewhere, but the system that's here works too. I don't know why I would experiment with something we don't know would work. This is where the system works. Why change it? That's nonsense. We know experience from Slovakia. What happens there is that the mayor himself is the only one of the deputies who has some kind of agenda, maybe he doesn't listen from the 15-member council, he doesn't care, the program is unacceptable to them, and what does he do? He can't do anything. And I just want the mayor, if he's on my side, to push through something, not that there's gonna be a figure, some artist, for example, or a sushi salesman, who's gonna be the first and only person in that council, but otherwise no one's gonna stand behind him and push anything at all. I want a mayor who's gonna push for something. And only the mayor who's behind the council is gonna make that happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u22	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would have responded calmly to some of these complaints. There's been a complaint that it works today and that today's choice is serious. So I would just remind the numbers. On the contrary, if electoral participation in municipal elections is less than 50 per cent serious for citizens, I do not think that citizens are interested in engaging more in public affairs for the current system. If I recall the last regional election, they had a share of 40 percent, and we propose a direct choice, a change in the constitution, which allows for the direct choice of the captains, but most importantly it's about the worries. I would repeat the number here that I said a moment ago from the STEM/MARK survey, which, by the way, the Mayors and the Independents have also produced, it follows that only the introduction of a direct election would increase citizens' participation in the elections by 10 percent. That means, now we hear from critics that the current choice is serious. So if voting below 50% is serious, I don't know, but I'd say the seriousness is, if it's over half, the interest of those citizens. That's basically what this is about. Furthermore, I would like to reiterate the latest STEM/MARK survey dedicated to the direct election of mayors, and I have already said here that 86.3 percent of Czech citizens wish to make a direct choice. That means, if it was the ideal state that's here today, maybe it'd be 40 percent, 30 percent, or in any case half, or maybe a little over half, and we could discuss it. But if 86.3 percent of the citizens want a direct choice of mayors, then we should allow it to the citizens. So I'm just saying this over here. And that's exactly whether we're the elites who decide about citizens, or whether we're the politicians who at least in this tiny, I'd say a concession towards greater citizens' involvement gave those citizens a chance. And I think we should definitely give the citizens that chance. Here came the question of my colleague Karel Fiedler, who unfortunately we did not receive an answer because she is not a satisfactory answer. I will answer for you, in which country they introduced a direct choice of mayors and then in which country the citizens were so dissatisfied with this choice that they canceled it. We are not going to have an answer here, because the vast majority of countries that have made a direct choice continue to have one. This means that there is no answer that more countries that have introduced it will then abolish it. No. The vast majority of the countries that have introduced it continue to have it. That's the answer, so we won't even know the answer here, because the critics don't know the answer is not possible. And I would say it again, I have it ready here, I have read it here again, the direct choice is introduced in Europe in these countries: Germany, Poland, Austria, and I think it would be good to approach the Western world, in Austria according to the federal country, Slovakia, Italy, Greece, Cyprus, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Macedonia, Albania, Hungary. In England and Wales, citizens decide first in a local referendum whether they will be directly or indirectly. That means, here's a different question. If the Chamber of Deputies here wants to comply with 86 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic, whether we want to increase the electoral participation of citizens by at least half, by 10 percent, and whether we want to join all the countries in the region around us, plus the countries that I have named here for example. And these countries, not even one of them I've said, not only have they introduced, but they're not going to cancel. Then there was such a question that they said there were no clear powers and how it would be. We all know, even lawyers know that the powers are quite clear, that it has been working for years in these countries, and the powers are clearly divided, and the problems there are quite clearly, compared to the current situation - everyone, even the representative system, even the direct choice, has its critics and supporters. Not one condition is ideal. That's what I'm saying. But the point is that the direct choice at that at least municipal level is actually being evaluated by all these countries, that it is a little bit better for those citizens. I'm not saying that... yeah, they're different opinions. So let me just say and point out again that that is why we did not lay down the implementing law. That is, after all, an intention, as is the case with the referendum law that is given in the Constitution, and to this day it is not here, even after 20 years, as a service law, which was finally adopted and it was in the Constitution and after years we agreed on something here, so we voted as the only ones against it, but it went through the House against the version. So I would just like to stress once again that we would like to ask you to agree at least on the release to discuss the direct choice for second reading. The constitutional change then, she doesn't make a direct choice. That's what the implementing law is for, and if we agree to this by the end of the term, that's the question, but at least it's the limit. On the contrary, having that space for years, for years, depends on all of you. So that we can agree on what parameters should be for a direct option, if any. And we all know that this is how it is, so by allowing the boundaries of the surrounding countries that I have named here, following the pattern of all the countries around the Czech Republic, we are not yet implementing this, on the contrary, there is a huge scope here, and we see that there is even twenty years of this space here in the referendum law, when it is being discussed, and it is not yet in place. So I'd just say, in a few words, how does this, I'd say, example of a universal model work? The mayor and the council have separate powers. That means they don't overlap. That means, there's no overlap between them in any way. The mayor is a representative of the municipality and the highest executive body of the municipality, which carries out the administration of the municipality. But that doesn't include the law. I am responding to the question of the implementing law, what would be the division of their powers, in fact. The mayor shall convene and hold a meeting of the municipal council and the municipal council. It shall sign the resolutions adopted by them. By failing to sign a resolution, the council may suspend its enforcement if it considers that it is contrary to the law or manifestly disadvantageous to the municipality. The Mayor shall represent the municipality on the outside in relation to national authorities, natural and legal persons. The mayor of the municipality decides in all matters of the municipality's administration, unless it is by law or by statute, it is approved by the council, reserved for the municipal council. The Mayor is also a statutory body in the property relations of the municipality and employment relations of the employees of the municipality. The mutual position of the council and the mayor is not founded, and I would like to stress this, that is the important point, on the principle of leadership and subjection, but it is the bodies of correlation. The mayor's mandate is terminated on the basis of statutory tax reasons, including the announcement of the outcome of the vote by the residents of the municipality on the appeal of the mayor. This is an expression of the mayor's political responsibility towards the inhabitants of the village. On the basis of the local referendum law, there may be a referendum by the inhabitants of the municipality on the appeal of the mayor. In particular, it should be cases where the mayor grossly or repeatedly neglects his official duties, respectively. infringes legislation if the absence of the mayor or his incapacity to perform his duties lasts for more than six months, etc. [[17.50 hours]] The advantage of the system of direct election of the mayor is that power in the village is divided, the mayor as an independent body is a counterweight to the municipal council. The mayor's office is an individual position and is in this sense under greater control by the citizens of the community who can call it off in the local referendum. Another advantage is simpler and more flexible administration of the municipality. Another advantage is that the direct election of the mayor means the broadest involvement of citizens in the administration of the community, and that is precisely one of the advantages. And now what are the powers of the council of the community. And I'm saying again, it's just a model. This is a model that I'm giving one here, namely it's a Slovak example, but we can agree on an implementing law that we don't deliberately propose to have a broad political consensus, and we can take time for it, I repeat. Any model that's from functional countries, like the West, so don't take my word for it here, I'm just explaining the question of how, because here it was said that the mayor, if he doesn't have the support of the council, etc., so I'm explaining how it actually works here. On the other hand, the municipality's representative has other powers. The municipality's representative is carrying out a control activity, e.g. the management control, determines the principles of the management and management of the property of the municipality and the property of the State in use, approves the budget and its changes, checks on the drawing of the budget, approval of the municipal zoning plan, approval of the final account, etc. The representative should also be able to initiate a vote to remove the mayor from office. However, the Mayor's appeal alone would be carried out on the basis of the citizens' vote in the local referendum. The mutual position of the council and mayor is therefore not based on the principle of superiority and subjection. The representative can therefore not assign tasks to the mayor. The representative is legally entrusted with the decision-making power in matters which are legally specified. In the Statute, the Board may reserve decisions on other matters. However, he cannot reserve decisions in matters reserved by law to the mayor of the municipality. About the mayor's election, and it's only for a few more minutes. The mayor of the municipality is elected by the residents of the municipality who have permanent residence on its territory, on the basis of general, equal and direct voting rights by secret ballot, and it would probably be for a four-year term. There may be a voter who has no obstacles to the exercise of the right to vote, which means the execution of the sentence of imprisonment, virtually. the waiver or limitation of eligibility for legal acts, etc., and which was completed at the latest on election day - and this is the model abroad - 25 years of age. 25 years old. But this is for discussion, of course. That's all for discussion. Each municipality is formed for the election of the one-and-a-half constituency. Candidate lists for the election of mayors may be submitted by political parties, each of which may include only one candidate on the list. Political parties may also submit candidates with a joint candidate. Independent candidates may also run for mayor; in this case, a petition signed by a specified number of voters supporting the mayor's candidacy is part of the nomination. The candidate for mayorship must have permanent residence in the village. In the village he's running for. A candidate who has won the highest number of votes will grow. There are new elections at the same time, or if you want the second round. That means, actually, the models are completely set. Again, I have listed half the countries of the European Union, half the countries of Europe where it works. I stress again, it is in all countries around the Czech Republic, whether it is west, east, north or south. This is what I wanted to answer the arguments. It's long overdue in other countries, it's long overdue, it's not a problem, and basically no country has ever canceled it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I have a few factual points. The first is Mrs Němcová, then Mr Adam, Mr Jakubčík and beyond. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u25	Thank you. Just two notes on the speech. Firstly, with regard to the opinion poll, on the basis of which there could be an increase of 10 per cent in electoral participation, I would like to remind Mr Okamur that there is a direct election to the Senate and that there has never been any dramatic electoral participation during it. She's rusty, in the second round, sometimes about ten, tops, percent. First of all. Secondly, as to whether the directly elected mayor will be under greater control. So I can no longer imagine in small and medium-sized municipalities or in smaller towns as you would imagine. There is no anonymity for municipal policy today. People are under constant day-to-day control, I almost think that in small towns and towns it is self-sacrifice when people enter this role because they are under this control every day. The direct mayor's choice will not help to ensure that the degree of anonymity, which is normally in large mansions, of large cities, makes the control of this chosen direct mayor greater. From this, the council, which is also composed of opposition and coalition parties, serves much better in large mansions, where every movement of each crown and every personal decision is controlled. In this respect, I think that colleague Okamura has no insight into how municipalities operate, most likely because he has never worked in the communal sphere, has not worked, unlike many of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u26	Thank you, Madame. Now, then, Mr Adam, with his point of fact, Mr Jakubčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u27	I only have a rhetorical question to the absent President Kalousek through the President present. Would you be against the direct election of the president even if your candidate won? Does democracy only work if your candidate wins, and if he doesn't win, is democracy bad? Or how do I explain it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u28	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Jakubčík, then Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues, I like numbers. President Okamura has included us here with numbers, how all citizens want a direct choice, how they would look forward to it, but I think the situation is a little different. In 2013, there were 8.5 million voters in our Republic. Exactly 8 424 227. The election was attended, or voted, by less than 5 million people, 4 969 984 people voted. The party that advocated direct choice voted for 342 339 people, which is 6.88 %. I am not convinced that of the 8.5 million people 342 339 is a dizzying number and that this entitles us to approach this in the Czech Republic, in the Czech representative democracy, to a completely unprecedented step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u30	Thank you. Mr Chvojka will now prepare Mr Okamura and then Mr Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u31	Thank you for the floor, just a few more short notes, then I won't respond. We, through Mr President, disagree with Mr Okamura, can do nothing. Three notes. As far as the mayor's dismissal is concerned with the citizens of the village or the city, I can't imagine, or nothing would happen except that the opposition and the mayor, or someone who doesn't like the mayor, would do anything other than that there would be various referendums, various meetings, various gatherings on the mayor's appeal. Why? Well, 'cause that's a pretty good place to make yourself visible. There may be no other reason. The mayor can be absolutely great, but if we have this opportunity to call someone off, then why don't we try it on, because it's just a pretty good tool to make ourselves visible. That's nonsense. It would really scare me if this happened. As far as the council is concerned, it's also nonsense. The representation is not supposed to be a counterweight, it is meant to be an authority in which the mayor has a majority in order to promote his program for which he was elected, respectively. the party for which he was elected, and not that there is any counterweight or competition. That's just bullshit, pardon me, the biggest caliber. This has already been said by my colleague Němcová, a really direct or quasi-direct choice does not cause any high voter turnout. I looked at my honored colleague Okamura when he was running for office in Zlinsk in 2012, and he obtained his mandate with a participation of 26%. And it's a direct choice, and it didn't mean that the senator at the time, when he won, had any larger mandate, or was there any larger voter turnout. It's just nonsense, there wouldn't be more electoral participation, the municipal system, the way we've conceived it, works, and there's no reason to change it just on the basis of some populist gestures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u32	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read one apology. For working reasons, from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, Mrs Zelienková apologizes. Mr Okamura and Mr Lank are now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I would have responded here. This is where we talked about the mayor control. But we're clearly talking about something a little different here. I would just like to remind you that my colleague here spoke of my lack of experience in community policy. So truth, the 78 municipalities and cities that I had in the senate district when the mayors told me that they were dissatisfied with it, and it follows from the public surveys that I read here, or from the public sources here, that they are often taken by the council, they need to give representatives, for example, the various work that the community is doing to prevent them from being deposed, and the strong mayors, the popular ones, would generally welcome the direct choice. Otherwise, you said what in the big city? So we just happened to be in contact with the mayor of Cologne, West German Cologne. And we asked him if he was directly elected. Yes, it is. So now I don't know if - I don't quite understand the argument right now, because, on the contrary, even the largest cities in the world, often world-famous cities, have directly elected mayors. And you know all the other examples. Take a look at the United States and so on. I now - and they are often much larger cities, world cities really, which are in the Western world. Election participation in the Senate, so I didn't understand it at all, because the reason for low participation in the Senate is that the Senate doesn't want citizens. I mean, it's completely different. That is why - yes, you are right, when you compare electoral participation in municipal elections and Senate elections, it is different, but that is not an expression of the fact that direct election to mayors does not bring higher participation, it is not an argument that the Senate is low. I didn't get it at all, because the Senate election is at national level, the national legislature, and that's how citizens feel about it, they're not stupid. And the Senate thinks most people are useless, that's why the participation is low. And you have to tell yourself that's the reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u34	I'm sorry, Mr President, your time for a point of fact is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u35	Sorry, yeah, so I'm applying again for de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u36	Thank you. Mr Lank is next in fact, Mr Novotný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, a lovely evening at the moment. He's the President of Okamura who kind of took away what I was about to say. I also wanted to respond to some of the previous speakers, and I really think that comparing Senate elections with municipal elections is not entirely fair, because we really know that Senate elections simply do not go away, whereas the communal really cares about these people. And when it comes to direct elections in municipal elections, the smaller the village or the city, it already basically works there in its own way. Let us not take any big illusions that people in the villages choose parties first. They choose the people they know first. And often they don't really care what side they're behind, they just have to prove themselves, and whether they're non-Partisans or then they enter a party, they're eventually chosen by the people. It's simply that they know the neighbor or the person they know and know what he's ever done for them or can do for them. I don't see why not let them do it formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u38	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Novotný and then by President Stanjura. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u39	So, colleagues, I don't want to extend the debate too much, I just wanted to read here a list of those uncivilized European countries where the direct choice is not where the indirect choice is. They are Belgium, Finland, the Netherlands, France, Denmark, Ireland, Luxembourg, Sweden, Spain, Malta, Croatia, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. Then there are countries where there's a mix where both of these systems are in some parts. And I remember, for example, the differences between the Southern German and North German systems, when in the partner city of the city in which I headed a few years ago, in Bavaria, the mayor was elected so that when he was elected for the first time, he was elected, say, for four years, when he managed to defend the mandate, he had already been elected for six years and I suspect that in the third choice he was even eight years old. It was interesting, but of course it was combined with the fact that the mayor had completely different powers and a completely different relationship with the council of the municipality, some possible council, and so on in the South German system. All I'm saying is that the debate, without connecting the two planes, is the straight line of the debate about direct choice and the whole setup of the model, makes no sense at all. I am convinced that at this point there are no reasons to open the subject, and I really think that our system is basically working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u40	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of President Stanjura, after whom Mr Laudát. I have you marked in order, Mr. Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u41	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I apologize to my three colleagues, they are all experienced municipal politicians, unlike many of the proponents of this law. Martin Novotný said something. I think it is not just us who agree, but citizens that if something works and has majority support and trust of citizens, they are municipalities. And here's a suggestion to dismantle the system. Yes, it might work, but then the directly elected mayor or mayor would, in my opinion, have to have the authority of the board. And who knows the authority of the council, so ask yourself, do we want to concentrate so much into one hand? And I say no. That's very dangerous. Yes, it can work well if the mayor or mayor or mayor or mayor is in her place, but it can also have very unfortunate consequences. The Council has great staffing powers, great powers in the management of property, within the framework of budgetary measures - and that is what I would call it. Each of you who has ever sat on the council or on the council - I have been a member of the council for 17 years and for eight years I have had the opportunity to be mayor and it is a great job, but I would not want to have the powers of counsel in one hand, in my own. If we're gonna talk about something, let's talk about the electoral system. Do you really think these sails are something that citizens welcome? We're confusing voters, and we're saying that they're supposed to give preferential votes in municipal elections. These are the only elections in which a citizen cannot exercise a preferential vote. There's no such thing in a municipal election. So let's try to have fun before we write the law, whether there will be any will to change this law, so that the citizen actually has preferential votes in municipal elections. I'm afraid I can't. This proposal does not have our support and cannot have our support. And who wants to concentrate power into one hand should call it the real name and not say it's for the benefit of the citizens. It's just not like that. . [[Applause from the right side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u42	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Laudát, the President of Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u43	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond here to a very interesting question from my colleague Adam. If Kalousek - he is not here, I will respond - he simply protested or apologized for the President's direct election if Mr. Karel Schwarzenberg was president. I don't think so, because, you know the weakness of every system, or you know the error in legislation when a person who uses the law on the edge or even beyond, or even exploits it, gets into that position. That means that if Mr. Schwarzenberg were there, I'm 100% sure he wouldn't be doing the laptops that the current president is doing, so maybe it would show up, the weakness of the proposal, until the next generations, when someone like that would have gotten there. And you have that under every law. After all, it is always - we should demand and expect from these people - even the society that one thing is law and the other is a sort of common law, a kind of sense of interpretation of the law and of its fulfillment. If you take any law and go really intensively to use it regardless of customary law, you're gonna put this country on its head. It's exactly a number of things, it's when you appoint a government -- either you follow some decent behavior, or you leave the government without a mandate for months for nothing, and the winner, the legitimate winner of the election, you just keep it waiting, and it actually gets to the brink of decency. The same with the appointment, I don't know, of some bank board or whatever. So every time someone violates the common law combined and is insensitive to existing legislation, the weaknesses of the system are revealed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Okamura, then Mr Svoboda and Mr Kořenek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just be quick. Here were the arguments about the experience of community policy. I would just like to remind you that the proposal for a direct vote also promotes the movement of Mayors and Independents, who have several hundred mayors and various representatives. So I guess it's not like it's about inexperience, it's just the opposite. [[18.10 hours]] Another thing I'd like to say about the 6.88 percent in the election. That's another argument that, I don't know, I don't think it's quite optimal, because you know that in elections, money also depends on how much money you have, how much money you can pay for media space, etc. So it's not an argument against a direct choice. We could say that last year was the only úsvit who proposed the law on usury. We were the first to propose a law on executors, territoriality, which was both denied. And we could say weird isn't important, that everything's okay with the bailiffs, because it was designed by úsvit, which was 6.88. That's not true. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just saying, one of my colleagues here said that I've named a list of non-civilized countries. It's not like that. I didn't say civilized-uncivilized. I was just saying which countries it is, and there's a lot of them. And again, let's discuss this, please! I mean, there's no problem letting it go into second reading. Take time to discuss committees. If the House then considers that it is not optimal after all, after the discussion through the political spectrum that we would like to allow. It's a model that works, like I said, in a huge number of countries, all around us. So he's definitely not bad. And then, for example, when you decide in the third reading that it is different, it was already necessary for the law on usury. And the last thing I wanted to say was with the board. But there's nothing to limit - well, we're not suggesting it, but if it's the House, we'll be happy for it. [[unintelligible]] For example, the direct election of mayors would be only up to a certain number of inhabitants of the village. Therefore, we do not have to deal with advice, because small communities do not have advice. That means the variations are different. That's why I'm only asking for your support so we can discuss it. Because I think that's a good suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u46	Thank you. I have another note here. Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes today from 18:00 for reasons of work. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Svoboda, and after that, Mr Kořenek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u47	Thank you for the floor. I had the opportunity to speak with Mayor Bratislava, who is directly elected. And the problems she's having are huge. Although he has a far greater authority than the representatives of our country. I think the accumulation of power in one hand is very dangerous. I have experience with this in the medical department, where it's chosen directly. The moment that the man who is placed at the head of the chamber doesn't follow the principles of his election, he becomes a veritable pest. I would, Mr Okamura, through Mr President, I would very much like you to be directly elected Mayor of the capital city of Prague, and then I would come to see you, because you would be, pardonfully, a clown!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u48	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Kořenek and Mr Vácha will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u49	I'd only take a few specific examples. It fell here, how it works, and Slovakia was also remembered. I've been watching the Slovak political scene for a long time, even on the municipal policy, because I have very close ties. As regards increasing citizens' interest in municipal policy, the last percentage of participation in the Slovak Republic was 48,34 percent, participation in municipal policy elections. As regards the higher regional authorities in 2013, this was 20 per cent. The robes were elected in the second round, where attendance was 11, 17, 22, the most likely had the Banskobystrica Region. How it turned out, I think we know. As far as competence is concerned, I know the municipalities and cities that were our partners and where the mayor or mayor had to devote most of his energy to fighting with his deputies and the energy that he could devote to the development of the city, unfortunately he wasted here. So I'd be very careful with those examples from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u50	Thank you. Mr Vácha and Mr Fiedler are now registered with the factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the right the information mentioned by Mr Okamura. Yes, some Members of the TOP 09 Club and the Mayors and Independent Movement have made a proposal for a direct choice of mayors. But because they are connected to the mayors, they have discussed this with the mayors, President Okamura, through the President. And part of this proposal is just what you said could be discussed, part of the proposal is that mayors would only vote in municipalities up to 2000 inhabitants, only in municipalities where there is no council. That means, where only the mayor is, maybe with some cleaning lady, but there's no advice, there's no council. It only means small communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u52	Thank you. Mr Fiedler has made a final point of fact so far. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u53	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry to be - a little bit, but I'm just going to take a little step away from this thing - but I'm going to respond in a matter of fact to the numbers that were said here, and I'm going to be very short. There's been a couple of low-election figures here, if the system changed, that even this didn't lift the vote, that was low. The numbers 14 per cent, 16 per cent, 28 per cent shall be indicated. I, my fellow Members, hope that you will remember the figures that you have given on electoral participation. And once again, when we're debating the referendum, you're going to repeat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u54	Thank you. So far, I don't see anyone here with a point of fact. Mr. Vácha. You've got room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u55	Thank you. I have to say it, I have to fix myself. The proposal does not include 2,000, but 1,500 inhabitants in the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u56	We will now proceed to a proper debate, in which Mr Bendl is first signed up, Mr Adamec will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said a lot, but I have to respond to some things that have not yet fallen. I don't care about the rude populism on which such a proposal is lifted. It's only on the surface. I've read that citizens think it would be better if we voted for the mayor directly. Without knowing anything about it. Without knowing anything about competences myself, and how that council works, I'm going to suggest a large number of competences, because that's going to bring us some points. We're not really responsible for this. We're just telling those who think without, and it's not their duty, they know the inside of the system. Without knowing the functioning of the public administration. Without knowing all the details, it probably doesn't matter to Mr Okamur. The point is, I read something on the Internet, and that could throw some point. It's irresponsible populism. Absolutely irresponsible populism, nothing about which Mr. Okamura and his associates. They don't know. I admit that I am in conflict of interest because at this point, I am the representative of a small village and I was the mayor of the city and I was the governor. This proposal, in essence, if we really go into detail and start talking very seriously about which competence the directly elected mayor should have, if it should be the budget, if it is to be one person who decides on millions of crowns, where they will be invested. And who's gonna approve him? In Slovakia, the mayor is proposing it, as far as I know, but he approves the council. I've been out there with these people, I've had a lot of friends in the mayors for years, and I know what an absolute fight was for them, and how often there are collapses. As the system is very unstable, when the majority of the mayor struggled with it often got into the councils, and it actually blew up all the neighbourly and interpersonal relationships within the community. This obviously does not matter to Mr Okamur - through the President - at all. I think the system that's here -- clearly, we're gonna find fault with it, because it's a lot about people, whether they're able to cooperate or not. Whether they have good will or not. The system we have is traditionally representative democracy. Traditional for the Czech Republic or former Czechoslovakia. I think changing it means changing the entire public administration system. [[18.20 hours]] That there's no comparison or mix with the president's choice. Arguing the number of people who have come to the election... Well, there's a lot of people who go to municipal elections. The largest number of people. To those senators, that's what we've been told here, the smallest number of people. Maybe even the Euro-Options, that's the same thing, it's really pulling the voters very hard. I think it's something else that's bothering the community. And I'm saying again, I'm extremely upset about the populism that's being brought up with here because it's not a thing. The point is to look like I'm representing the nation here, and I'm the one who picks up some percentage. It's stupid. It's too stupid. And, of course, we can discuss it. After all, Mr Okamura can prepare a lecture and call a seminar for this. I'll be happy to attend if he invites me, if he's well-prepared, and he'll have the systems and possibly the representatives of those countries where it works, so we can see all the details and the differences, and he'll have the work to do with it... Well, why not? But this proposal is here populistly just to be written about in the paper, so that all those who don't know the system, the subtle nuances of the functioning of the public administration, to be offered it only as a bone to jump on. But the person who is already sitting here should be responsible enough to appreciate the Czech Republic so much that he knows that if something like this were to happen, the whole system of functioning of the state administration must be changed. And in a situation where communities need something completely different, it is completely irresponsible. I'm begging you to pull it back. And in case you don't download it, I'm joining the motion for rejection because this is completely pointless to concern myself with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u58	Thank you. I have here one point of fact - Mr Černoch. After that, Mr Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u59	Thank you. I, by your means, Mr President, would like to speak to my colleague Bendl. Everyone has a program. And the Dawn of Direct Democracy has a program that focuses on direct democracy. And whether it's right or wrong, it's up to this House to discuss it, to get it into committees where it's processed, where everyone can express themselves. And I think these rumors are totally uncalled for and useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u60	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Okamura, followed by Mr Adam. Adamec, sorry. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, once again briefly. After all, populism can't be when we're doing the program we promised. That's the argument. If then there are populist countries like Germany, Switzerland, Austria... It's really the debate that's slipping down to the meaningless plane. So, please, let's argue on a case-by-case basis. The most advanced countries in the world and, of course, the United States, when I go outside Europe, have a direct choice. So please, let's really argue in some way factually. I've been trying all along. By the way, I've got the Parliamentary Institute-- a direct choice of mayors. And we didn't give any political assignments. And it is not just the Okamura proposal, any evaluation, but the Parliamentary Institute itself writes that as a typical argument for the direct choice of mayors, it is the fact that they can revive the political participation of citizens at local level, because the direct choice is a direct link between voters and self-government. Furthermore, the Parliamentary Institute says that the advantage of direct election of mayors is the clear separation of the performance of state administration and self-government at the level of municipalities, if the mayor is independently responsible for the performance of state administration. So the Parliamentary Institute, Mr Mgr Štěpán Pecháček, Mr. . Mgr Martin Kuta, I don't even know them personally. But we had it processed precisely because we were aware of certain criticisms of our previous proposals - we also have the proposal agreed and processed and commented here. That means, I'm saying again, I wanted to ask you to let it go to second reading, where they did the debate through and through, it can take any length of time. And I promise I won't even tell you after two months why it's not here yet. Let's really discuss this from all sides. And if most of the House feels like a good model and we want to get closer to Austria, Germany, Switzerland, the UK and other of these worldly developed countries, then let's do it and let's do it at least for the municipalities, even if it's up to 1,500 to 2,000 people, but I think it'll be a good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Now, then, Mr Adamec, Mr Beznoska, will be prepared after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u63	So thank you, Mr President. I'm glad you finally got my name on the second try tonight, but I'm used to it, so -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u64	I apologized to you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u65	But I know, I don't take it personally either. [[There's a laugh on the right.]] Maybe I'll start by saying a few lines here. You know, I'm listening here, and I don't know if I should be upset or whether I'm supposed to be sad or whether it's worth talking to someone who's practically never been in touch with the government, something that's just in some kind of state, some kind of reality. And I am fascinated by the way apples and pears mix here, because mixing the Anglo-Saxon system of law with the European system of law is at least strange to me. And finally, when we talk about direct elections in other countries, it has to be said that this is about the electoral system. And that even those countries that gradually switched like Poland or Slovakia to a direct choice, so the system before that was a little different than in the Czech countries. We just have a different tradition here. We have representative democracy, we have a very small community here. And de facto, the council of the community has the most powers. I think it's the right thing to do, we're used to it, we're doing it. By the way, I'm saying this because I've been elected mayor of the county city five times the size of 31-32 thousand. I won all those elections in person. But the problem is really here in these elections -- and it needs to be said, if there's no need to talk about it for a while, that people don't actually know that they don't vote for the person directly, that de facto those preferential votes aren't preferential votes for specific people, but for those candidates. I think there's a little bit of a problem here. But that wouldn't bother me so much. I don't mind another thing at the moment. You know, she wins the group - political party, movement, independent - and instead of giving those who are second, third, the last to give the winners the opportunity to try to form the municipal government, so more and more often it happens just the opposite, that all the weak will unite against the strong. The last election was proof of that. And I can say that I, as the five-time mayor, almost always haven't suffered the election, you know who's going through the elections, it's kind of purgatory, but I suffered more from the post-election negotiations where it was very important to just somehow agree on how to build the winning coalition. And the ignorance at the moment... She's always been a little bit, to be completely honest... The ignorance of the winner irritates me. That's what needs to be said here. But on the other hand, to the direct choice. I think there's also a need to say what we want from the mayor. This is where Britain was argued. I know that in Britain, the mayor has more or less the golden chain at these events, but he's more or less the person representing the community in these social activities and his executive powers are virtually none. By the way, when you talk about the mayor's powers, there's one thing I'd like to say. The mayor has two powers. The first is to represent the village on the outside, which is a very debatable concept, everyone can interpret it a little differently, and then wear the urban insignia. There's no other authority for the mayor. He is one of the members of the council of the municipality or the city. That's what we have to say here. And to say that the mayor is being influenced by some lobbyist group of deputies threatening to be called off at the next council meeting, so please, that's not part of the reality. Most of the time, the opposition, if sharp, tries to send the mayor somewhere else and uses various practices. But he's a opposition, he's more or less entitled to it. And the council, in my opinion, the coalition, should have a programming statement and fulfill the program. So saying that the mayor, if he's directly elected, will have greater authority to enforce his electoral program, is completely false information, because the mayor without the council will not enforce anything at all. Unless his electoral program is just dating that gold hooker on those festive activities. That's what I was gonna say. [[There's a laugh on the right.]] Well, you need to put it this way completely and pour yourself clean wine. That's why I feel that actually changing the constitution without knowing what's going to come out of it, that really seems like a very non-standard procedure. And I'd be very careful about that. Maybe I'd like to sharpen what's going on in those civilized Western European countries where the direct elections are. You know, it had its own development. And it needs to be said when Germany was mentioned here. It's a little different in the federal states in each of them. But I, for example, have been going to countries like Hessen, I've been going to Franks, so there's a way that anyone who's even a citizen of the Federal Republic of Germany can run for mayor. [[18.30 hours]] There is no obligation to permanent residence at all. It just is, and the mayors really have a direct choice. I'll admit what their powers are, their powers to the council, I don't know about that in detail. But it's certainly not that the mayor is opposed to the council because it has no logic. The representative is not an opponent of the mayor, and the mayor is not an opponent of the council or in a direct election. As far as Slovakia is concerned, our city has years of relations with Slovakia, which go beyond 1989, and I must say that when they introduced the direct choice of their mayors there, the mayors had more or less the powers of counsel. And even in the first election, it turns out it's probably not right. What President Stanjura said here is one thing, and the other thing is what really happened in our case that the mayor was a right-wing politician, but the council was left-wing. So you can imagine, given the mayor's competence, what the mayor promised the citizens, what he would do to the community, and the council said, "But this way, we have a different program, and you're not gonna talk to us about it. So these are things that need to be said completely directly about, and it needs to be seen in the context of the whole matter and look at the situation a little bit more than just, I would say, Internet surveys. Otherwise, by the way, polls are surveys, and reality shows that it will turn out completely different. I remember that the YES movement also expected a completely different outcome in the last elections, and look where they got in the House and in the government. So the polls weren't exactly the right nut either. So I wouldn't put much on the polls, I would rather put on the experience of people in this field, and I have to say that experience, and also my personal experience with the mayors of small municipalities, with the mayors of ORPs, regions, from the government, are such that I have not heard from them that they would want a direct choice. And the appeal of politicians, when the current mayor's election from the council is clear, that's pretty much every council, and it keeps the city's leadership in the proper tension and the pressure and thrust on the gate, because it usually doesn't cause the opposition to appeal to the mayor. This will cause its own coalition if the mayor and the board fail to implement the electoral programme or coalition programme to which they have committed themselves. I would conclude by saying: Let us honor the traditions, the good traditions of our state. Let us remember that we could also say that in the surrounding civilized states, 6.5 thousand municipalities do not have 10 million inhabitants, and we have them and we honor them because we know that this is a practically hard-to-solve problem. Let us take it that in our representative system the council has the main power, and I would very much like it to remain that way, because any hasty conclusions and decisions of the House will then turn out that everyone or most say that I voted in favour of it then, but when I realized how it turned out, I would not have raised my hand for it today. I think we should be really careful. The old Brit have said: When Parliament sits, one is not sure about property or life. And that's double that right there. Of course, it's not about life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a point of fact, President Kalousek is signed in, and Mr Beznoska is due to the debate. Your point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a very brief argument with the opinion that it is a practice when influence groups threaten appeal. Times change, new order comes. Today, we have witnessed a trial of appeal without any threat. We just have to get used to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u68	Thank you and now Mr Beznoska, who is duly signed up for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u69	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Everything was said, my job was to think of something that no one had ever said before, I can't think of anything, so just a practical experience. Fourth term in the council, eight years at the town hall, I know a lot of local politicians, and no one ever mentioned that they wanted a direct election of mayors. All that Ivan Adamec said the last time, I would have signed, underlined, emphasized, also despite the fact that Mladá Boleslav has the longest partnership with the city in Slovakia, with Pezinko. Almost 80 years. Mr. Mayor Oliver Solga and I have discussed a number of direct choices. And I must tell you: let us be conservative in this regard. I'm a conservative man. What works is not to change, and especially not the constitution, because it would have to be a crucial thing to enter. Let us therefore stick to our model of parliamentary and representative democracy, it is a model of excellence, and let us reject this proposal made by our colleagues from Dawn of Direct Democracy at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u70	Thank you. I have here a factual comment by Mr Kádner. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u71	Thank you. Good evening, I will no longer delay, and I will not respond to what has fallen. Just for a little while. After all, despite what has fallen here, and I have to say that somewhere I could agree, somewhere not, so I have to say that now what I'm going to say is I'm talking about small towns. Even I can't imagine at this point that we would break everything down on the districts, on the edge and on, even though I can imagine it in the future, of course, but as my colleague Adamec said here, the problem with small municipalities, but even bigger ones, is that if he wins the candidate list, it doesn't mean that whoever's on the 1st and at that point the people have chosen it is really the mayor. I'm mayor of the second period, I haven't had five periods, but the fifth or fourth period in municipal politics, and I think small communities deserve this to come out before the election and say, I want to be mayor. And he was also, in some way, elected by some mandate. So I'd like to ask, because in the past period of TOP 09 and the Mayors had a proposal for a direct choice of mayors, I think up to 1,500 or 2,000 inhabitants, what just happened here, and Dawn wouldn't give a direct choice of mayors if there was one before. But I think that this proposal is at least a good chassis for second reading and I have to say that not in my community, but in other communities where the candidate has won... [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] There was supposed to be a certain mayor and he's only in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-017-053.u72	Thank you, too. I do not see anyone who has been entered further into the debate, nor with a factual remark. Isn't that right? In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the rapporteur and the appellant if you want to take the final floor. It's not like that. Okay, thank you. I have two suggestions here. The first is to reject and the second to return, which means we're going to vote. I suggest in order that first the motion to dismiss, in the event that it does not pass, the motion to return. If there is no one to contradict this procedure - isn't there? No, thank you. I'm registering the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. [[18.40 hours]] I shall vote on who agrees that this proposal is rejected at first reading. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? We have a vote with order number 139. Members present are 145, for proposal 95, against 17. I note that the motion for rejection has been accepted and this proposal is rejected in the first reading. I'm done discussing this point. I thank both the rapporteur and the petitioner. I'm gonna open another point that's
