ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 418/ - first reading We have already dealt with this House's press on 8 April this year at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it in the general debate. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, whom I do not see yet, but given that he is the rapporteur, he will certainly not miss it. He's here. Before we continue the interrupted general debate, I am asking the Minister of Agriculture if he is interested in a speech before the start of the sequel. It's not like that. Mr. rapporteur, are you interested in a performance? If this is not the case, we can continue with the general debate in which I have Mr Petr Bendl signed up. Mr. Ambassador, proper application or factual?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u2	Proper, Mr President. Thank you for the floor. I have already declared myself in the proper debate when I say, at the beginning of the discussion on the subject of the Consumer Tax Act, but since the debate was excited, there were dozens of requests for technical comments, etc., I did not get to the floor after a few hours. However, I honestly waited for the debate to close right before me, and we continued on a different point. If you recall the heated debate, there were a number of things that I think would be worth answering for those who were asked to explain. The Minister of Agriculture, who here defended rape as a useful agricultural crop and a very necessary one, can be traced in the log, his exact sentence in this sense, where he defended the amount of rape in the Czech Republic, including here. He said that this bill would bring about 14,000 new jobs. So I wanted to ask him where the new employment opportunities would appear, because the truth, I must say, was the chairman of the agricultural committee, Mr Faltýnek, who said that more rape can no longer be grown in our country, because there is a rule here called the rotational procedure that every farmer must follow, and although almost, I will say, all of the logic of the matter is trying to get the most out of it, because it is economically advantageous and will be even more advantageous in the future, so no more areas can be gained. Maybe by some hectare, but the 350 to 390 thousand hectares that rape has in the Czech Republic today, we will no longer increase the Czech Republic, and all farmers are trying to grow rape because it is economically advantageous for them. The Minister of Agriculture here has told us that this law will bring 14,000 new jobs, so I want to ask where, first of all, where. Secondly, when I said that the Chairman of the Agricultural Committee is right that more rape than there is, it will no longer fit in the Czech Republic, but we will need it more, because in this law we propose that we fill the quotas as quickly as possible. So where's the rape coming from? He'll be delivered. It's already imported about 1/3. She's also partially exported. However, it will be delivered. And the moment the need rises in the Czech Republic, what happens? Well, he'll get a ride and he'll work somewhere. The message to Czech farmers is not that there will be more rape. She'll still be as old as she is. The message to Czech farmers is - it will be advantageous for you until 2017, but then not much, because the quotas will probably fall. Until then, we will bring in the maximum amount of rape and process it in factories that are all generally known. This is no business for farmers, for those of you who felt that rape would be more for farmers. No, gentlemen and ladies. There'll only be more business where rape is processed. That's the whole thing we should have talked about first. It's not about helping farmers, it's about scandalous rape, it's also scandalous that the Minister of Agriculture here praises it instead of saying less rape and more fodder wheat when I simplify it. But he says rape is fine, let's be happy for her, it's actually great. Let's not make it an advantage by 2020, but it's enough by 2017. We will actually bring the rest, because, and again, the chairman of the agricultural committee is right, there is no more rape to fit into the Czech Republic, because there is no inflatable and the number of hectares that allows us to sow the seeding procedure with rape is not inflatable either. I would like you to be very aware of the fact that, in fact, we are actually just saying that we need to raise the production capacity for the processing of rape, where I will leave it to you to answer your own questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u3	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I confess that this discussion is almost in vain because the previous point, paragraph 417, clearly stated how motivated and paid the will of individual members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament. Because if we had agreed to Mr Karel Rais's proposal that the tax aid for clean biofuels would end, we did not have to discuss this proposal at all. This point, presented here by Minister Jurečka - the truth, took him quite a while to actually understand what he was actually presenting, but now he knows that he is presenting an amendment to the Act on Consumer Tax and that he is presenting an amendment to the Act on Air Protection, and the amendment to the Act on Consumer Tax belongs to the Minister of Finance and the amendment to the Act on Air Protection belongs to the Minister of the Environment. And this is presented by Minister Jurečka for KDU-ČSL, and he presents it so that what Minister Babiš said here at the last meeting could apply: I didn't do anything, it was Jurečka. Jureka wants it all, I don't have any of it. If you look at the servers from today's press hearing 417, you can read the statement by President Faltýnek, who, when confronted with why ANO Members lie and change their position from day to day, said, we will of course support Mr Rais, then we did not support him, we want it, then we do not want it, so President Faltýnek, I refer to the open sources, says to you, colleagues from coalition parties: we would like to support Mr Rais, but the Social Democrats and the People's Party insist that this be the case. [[17.10 hours]] We just didn't do anything, we musicians. We're just gonna steal five billion for our chairman, because he's our chairman, and after all, he didn't start for free, so we're gonna steal five billion, but it's the people's fault, and it's the Social Democrats' fault. So I hope you won't be mad at us for not wanting to blame you. We just want to say to the public that it doesn't really matter if they vote for Babiš or Bělobrádek or Sobotka. When it comes to $5 billion, you always agree to steal it together and blame it on some community service, which is exactly what you're doing right now. In other words, if we raised our hand in Law 417 for Mr Rais's amendment, which you promised, you said 'if it was Mr Rais's proposal, we would support it', there was nothing to vote on in this law and we could declare it useless. This law states that the tax aid for clean biofuels continues, the proposal of Mr Rais has ended it, so there would be nothing left to talk about in this bill, and in the second Act, the Act on Air Protection, it is described how the taxed component is to be monitored since it is less taxed than it should be, which would also be completely unnecessary. We are therefore discussing a completely unnecessary law that we would not have had to discuss if you had not lied and cheated before, dear colleagues. If you keep your word that you will support Mr Karel Rais's proposal, this proposal has been consumed and emptied and no longer needed to be mentioned. But since you're lying because, I'm sorry, you're stealing -- that is, if you were at least stealing each other for yourself, I'd be looking for some sense in it, but you're stealing for one single person named Andrej Babiš. And now I think - President Votava looks a little offended at me. But I am very sorry - you are stealing for President YES 2011, Mr President, because he has the five billion there. You approved that. And once again, I ask all journalists not to say that it is five billion according to Miroslav Kalousek, but to understand that it is five billion according to the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance says that it will cost all taxpayers nine billion crowns, i.e. roughly each of us from citizens of the Czech Republic, including infants and pensioners, will give CZK 500 to tax relief for first generation biofuels. Also, the Ministry of Finance's material says that the market share of Agrofert is about 60 percent. I'm asking a polite question so I don't have to say the number: what's 60 percent of the nine billion? I beg you to answer each other's questions. The 60 percent of the nine billion is the production of products that would not be sold without public support. Thanks to the public's payment of the nine billion, the manufacturer will be able to sell, and since it has 60 percent of the nine billion, so to support its production, to promote the sale of its products, we all give five billion crowns. And that's the corrupt potential that the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance put into coalition negotiations. This is the corrupt potential that KDU-ČSL and ČSSD have approached. And that's the corrupt potential we're talking about whether or not we're releasing this law for second reading. Because it's nothing but corrupt potential. When representatives of the political division named YES 2011, it is the political division of Agrofert, they said: No, we no longer want tax support, we do not want any public support, we will vote in favour of it being abolished, only it must be Mr Karel Rais's amendment, because it is ours, it must not be Miroslav Kalousek's amendment, because it is not ours. I'm really not, and I never will be. Because I was never a thief. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] Thank you. I appreciate your applause. The moment we made this possible for you, when we said good, vote in favour of Karel Rais's amendment, which will allow you not to steal the $5 billion, you freaked out and you said, "Oh, my God, $5 billion is too much!" And we've already put the five billion into coalition negotiations. And he knows why President Votava does not want Mr Kalousek's amendment to vote first, and he knows why Mr Faltýnek would like to reject Mr Kalousek's amendment at first. All of a sudden, you guys got along pretty well. And when you failed to do so, when you were removed from the procedure and should have voted on Mr Karel Rais's amendment, and you should have kept your word that you would have supported Mr Karel Rais's amendment, you were unable to do so. Well, because you couldn't steal that $5 billion, and that's a lot of money! You're the government of cheaters. You're the corrupt government. You're the government of liars. You are Members, you are Coalition Members of corruption, you are Coalition Members of liars and you are Coalition Members of fraud. I would ask you very much to hold me responsible for these words, because on the case of biofuels, I will prove to you that you lied, that you were cheating and that you were stealing. Maybe Babišův's media will write something else about it, but nobody's gonna tell you the truth, co-workers! So we don't have to discuss this point at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u5	That was Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Of course, given his double priority right, I did not bring him to order, but in this respect, I note that I have no further application for the debate. I see the chairman of the ODS club - I meant the written application. Mr President, you are unlucky, your party colleague has made factual remarks. [[Member Zbyněk Stanjura: All right.]] So, with a factual remark, Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u6	I then realized that one more thing was said here in the discussion of the bill, where the Minister of Agriculture confessed to us that he had not actually read the proposal and that the fundamental comment that the Ministry of Agriculture had on this subject and did not agree to something like this take place, so in the end the Minister of Agriculture changed his mind at the meeting of the Government and here at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like an explanation of what has become so important when it comes from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Government of a fundamental reminder of this bill, which gives quite factual reasons, and you can find it, colleagues and colleagues, in materials, factually well justifies why the Minister of Agriculture should not agree to something like this, and he finally changed his mind. [[17.20 hours]] Then there is one more thing that I must remind Mr Kalousek, too, that in his theory that only a hundred times the repeated truth will become true, he referred to one more interesting matter that a quote from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš appeared in today's media, who says that the members of the YES have unexpectedly changed their opinion for him - which I do not understand. Maybe someone will explain it to me, but I think it couldn't have been a surprise for him when he himself said that his opinion was not positive for what Mr Rais suggested, but neutral. Still, it's at least weird. I feel like there's a nasty roulette playing with people here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u7	I thank Mr Bendl for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of fact. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u8	Thank you. Mr Bendl says he does not understand why Minister Babiš was surprised that someone voted one way or another. I'll explain. These gentlemen are used to having their brandy. Volkswagen doesn't do everything like Volkswagen. He's got his škodovka, he's got his SEAT, he's got something like that. Minister Babiš bought his paratroopers in the People's Party, Minister Babiš bought his paratroopers in social democracy, so logically his right hand, President Faltýnek, then he can say, well, we didn't, our coalition partners insisted... And in a way, it's fair of President Faltýnek, because when his boss bought it, he can claim that coalition partners should bear the responsibility that the chief thief doesn't want to bear, which is the first vice-president of the government and the finance minister! That's the logic! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] That's the logic that everyone should defy and say we're not all for sale! That we can't all be bought! No matter what Faltýnek says! They're just thieves and cheaters. And today just made it clear. How many times have they lied about biofuels? Three times? Four times? They're lying! They lie and steal. But we can vote for them. Of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u9	I would ask all the Members of Parliament, of course, if they wish to raise a dispute before the mandate and immune committee, that they can use any terms, but I will not be drawn into this debate. That was the last one entered in the debate. Now is the word with the priority right of the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura, who has been duly logged in. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u10	Thank you for the floor. I spoke here on April 8th and asked many specific questions. The Minister of Agriculture has promised to answer them. I believe that they will be answered in the debate, not after the end of the debate - so that my colleagues and my colleagues can respond to those answers if necessary. In addition to the questions I asked last time - and the Minister will remember that he promised to answer them, and I say they were specific and factual - so I would ask the Minister of Agriculture to comment on what Brussels actually wants us to do. Those statements are confusing, conflicting. And it is possible that we do not have the exact conditions of what Brusel actually wants us to do. I have at my disposal from public sources statements by members of the government that 30. 6. the negotiated public support for the tax relief of biofuels ends... I'll wait a while, because then the Minister can hardly answer me if he doesn't listen to me, that's quite logical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u11	I understand, of course. I can hardly influence colleagues who are holding up the Minister at the rapporteur's table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u12	I know. I don't blame you, either, Mr. Vice-President. I'll return the question. Minister, I wonder what Brussels really wants us to do. To tell us, if possible, briefly and clearly. From public sources, from the comments of members of the government, I noted the following statements: 30. 6. We are finished with negotiated support, negotiated exemption from public aid for tax relief for biofuels. From 1. 7. that's not possible. Two. At this point, we are negotiating to extend this condition. At the same time, we know that e.g. there is no tax aid for biofuels in a neighbouring country in Germany. So my next question is: Brusel is asking us for tax support or not, respectively. do we have to have it, or is this our decision, in this case, the government and the government coalition? Last time I asked, Minister, what is the position of the Czech Republic in the discussions that are taking place about the mandatory 10% share of greenhouse gases from renewable sources. I noted, from 8 April, when we first discussed this bill in the first reading, a recommendation from the European Parliament, where it is a compromise of 7 per cent. I want to ask you how the change from 10 to 7 changes your plans. Or doesn't it really matter? I think it doesn't matter. 3 percent is quite a lot. 30 per cent of the volume initially requested is reduced. And we're constantly haunted by Brusel, virtually. Members of the government are haunted - if it isn't or it isn't, we're in danger or we're in danger. Suddenly we hear from the Minister of Agriculture, no, we're not in any danger. On the working level, I have signals that we're safe. And the Minister may be right. So I'd like to ask you before I get to any more questions in the next performances for an answer to what Brusel actually wants us to do and what we're putting ourselves in because that's what we want. So that we don't say things that we want to get through, and we're a little embarrassed to admit it - that's what Brusel wants. Remember all sorts of things in school dining rooms, etc., where it was said that this had to change in all primary and kindergarten schools, because it wanted Brusel to show that it was a fiction of the Czech Republic and not of the European Union. Thank you for your answers, Minister. In the next speeches, I will ask more questions from the debate of 8 April.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u13	I'll state the logged in. Mr Petr Kudela, President of the Chamber of Deputies and rapporteur, points out in fact. In that order, then. A colleague of Kudela does not apply, i.e. with priority rights the President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u14	[[The O.R.'s down. Many Members of Social Democracy face their benches.]] Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a fundamental contribution to what fell from Mr Kalousek's mouth on the Margo of Social Democracy. I would like to ask Mr Kalousek not to involve us in his disputes with the ANO movement or in his personal dispute with the Minister of Finance Babiš. [[with emphasis]] Social democracy has only done what it has clearly declared in advance. We said we'd vote for the original government proposal. First of all. Secondly, I fundamentally reject the innuendo of buying Members and other similar indecencies, because social democracy has a certain experience with interest in its Members. There was a time when there was a great interest in social democracy. And those of us who remember, who were sitting here at the time, could tell a story. Two of them succumbed, and you bought those two. You didn't buy any of us sitting here. We're not for sale and we're not!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u15	Thank you. Still, my colleague, with a point of fact, he has come forward - although you have priority rights, Mr President, as rapporteur as well as as as Chairman of TOP 09 - colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. [[to Mr Kalousek, who is claiming the floor]] Then... [[Member Stanjura prefers Members of Kalousek.]] Okay. A colleague of Kalousek, then a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u16	I thank my colleague Stanjur, I will pay him back, I promise. How much I wish you were right, Mr Hamáček, through your Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. We wanted nothing more than to agree here on something that is beneficial to the Czech Republic. To agree on something that your coalition partners declared to be right and beneficial, i.e. End this nonsense. I didn't say that. I was just suggesting it. But the first Vice-President of your government, Mr. Babiš, your coalition partner, the chairman of the Faltýnek Club, said, "Yes, we want to end this." Because they had the scam ready in advance, because they had the scam ready to end it, but they can't end it on the design of the ďábel Kalousek. [[repeats with emphasis]] So when the ďábel Kalousek preferred his older colleague, who had as much sense as he did, that it simply had to end, they would understand that if they supported their colleague Karel Rais, that they could not steal and that they could not support it. That way, they couldn't even pay you off, Mr. Chairman Hamáček. Because I don't believe you don't know what's going on here. This is about five billion, five billion taxpayers' money, whose spending is not required of us, which will be stolen for the benefit of the president of the YES. [[repeats with emphasis]] And I don't believe that you're so uninformed that you don't know it's for him. And caught together, hanged together. If he gets the five billion - I don't ask how much Hamáček and Jurečka have of it personally, I really don't think so, but that you traded it for something, that to change the publicly declared political view in private favor, and that's what happened here. [[Noise in the hall, ČSSD MPs and President Hakáč are standing in front of the benches.]] Here it has been publicly declared: Yes, we will end, yes, we will end tax support for biofuels. That's what's been publicly declared here. That's what Babiš said, that's what Faltýnek said, that's what Rais suggested. Then we saw on the air that this political view changed in favour of a private opinion of five billion for one oligarch. Do you really want to tell me, Mr. Chairman, that you have nothing to do with this? You guys like social democracy? I don't know what you traded it for. I don't suspect you've been bribed into your own pocket. But Babiš gave you something because he was after the $5 billion. [[Member Jandak shouts, "Trust!]] And that's called corruption. I'm asking you to think this through. Please think that you are the government of lies, fraud, and corruption. I ask you to think about committing fraud, robbery, and unprecedented acts. So you can think about it, please, an hour recess for the assembly of the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u17	Have a good evening. [[The President and Vice-President Gazdík overheard the request for a break.]] Now, with a point of fact, he's prepared - [[A Member of Kalousek from the alley screamed angryly: "No! Break!]] Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u18	I asked, Mr President, for an hour's break for a meeting of the MP's club! I don't remember any actual remarks being made after such a request. On the contrary, I wish everyone would question their conscience as to how much he steals, lies, and cheats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-006-025.u19	I apologize to President Kalousek, for I took turns holding the meeting and did not hear his request for a break. I am therefore giving an hour's break for the meeting of the TOP 09 and the starosta. I'll meet you here at 18.33. [[Am I to be called a thief? Oh, no! Oh, no! Members swing in the alleys and discuss. The microphone was turned off and then switched on after five minutes.]] I apologise, fellow Members, that I am in a pause, but your fellow Members already know about this. The Civic Democratic Party MP's club has taken a half-hour break since 18.33, so today's meeting of the House is over because negotiations have not been voted after 19 o'clock. In order not to waste any time here, I just wanted to inform you. Your club presidents know that. Thank you and have a nice evening.
