ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u1	The joint debate on points 66 and 67 of the House prints 637 and 638/ Mr Jan Klán probably has a serious comment on the rapporteur's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Notice, we have a public procurement law here. This is indeed the first anti-corruption law. First! That's the ex ante I was pointing out here yesterday. Where are all the supporters of the fight against corruption? I don't see anyone at the gallery. But nowhere. I didn't get any e-mails to say that this is just an important law. The contract register was still being dealt with. That's what was forgotten? This is what was forgotten that this is really an anti-corruption law? If this is going to be wrong, this law, it's going to be completely wrong! So let's care about it - this law, not the contract register! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u3	I thank Mr Klán, but he raised a point of fact by Mrs Jana Černochová. I believe we can get into normal traffic. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u4	Have a good night. [[- Quiet, please!]] I'm just gonna maybe follow up on what my previous speaker said. And I am very sorry that the ministerial lines behind us are very thin because yesterday or this morning we had a broad debate on the subject of the budget and we are all trying to add funds to the security and armed congregations. And if there was a problem with public procurement, it was especially in these resorts. There are real billions of taxpayers' money flowing, and I would very much like to hear the assurance from both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior on this subject that this law on public procurement will indeed allow these ministries to invest the funds that the Chamber of Deputies may propose to increase there. That's the most important thing to me. I could tell you a lot about the trouble that law will bring us at City Hall. I won't hold up, I think we can communicate with the Secretary of State. But I would like to assure the ministers of this government that this law will really improve and that what happened last year, when there were 4 billion left in the Ministry of Defence, precisely because it was not able to invest through the wrong public procurement law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová, for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and in the open debate, Mr Leo Luzar is the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, Dear Government, I will save concrete comments for the second reading of this law. What led me to debate is a speech by the Minister, who spooked us in the beginning. She scared us of everything that's going to happen to us if we don't speed it up. I would like to remind the Minister here of her opening words, with which she came to this House after the appointment of the Minister, when she took this particular law as her flagship, as where the Minister wants to present his success. The late one - I stress the late one - the inclusion of this point at the House's meeting - is somewhere squeaky. So I would like to say, through all of us, not only personally, but to all of us, that as the House, we should not get into this situation, that we are being asked to speed up the negotiation of this particularly important law. Perhaps it would be enough to appeal to committee chairmen to adjust the committee meetings that are under this law by a timetable so that deadlines can be met. But starting with asking us to cut short the negotiations, I don't consider it the right tactical move. That is why I will also vote against this proposal, even if it is not so prominent. And I suggest that we all vote so that we don't get under the pressure of simply discussing this law under some kind of stress. As regards the creation of this law, I would like to draw attention to a few things from the Minister's speech, which I consider important and can be recalled. Why the Public Procurement Act was established, as it is so far in force. I'm sure it's water on the mill for your ANO colleagues. Well, because it was stolen, because huge money was disappearing in municipalities, on the outskirts, in the state administration, wherever there were tenders. We all know the miraculous wealth of mayors, mayors, and various other representatives, and the media have been full of it for the past 25 years. This was why this law was constantly tightened up, why it got into a state where, in my view, it is quite corrupt to prevent various villains, but it has also slowed down quite significantly and complicated public procurement negotiations. [[18.00 hours]] In the Minister's speech, there were always the words 'we will speed up, we will simplify, we will make it more effective'. But the fundamental thing has completely disappeared - that this law will not be pro-corruption and that it will continue to significantly impede the misuse of public funds, the preferential treatment of friendly companies, that it will also go this way. Therefore, I would very much like the Minister to take these words as a basis in further discussions on committees, that this law will not be abused and will not bring us back 25 years, when money from the municipalities has really flowed into friendly companies. And I won't remind you that the construction contracts within the project price rose by 30, 40 per cent above this price, and suddenly after the mortgage crisis and the industrial crisis, they went below minus 40 per cent. So a 100% pillow physically existed here for the last 25 years outside the last three years four years that showed real value. I wonder, and I will then specifically ask how the design activity is settled in this law. In my opinion, this is a stumbling block where the mayors processed the projects in the drawer because they wanted the subsidy, so they had a project drawn up - quickly, so we have something ready, what if there was a subsidy? When the grant came, they pulled the project out of the drawer, but it wasn't up to date, it wasn't good, it was underestimated, but there was no time to adjust the project and get it in shape. So they competed with poor quality projects that didn't know the reality of the day. Many designers, in order to get the lowest price and win the competition, designed their peers according to Googl, and then we were surprised that we had five meters to fly there, the stairs had to be set up and similar practical issues in the context of the solution. These are things that, in my opinion, are the mark of the past time and I hope that they will be dealt with and answered. [[There's disturbing noise in the O.R.]] As far as preparation is concerned, I downloaded this bill in the material that went to the government. I don't know how far the government's been adjusting this. I confess, I have a certain shortage here. I don't know how far the government has made changes to the material. But the material that went to the government from the Ministry, I was consulted by three law firms, which deal with, among other things, the selection procedures and the organisation of these tenders for municipalities. All of these three expressed themselves quite critically on these materials. In addition, I found that two of them participated in professional supervision, work, cooperation with the Ministry of Preparation, and they pointed out to me that their comments, which were really massive and quite significant and not just from them, but from everyone present, in their opinion, were not well settled. It was just the time pressure and it was so great that the Ministry did not settle many of these comments so that those who gave them were satisfied and acknowledged the arguments that were raised. Of course, this will probably await us at second reading, when we will discuss these comments specifically and make proposals for their adjustments. But I would like to point out to the Minister that she is going to have quite a hard time in the committees to convince her that what she is presenting really corresponds to the standard that is mostly needed for public procurement to work. And now I'm stressing "to make it work" and not waking up what happened here twenty-five years ago, when self-government was simply built to spend money before it, and often it was spent so that we don't know where it ended up. So I hope that today's House is already at such an amount that it is able to pass a law that will not be pro-corruption, even though it will allow a lot of money to be spent and quickly, but it will also allow a general control of these public contracts. And as we've heard here, it's suggested that the committee be abolished, left in charge of the decision-making process. That means a lot more responsibility for the mayors, among other things. Also, if one of you was mayor or has experienced a public procurement prosecution, he knows what it means and how much more difficult it will be for them to find the internal responsibility to sign up for it and decide when it's up to them and not collective decision making. So these questions will all be raised here. I hope the secretary listens very carefully. [[The Member has quieted down and turned to the table of the plaintiff and rapporteur, where one of the Members is speaking to the Minister.]] I use a dramatic silence just like the secretary's when he wants to calm us down. It's obviously working on her, too. I believe that she will be ready for this and not alone in committee, there will be experts there who will advise on this. And I believe, House, that we will approve these laws in due time for law-making, so that we don't get into the situation 'you know citizens, we had to, because the European Union pushed us, we had to speed it up, and that's why there are those mistakes, but don't worry, in three months we will submit an amendment to this law so that we can respond to current states'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u7	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Before we continue with factual remarks, allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 17.45 until the end of the meeting of Mrs Helena Válková, from 16 to the end of the sitting day of Mrs Jana Lorencová, between 19 and 21 o'clock, Mr Janulík, Mrs Nytrová and Mr Šincl from 19 o'clock until the end of the sitting day, Mr Hájek between 19 and 21 o'clock, from 18 o'clock Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes. Mrs Markéta Wernerová, from 18 to 21 o'clock, for personal reasons. For the purpose of attending the meeting, Mr Robin Böhnisch, from 19 o'clock to the end of the meeting day, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, from 18.45 for working reasons, Mr Stanislav Berkovec and the Minister for the Environment Richard Brabec from 18.30. [[unintelligible]] We will continue, with a factual remark from Mr Ivan Adamec and then from Mr Václav Horáček. Now, Mr Adamec, he applied before you, my colleague. But they're both factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to take a hard turn against what was said here a moment ago. Saying the mayors were the ones who were corrupt, so I can't listen to that, don't be mad at me. If memory doesn't deceive me, the biggest corruption affairs were in the state sphere, and then when I name them, it's the Middle Bohemia region, if memory doesn't deceive me. So I'd be careful. Otherwise, by the way, the law doesn't apply for 25 years. The first law, the 109, which was gold against what came next, has been in effect since 1996. So let's just say it in fact. I may remember two years ago when I first came out here when I was talking about the Public Procurement Act, when I said that the last version of Nečasův' government met with standing ovation here, and we all knew that he was just an asshole who would be difficult to work in practice. And it turns out we were right. Maybe I'll go to the secretary's. You know, the pressure, fast, if we don't do it, I'd be careful. I like the idea of the bill when the principles are still the same. We're still counting a matrix of offers, advantages, and we're just picking a company. But it's just because I've been watching carefully what she's saying here that I think it's always true that the devil is hidden in detail. And I see a lot of details here, and I'd be very careful. I don't want to discuss them here right now, I think that's really a matter for committee meetings. But I would be really very careful, because even well-meaning thoughts can eventually end up being said that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I'd hate for us to get there. Otherwise, maybe for all of you. You know, even this law doesn't remove the possibility of corruption. This will not remove any law on public procurement or any similar matter or register on the publication of contracts or anything else. If the supplier and investor just agree to steal, they'll steal. [[Time warning]] But we have other organs to deal with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u9	Please, let's keep time. On the factual point, Mr Václav Horáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u10	Thank you, Mr President. A colleague of mine said most of it. I also want to strongly oppose what was said here from Mr Luzar's mouth, because it seems to me that he is probably also paid from the Reconstruction of the State, when he said "the mayors are stealing, so we must make the law." After all, the new law is especially about the pressure of mayors who want a good law to be able to award good public contracts, and it is not about who got rich, who didn't. I'm from the Liberec Region and I don't know a mayor who'd get rich and become a millionaire. And if that's the reason, I'm strongly opposed - and there's a lot of mayors of former, current county officials - that somebody was stealing something, and because we have to have a new law. That's completely misguided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u11	I thank Mr Horáček. Mr Jan Klán's point of view is now still in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u12	I would only respond through you to my colleague Horáček. I fully agree with him. I have already said here that this law is the first anti-corruption, even the first anti-corruption government, so he must function properly. If it doesn't work properly, we'll still be in the same place. So it's going to be a simple statement of nothing, and the result is going to be an absolute zero anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u13	Thank you especially for keeping time. We are now continuing the debate by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Before the counter comes, I would like to make an apology from 18:00 until the end of Mr Karel Fiedler's meeting day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u14	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for submitting this bill, which I think is the right way to award public contracts. In particular, I consider it important that it is not just a price competition. In my opinion, this was a very bad form of law that led to a number of contracts being competed with companies that were not even supposed to supply it well. The important thing is that it is possible to divide the order. It was not possible before, and it was considered to be a violation of the law. Now, if you look at the award in the private sector, most of the private companies that put the orders in, so they entered them in divided terms, and thus, of course, they got a much lower price in the result. So I think it's positive. However, I consider it important to better treat the so-called joint award. I have experience that when contracts are awarded in a tender procedure to a consortium of companies, maybe a company gets to the contract, which basically doesn't even have authorization for a certain delivery of certain buildings, she is actually covering herself with a round stamp of another company and in the result this company doesn't even appear on the construction site. So this has to be ruled out fundamentally. What is still important and what is pointed out by the companies involved in public procurement must be significantly aggravated by the purpose of recalling and shortening the appeal procedure, because if we take the situation when European funds are drawn up or the slow drawing of European funds, then in a number of cases the investor, whether he is a municipality or another investor, who competed or under the current law, was in principle afraid to exclude the contracting authority, who had the lowest price and who had doubts that he was able to fulfil the contract, but was afraid of the appeal process at the same time, because the appeal process was so long that he would not really be able to spend the subsidies that were granted with some restrictions on that short term. So I consider it important for this to be resolved in some way. However, I would like to touch on some exceptions, namely one exception, which is in this law. In my view, it is necessary to approach very carefully the proposed exceptions contained in Section 29. In particular, it is a case of the provision of legal services listed in point (a) of the exemption. (k) the proposal. The exclusion from the procurement procedure for legal services, albeit only to a defined extent, which affects, in particular, legal services, can have a significant impact on the increase in the price of the provision of legal services. It is true that the proposal does not include the total exemption of legal services as a whole, but applies in particular to the representation of a lawyer before the courts or other bodies. This activity, however, forms the cornerstone of the provision of legal services and most of the services provided take place in my opinion on this very plane. The explanatory memorandum states that the contested agenda, which should in particular be the subject of an exception, is often influenced by a specific confidential relationship between the contracting authority and the lawyer. While such a trust-based relationship can contribute positively to the outcome of the provision of legal services and to the outcome of the dispute, it is necessary to keep in mind the Law of Advocates and the Code of Ethics. Under these regulations, the lawyer is obliged to have full professionalism and quality performance regardless of the trust of the contracting authority. The exemption in the case of legal services should not be such as to completely abandon the criterion of economic advantage and suitability, including, inter alia, the lowest price criterion. The result in the field of public procurement for legal services should be the provision of a procurement procedure which takes into account the professional quality of the lawyer and his experience, which can certainly be set up, while at the same time placing such emphasis on a low price. In my opinion, complete price liberalisation is not permitted in the provision of legal services to contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act. It is true that the question of a flexible response to a dispute arises when the need for urgent provision of legal services arises, but this problem must be discussed further. For example, a solution is offered in the form of a bulking-up price for an acute provision of legal services, but then a proper selection takes place in the meantime. Of course, another solution can be considered. I think that certain restrictions on the exception to legal services will not be contrary to the Community provisions of Directive 2014/24/EU. So much for short. Otherwise, I think that such a comprehensive law, which reads, I think, 700 pages, needs to be properly discussed, and I am not too inclined to shorten the time limit for its discussion, although I am aware that the law must come into force as the Minister has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u15	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. There will now be one factual remark from Mr Michal Kučera and then the priority right of the Member representing the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond a little to my previous speaker here. I have to disagree with the demonization of the prize contest. The prize competition works, well, it can, of course, work under one or two conditions. The first condition is that the award of the contract must be properly processed, in particular technical parameters. If they are well commissioned, of course no one can shoot the price because they must value the technical assignment that is in the contract. First of all. Secondly, then, of course, the selection committee must not be afraid of the contract, which is obviously shot down and does not meet the technical specifications, to rule out. And that, of course, is possible today. Of course, the fact that this isn't happening is caused by two things. The first is that, in particular, some smaller authorities do not have enough quality workers at the construction office to prepare this technical assignment or possibly do not have enough resources to hire a company to do so. Secondly, the Commission is concerned about the exclusion of the contract, that, first of all, the criminalisation is, of course, quite a big decision-making today. That's one thing. The second is, of course, the frequent use of the appeal to the Competition Authority. Of course, that's clear. But nevertheless, I still think that a contract for a price, a competition for a price, can be functional if, of course, the parameters are set correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u17	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. I'll ask Mrs Černochová to be patient. A factual comment by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. [[Mrs Cernochová speaks from her place off the microphone.]] It's a real point. The right of priority will be yours - I have taken you as a priority right, Madame. Please, Mr Hovorka, and then with priority rights without a time limit, Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would just like to respond briefly. I actually see a problem in when it was more or less just a prize. I'll give you a specific case. In our village, the waterworks company competed as part of the operational program of the sewerage contract. It was about a range of 90 miles. Crowns. It won the consortium of three companies. In the finals, it was done by a company where we found out which has one technique and five employees and actually sets up all the work as a sub-contractor. Basically, the company that had the authorization stamp didn't even show up at the construction site. And that also makes the quality of the work look good. When we were arguing with the contracting authority that the water company wasn't good at the job, they just said, "Well, we had the opportunity either to drain the money or not. If we reject the company, he'll appeal, and by the end of the year, we won't be able to drain the funds. So that's just the problem where there's only competition for the price, and there's a long appeal procedure. I therefore draw attention to the fact that these problems occur, and therefore I appreciate the new bill that I think is going in the right direction, when there are more criteria and will not compete only at the price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u19	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now, therefore, with Mrs Jana Černochová's priority right. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I'm a little sorry, Madam Secretary, that despite my appeal, a number of ministers behind her and behind me, even though some of them took turns, and those who have been sitting here since this morning, they didn't come back here in the afternoon. I don't know, I take it almost fatally. When we discuss the draft law on public procurement, which has 444 pages, and with all due respect - the rapporteur for this law is Mr Pleticha. Nothing against Mr. Pletich, but public procurements and charges that have always been about someone who makes machinations... It was kind of a prank attempt and a little bit of a downside to the serious situation. But please, nicely, when I applied first with de facto, then with priority rights, because what Mr Hovorka said here, if I am happy for something that contains this law, it is precisely the concept of legal services that result from the European Commission regulation, because there is a huge problem in the Czech Republic, and those municipalities are not even trying to do it, or perhaps they have tried to compete with legal services in the past. We in Prague 2 compete for legal services for the third year. As I'm sure you know, every time those options that the participants in the tender, not even the participants, but those who could have participated, if the conditions had been different, there'd always be enough. Individual self-governments in the Czech Republic can really get into huge problems, where they are threatened with various damage from some neglect of something when they do not have a relevant assessment. It is certainly better to find a lawyer who specifically focuses on business obligations, business law, in particular, in specific cases relating to commercial law than when you have a convict there. Or if you have someone there who can do a great family law. We went to Prague 2 and the way that we accepted several lawyers into the employment relationship, usually students after the end of the law school. They lasted a year. Not that we don't treat them nicely, but because the one-sided job, when they're really just filing a bianco suit for permission to testify about rent, rent due, they're sending proposals for execution, so nobody even likes this after school. Maybe they think it's some way they can get some practice, but it won't last more than a year. So, as I said, if I consider something right in the bill, it is precisely the part that concerns legal services, and indeed there are a number of municipal politicians who have been working on their town halls for some time or now in the parliamentary term, and you have already met that often win competitions for legal services, which will offer you a price that looks very attractive, is really low, you call yourself "prima, no one will attack me at a price for an hour of legal service" and then you will actually find that the same law office has, unfortunately, faked you 100 hours instead of one office, which also has associates that employs, and it is bigger, and it was probably 10 crowns an hour more expensive, so it charged you 80 hours. So if you only have it built on value, you're not able to keep an eye on the clock. You don't sit behind those lawyers in those offices and check them exactly. So I see a huge problem, and here I am glad that the proposal is what it is. And I'd just like to say, the secretary here actually mentioned it at the beginning, the problem is within the time limit. I suspect that there is April 2016, when we should implement this regulation. So we've got time, we've got a lot of time, I'll be happy to have that deadline extended and we'll have a wider discussion, but we don't have much time, and really what I said here in my first speech, please, let's ask the committees in which the law will be, let's ask the relevant ministers what the law will bring them positive in particular in their sector. And let us be prepared for the fact that everything may not be positive, that perhaps the Minister of Defence will tell us that, on the contrary, this bill can make the situation even worse in this complex acquisition process that we are already dealing with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u21	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Now one more factual remark from Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then from Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. I've only had a short time. Of course, legal services are not only competing with municipalities and cities, but it also requires a faculty hospital as a contribution organization of the Ministry of Health or health insurance. And believe me, I've had experience of the fact that there were either no competitions in a number of cases, or they were very strange. And the experience with Shaft & Partners in Homolka or Bulovka, those were sums that simply pulled quite a lot of money out of those hospitals. If they were properly competitive, I think the price could have been somewhere else. So not only do cities and municipalities compete, but they also compete with large contribution organizations, ministries and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u23	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. We are now continuing the debate by Mr Farský and a colleague Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, we really have one of the most important standards for the whole parliamentary term, but at least next year, because it is a standard that divides success from failure in the finals, and it would be good if we could agree here a standard that will be... The really successful ones will be the good ones and not the familiar ones and the subtly informed ones. It's up to us, it's not only in this law, but I still think it's gonna be a piece of work in the committees, which is why I wouldn't be leaning towards shortening the deadline, even by 10 days. It is not possible to catch up on the delay that is absolutely essential here by not pursuing this law in the House. We are the legislative part, we have the responsibility of leaving the House, and we cannot say that if we have known since 2004 that we must adopt the law, we will now accept it in a time frame that always brings problems and mistakes. And making mistakes in this law is really simple, but very, very bad. [[18.30 hours]] From the outset - and it was discussed in the Public Procurement Act in the current version of the 2006 Act with the last big amendment in 2012, so-called transparent, that perhaps it brought the obligation that it had to compete for the price. It's not true. It's not a law issue. This is because individual subsidy schemes have started to be described as having to compete directly on the price, on their terms, and also in how the competition authority decides, because any other criterion you have applied has resulted in the competition being contested, and when it has already been challenged, it has ended up with the competition authority for months, often for years. So how did the contracting authorities handle it? They competed for the prize because it's the most comfortable, but it's not the law. The law has not changed in this section since 2006 and § 78 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Since then, it has kept saying that the most advantageous tender is to be selected, and until point (b) says: the lowest price. Since 2006, without change, however, this change has taken place, so it cannot be the law. That's why saying we're gonna fix it with the law is quite limping. I'd also join you when it sounds like it's not always bad to compete for a prize. I was mayor for eight years, we spent about half a billion public funds on investment over that time, and over that time we had a problem with a million-dollar event and we competed most of it at a price. But competing for the price means that you have to have a well-prepared project up to details such as the type of drawers, the doorknobs on the windows, because if you don't do it, of course the supplier will offer you the cheapest, and anything you want better, so he will give you for more work and higher costs. So then you transfer work to project preparation, and then you can't save on using high-quality building supervision, using great engineering. And then you can get to that, and I'll just say the numbers last year, that in Semily, the estimated value of the competing contracts was 40 million, 36 million, and the final price after counting all the more and less work 33 million. It's okay. It's more difficult than just putting out a contract, getting offered, and then arguing that we have some reserves of 20, 30, 50 percent of possible multi-work, and that order to keep changing. It is possible, for some types of contracts even competing for the price is very advantageous, logical, but it has far greater requirements for the contracting authority. And unfortunately, many contracting authorities did not survive this challenge, so the fight against competition on the prize developed here and it was said that it was perhaps the law. It wasn't, and the law won't solve it either. As regards the next moment where this law should help, it should lead to an acceleration of the selection procedure. That is true, and it will lead to the way we read it - but we have to say it's always worth something. And so if I increase the limit for simplified sublime management from 10 million to 50 million, we have to say, do we want to spend fast or efficiently? And let's choose. If we shorten the time limits that the precautionary measures are completely removed, that the limits of two and six million remain, even if, according to the approved 2012 amendment, they should have even been in the limits of one and one million from next year, and not two and six million, the question is whether it is worth it. If we want to invest effectively, if we want to invest effectively with the funds we collect on taxes or what we get from the European Union, which, in turn, is nothing more than our transferred money, whether we are trying to spend as quickly as possible or as best we can. And I'm afraid there's a few moments in this law where we're going to spend it as quickly as possible, and maybe in the first phase it's going to be accepted as very positive, that suddenly the money is going to fly as fast as it's never been spent lately, but it's also going to be associated with a lot of trouble. And he's making an opportunity for a thief in the finals. I don't think it's gonna be a problem that doesn't show up because it's offered, and that's what I think's gonna happen. The release of subcontractors, what we talked about, is that we want to know who's actually doing the job. The obligation to submit a list of subcontractors is no longer in the law. It'll be faster, but will it help us? The very reduction in the limits that we have raised here to two and six million out of one and three million has led, and this is statistically supported, to the fact that more small and medium-sized enterprises have been involved, that they have come to these contracts because they have had information about them because they have had the strength and that they have competed against them. The moment I lift the deadline for simplified sublimation proceedings from 10 to 50 million, the idea that someone will write a $50 million construction contract, say, a small multi-functional cultural object where there will be some technology in which there will be work for plumbers, tiles, carpenters, masons, electricians and specialized professions, if we have a lighting system, a sound system, maybe a cinema hall, so the idea that someone can make a good offer in 20 days for such a big event - who can do it? Either the one who knew about it in advance, and he could have prepared himself, or someone who would have shot it from the side, but then he'd have to put some kind of risk premium on it. Is that how we want to spend public funds? I don't agree with it, that's why I'm pointing it out here. And I don't think it's a good idea for us to move public funds with such modifications to the Public Procurement Act, especially to those big companies that then use small suppliers like those subcontractors who usually don't get much profit because they stay with primary competitors. And that doesn't seem right to me, and that's why I'm going to propose some changes. To be specific. I think there should be information on small-scale contracts as well. It should not just be that when the contract is concluded, the contract is published, but it should be known in advance that such a contract is going on and on. We say small-scale contracts, but those are contracts for buildings up to six million crowns. And at least six million isn't a small amount to me. Yet we will not know about such orders at all. It's $2 million in services. They will also basically be removed and you will not be able to get information about them under the law. For those contracts of importance and greatness, I miss the fact that there is a preliminary announcement about them. We can say that it stalled, that it had to hang out for 30 days, but perhaps we have a responsibility to the finances that we are dealing with, and if we weren't able to say 30 days in advance that I'm going to invest 100 million, then we shouldn't be managing the money at all because it's not our place. Then there are technical things that look great at first sight, but in my opinion they have a big problem. Paragraph 257 states that if the competition authority does not make a decision within 60 days in more difficult cases, the contract may be concluded and the entire administrative procedure is cancelled, which at first sight is great, because it will not delay the ÚOHS's being there for years, but in 60 days either the decision is made or the contract is concluded and the competition is said to be in order. But logically, what will result? Small orders will be checked, which can be checked in 60 days, but billions of contracts, which will not even be put into them for safety, because they will know that they will not be closed in 60 days. Is that what we want? At first glance, good measures, but logically, will result in large orders not being controlled. Similarly, the exclusion of an unsuccessful applicant looks tempting. But how will it work in practice? How can I afford, as mayor, to rule out a firm that isn't finally convicted, but with which I got into some conflict, which is always an interpretation of two sides? [[18.40 hours]] How much guilt will it have to be so that I can rule her out? Where are the firm criteria? And if the contracting authorities aren't gonna compete for anything but a prize today, we think that suddenly they're gonna be brave here and they're gonna vote out companies. I think after the first, maximum, second-loss dispute, when the firm sues the contracting authority for a loss of profit, they'll stop. And the measure may help that the law here will pass through the House relatively quickly and without any difficulty, but it will not actually be applicable. I'm not alone in my comments. Minister Dienstbier is not here, so the comments he made on the government proposal, here I will read for him because I think they are essential and that they cannot be overlooked. They are from 20 October this year, when he himself writes as a representative of the Government Council for the Coordination of Combating Corruption, he applies the following opinion on the bill: One. The draft law on public procurement does not meet the general requirements for law-making laid down by the legislative rules of the Government, according to which it is necessary, among other things. ensure that the legislation is designed clearly and formulated in a clear, understandable, linguistic and stylistic manner. The proposed structure of the law is unclear and the text is not easily understood, nor does the text of the specific part of the explanatory memorandum contribute to clarity in many cases. Some of the provisions are more appropriate in the current regulation. It is complicated and very vaguely written e.g. the proposed adjustments to the qualifications and technical conditions of the procurement documents and procurement terms of the mixed contracts, general exceptions or sectoral procurement contracts. In view of the objectives of the new regulation, among which is the strengthening of clarity, clarity and accessibility of contracts to small and medium-sized suppliers, complicated passages concerning the responsibilities and qualifications of applicants are rather counterproductive. - That's a signed opinion of a member of the government. There are seven of these points. I won't read them all, I appreciate your time. I'll just tell you what the others are in. It recalls that the law lacks the definition of the term used, which the law introduces. It also recalls that the rules on small-scale public procurement are overly relaxed and that, if the high limits of 2 and 6 million have been left, they should also be brought to the conclusion that those contracts which are below this limit should be informed in some way. He's going back to the preliminaries. It mentions the missing list of subcontractors. There is no justification for the contract. It is referred to the fact that the law on internal control in public administration is missing and it is difficult to discuss this without it. What I would say is that the government has retreated from the 50 percent possible multi-work at its meeting and has returned to the 30% that they are. For this reason, it was also said to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Dienstbier, that if this is not regulated, it is not recommended to approve the law. Of course, at least the paragraph I read couldn't have been modified, because the law would have to be rewritten. Finally, I would like to propose that this law should also be discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u25	Thank you, Mr Farský. Now Mr Michal Kučera's factual remark and then Mr Grospič's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u26	Thank you for the floor. I join much in what my colleague Farský said here. However, I would like to add one more thing, and that is what this competition as such is deformed by. It's a grant policy, virtually. grant titles and their terms and conditions. I am not talking about, of course, the conditions that are with European funds, but with national subsidies. And we are making the situation even worse for ourselves. Instead of going through a budget increase to municipalities through a budget determination of taxes, we are going through special subsidies, which, of course, force us to always fit the contract with the subsidy. Unfortunately, we have enough of these examples during this parliamentary term and unfortunately from this government. It's bigger, it's smaller. From the smaller ones - we discussed school law here and discussed kindergarten schools and support for municipalities for the construction of kindergarten schools. So, of course, the aid will not be by increasing the budgetary determination of taxes. This, by the way, was rejected by coalition MPs, a two-billion-dollar increase in the budgetary determination of taxes. But there will be special subsidies. That means the village will have to fit into the special grant, the terms and conditions, etc. This means that the municipality will not be able to decide on its own how it wants to deal with the situation, but it will have to enter into the subsidy conditions. That means, I would say here - less subsidies and more money to municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u27	I thank Mr Kučer. Now, Mr Stanislav Grospič, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. Mr. Grospič? He's ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. To tell you the truth, I have mixed feelings about the proposed bill. I feel a little bit that we are pouring out a tub, because today this Chamber of Deputies has approved a register of contracts, which brings quite a lot of responsibilities in relation to the municipalities, even though it is in some way that small municipalities want to do the trick. And now we have a fairly large code of the bill on public procurement. I would like to say that I perceive the fact very really that the existing law on public procurement No. 137/2006 Sb., published in full under No. 40/2015, it has been amended 21 times in total, which is quite a respectable number during the period 2006 to 2015, and of course does not contribute in any way to the orientation of municipalities, especially small municipalities where no one is released. And, of course, he's recording to big companies or companies that focus on the fact that he actually makes a living on a custom basis by preparing, processing and proposing these public contracts for municipalities. I think for myself that the law has a number of things and a number of moments, and my previous speakers here have said that it would be good to have a debate that would be good to argue about. Only about the fact of the selection committees and the position of the mayor of the municipality, but also about the volume of financial orders and the own mechanism. However, I think - and I would like to object to this, so that this code is discussed within a short period of time, i.e. to reduce it to 30 days, because I have a feeling that we would do what we did, for example, in other codes that were relatively comprehensive. This codex, I just want to remind you, has 278 paragraphs, including the explanatory note and the tables presented are contained on 676 pages, and this in itself takes some time: reading, getting acquainted with it, analytics and, of course, asking questions and answers to the relevant ministry, or even. Legislative Councils of the Government or someone else who will be involved in this matter. And, of course, this will require and will certainly and logically follow the expression of a number of civic activities and, of course, links between municipalities. I don't mean just the Union of Cities and Cities right now. So, in this context, I think that, on the contrary, for this bill, the deadline should be extended to 90 days, for example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u29	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. Now, Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Chvojka, will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, let me also say a few words about this bill. First of all, as the Minister said, when he first tells us: "A completely new law is prepared, what has been so far, do not actually count, because everything that is there is new, it is quite complicated." One of my colleagues said there were about 700 pages of text. He will say that in one sentence, and in another sentence he will say: "But you will have very little time to do it, because if we do not approve, the European Union will punish us by not giving a eurodoration." My experience is that when it is told to the European Commission that the law in question, which applies certain regulations of the European Union or European legislation, is in the legislative process, then nowhere in Europe, at least I have not heard that any country was sanctioned at a time when the law is already being discussed by individual European Union MPs. I have not heard of a single case where a law which applies European provisions would only sanction countries so far as to take all funds away from them. That's nonsense. And I don't think we deserve this threat. On the contrary, we deserve more time for discussion, because if the Minister feels that such a complicated law will be discussed by the committees in, like, two hours of debate, without being able to ask and simply verify again whether what is said is true, then we simply sew something with a hot needle again, and according to my deep conviction it will turn out again. The old sentence will apply: "We thought well, but it worked out as always. " If we are really going to push and be threatened that the European Union won't give us the euro, if it doesn't have it by 1 April, I don't believe it, nor do I believe that the Minister believes it. Even if the 18th, as the secretary here calls me, or 19 a.m. - absolutely not. I don't think Europe is that stupid in this regard. The law, and she said it here, brings a number of details where the devil's hoove will be buried. When I think of what the Minister herself said that Czech business entities would have different conditions in their interest in applying for a public contract than foreign entities. I think it's gonna be a big deal for lawyers to talk about the fact that if someone is an Austrian company, they won't have to show their own structure completely, they just have to ask the company's headquarters to tell them who the owner is, whereas the Czech subject will have to strip naked. Is this the support of the Czech business and business sector? All right, so be it. But I think we should definitely give it some debate, not one sentence, that Europe will go through this way and Europe doesn't agree with it, so at least for our companies here, we will step up to support all those registered abroad. I am very proud to submit this paragraph to a detailed discussion. So is exclusion for past misconduct. If anyone ever made a mistake, he was probably punished for it somehow, because otherwise it wouldn't have been a mistake. The only way to prove a mistake is that he was either convicted or fined and so on. But if he's been convicted and fined, I don't know if we can rule him out from applying to the competition. Maybe it'll come in handy in the selection process. My colleague Farský said that the material should go to the constitutional law committee, and I very much intercede for that, because I think this is going to be on the edge somewhere. More work. Also, an area that we have been quite discussing, when the government majority has pushed through that we have 50 percent of possible multi-work in the existing law. I think that's an absolute nonsense that we can't let go any further, and we're supposed to go down the road, and we as citizens' democrats have said that here, netting more work and less work, because the often-induced work saves again somewhere else. We are deeply convinced that up to 20 per cent, if the selection procedure is well prepared, we will fit in if more work and less work are included as a principle to be followed and not 30 per cent. We're running away again. It's pointless, completely unnecessary. And I can say this from my own experience as a regional governor in Central Bohemia. We've had thousands of jobs, but we've had about two or three more jobs in eight years, and you can check it out. Although it has always been a way to get out of some of the rules that the price will betray, and then comes with more work because they are objective and logical. I beg all my fellow Members to think about this and push more work down, but to objectify it by saving really more work somewhere else. Purpose appeal. This was and is on the Czech custom market, if you want, really common practice may often complicate life for a legitimate winner by simply attacking the competition authority. But it doesn't take 60 days or 180 days, it sometimes takes years. I don't know if the numbers are correct, but I know that we were in the tens of billions of crowns of contracts not decided definitively, for which public administration across the Czech Republic had allocated funds, investments were prepared, projects were prepared and decisions were made at the ÚOHS and really very, very long time for whether the contract was okay or not. So some kind of limit that would at least limit these practices, because I know we can't completely eliminate it from the market. If we don't put a deadline there, the practice of this type will continue, and it will delay and complicate so that all the participants in the selection process who have to allocate labour, technology and the like, and when I complicate it, it means that the person who has a chance to win the contract doesn't make it for the money, gets blackmailed in this way or goes to the person who is the second, third, fourth, fifth blackmailer and tries to make a deal. I'd like us to think about a limit. If it's 60 days right, or if it's 90, I don't think it's quite that crucial, but some ceiling and some kind of behavior should be consulted, because there's a relatively large amount of money freezing in the public administration, which is intended for investment, that money could serve, it could carry jobs and could help the Czech economy, but it's not used, and it's quite safely wrong. [[19.00 hours]] In principle, I'll seem to turn around, but when I was in the United States for the first time, it's about 20 years ago, in a town called Bellevue, about 70 or 80,000 people, and I asked the local mayor how they do public contracts, so he said to me, "Here's Johny doing the public contracts. And I was like, okay, so Johny's probably the head of the investment. And who picks them out, the contracts? How do you build a commission and all that? And he looked at me and said, "What commission?" Johny's doing the job. I say, "Wait, I don't understand." He says, "Well, he's doing it, because then when anything happens, because we can count back on those contracts, how much it costs, and when it comes to any mischief, Johny is responsible for causing it, and he ends up being locked up, and at the same time Johny knows that there are a number of people who would like to take his place. I'm not calling for an American order-making system so I can't do that here. I'm just calling to simplify the selection process as much as possible so that it can be better controlled. The more we complicate it, the more environment we create for backstage agreements. The simpler it will be, the more transparent I can say from the point of view of the number of pages described, because the better for us and for the more transparent procurement process in the selection procedure. What my colleague Farský said here, I have to sign the competition for the prize. I often hear that the law says that it is necessary and that it is necessary to compete for the price. But he's not exactly telling the law. They say that the conditions that individual ministries refer to in individual grant titles, and then everyone shakes their heads when they say that it doesn't pay, that the cheapest is the best. We often bring the cheapest from China, and in 14 days, we simply throw it away when I say a little bit of exaggeration, and it doesn't bring any work to our people. I think that we should simply know that if we want to compete at all prices, we often go to those Taiwanese and Chinese products, and that we should have the courage to do the grant titles that are being written, let them be governed by the Public Procurement Act. And there is already the responsibility of the contracting authority, which rules apply to one or the contract or not, and let them answer it and possibly justify it. Let the administrators of individual grant titles not simplify it in this way, because it makes the situation more complicated than it simplifies. The better law, the more sophisticated law will still need people working with it, and the human factor cannot be removed at all ever. That's why it's naive and stupid to think that we're going to eliminate the Public Procurement Act. But we can limit it. And I am deeply convinced that if we go more along the way of simplification, less exceptions, less looking for differences, more responsibility to the contracting authority, that this is a better way than when we are here to be a large number of wise minds thinking that they will solve everything for those contracting entities. It's not, it's not, it's not, and it can't work. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to meeting you at least once at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because I cannot imagine that we would be able to resolve such material at one meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u31	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Before we continue, I will make further apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Until the end of the day, Mrs Milada Halíková, Mr Josef Zahradníček, Mr Antonín Seďa, Vice-President Jan Bartošek, Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, Mrs Pavla Golasowská and Member Petr Adam apologizes. We continue with Mr Michal Kučera's factual remark, then with priority rights, the President of ODS. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u32	Thanks for the word. I'm more or less aware of the call for speeding up this amendment of the law. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, how he's obviously suffering from this -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u33	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I remind you that you have approved the majority negotiations after 19 o'clock, so respect that even after 19 o'clock it is necessary for those who do not discuss the subject of public procurement to transfer their discussions into the foyer and those who are interested in this important law to be able to make their comments, to put their proposals in order. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u34	I'm sorry, then, Madam Secretary, who is clearly suffering behind this table of his. However, I would like to say that if we want to discuss this law quickly, one crucial thing will decide about its speed, and that is the quality of this amendment. If the quality is good enough that everything will actually take place quickly in the committees, I think it will go smoothly with the House. However, the arguments that are raised here, and not only of course the arguments, but the whole amendment requires a very thorough discussion in the committees. Everyone realizes how serious this amendment is. I want to point out that the call for the speed we've heard here several times - so we've been fixing one of these novels here today. Please remember the amendment to the Act on Acceleration of Road Construction, when sometime a year and a half ago, the Minister of Transport stood here and cried: "Let us quickly approve this amendment so that we can buy out the land more quickly. If you don't approve it quickly, we can expect problems." And the House interrogated him, approved it very quickly, and today, not even after two years, we had to fix it. So I believe it won't be a problem here in this law. And I believe that we will discuss it thoroughly and that we will also discuss it in the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u35	Thank you. I'm asking the secretary if he wants priority rights, or if it's a matter of fact. [[Favorite law.]] Well, then, after the chairman of the club. [[Really.]] Seriously. So, please, the Madam Secretary's point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to comment on the speed. You know, I'd expect some material comments. I politely asked the House to shorten basically from 60 to 50 days. If that doesn't happen, there's nothing we can do, we're moving on. You all knew that the European directive was pushing us. You all knew it at least when I got into office and I had to go through a novel that I didn't agree to. And you all knew it here. The guidelines are just threatening us. And if Mr Bendl here says that he has not yet met, that there would be a European Commission procedure if the implementation of the European directive is not complied with. This may have been the case before when you were still in Central Bohemia, Mr President. However, we now have so-called ex ante consistency for the 2014 to 2020 programming period. This is the consistency for drawing European funds. However, I would like to ask you, if I, as an executive, as a constitutional official and as your executive, can ask if, if we can take these substantive comments. If you don't approve the 50 days, okay, we're gonna keep going, we're gonna go normally, nothing's going on. Just please, I think that even this item, which is now in the evening, was promised to me that it was a fixed item after the state budget. It didn't happen. So I just want to say that time isn't just pushing you, it's pushing us all. The European directive, April 18, I cannot afford to say anything other than to ask you to try and extend the law with common forces. If it is of poor quality, we will be very happy to explain it all to you on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u37	Thank you, Minister. One more point in fact, Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would like to point out to the Minister that the Minister is responsible for the deadline for submitting this amendment, namely you. We did not request this term as the House, you are responsible for this term. I want to point out that it's been two years since the election. If there have been any changes in the ministerial post, it is purely the coalition's responsibility. In any case, I can say that if the Secretary of State instructs the House how to act, how to discuss this law, I do not think it will be more likely to contribute to the speed of negotiation of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u39	Mr Laudát's point of fact. Then Madam Secretary. Madam Secretary first. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u40	I would just like to point out to the honourable Member, through Mr President, that this is not a novel. This is a new law on public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u41	Thank you. Now, Mr. František Laudát. E-mail comes first, Mr. Ambassador, you know this well according to the Rules of Procedure. [[A Member reporting from the diaper.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u42	Thank you for the floor. I will just briefly mention in that time that the government was, if I am not mistaken, appointed some 19 January 2014. It began to rule either at the end of March or at the beginning of April 2014. I initiated a seminar on the floor of the Economic Committee. That's where Secretary Jourová came in. I'd ask the socans to listen. [[To the group of Members discussing on the left.]] It was said that by the end of June 2014, the Minister promised that he would come with a technical amendment and that by the end of the year he would have drawn up a new law that would transpose the European directive, that he would assume that in January 2015 at the latest, and that he was keeping a sufficient time reserve there, he would be here. She's the same secretary, because she's having trouble guessing time. You yourself must have noticed that a few days before the assassination in Paris, she assured the Belgičan that it was good to work with terrorists and that some could return to normal life after returning from the Islamic state. That's the same euro minister. So, with all due respect, Madam Secretary, if you're here - I know now that you're already in time for implementation. You can thank your predecessor and the YES movement for putting such a shooter there in front of you. It was the big face of the YES movement. I know it's not your fault, but that's reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u43	That was Mr. František Laudát. Mr Ivan Gabal is now going on, still making factual remarks. And then the chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u44	I just briefly thank you for the floor, dear colleague, Madam Secretary. For the foreman. I think the Islamic State has the opposite effect on our defenses than the Public Procurement Act. But I just wanted to ask the Minister, for 22 years in the business, so now if we're trying to increase our defensive spending, I'm gonna have to process through the legislation. And I'd just like to intercede to listen to rational comments from people who are experienced here. Then we will discuss it in the defence committee, as in particular, from this point of view. So I would also like to add to the fact that if you need more time, you need to stay calm about it, but put that time into it. I think that the European Commission will no longer have us on time when we are discussing this. But we have to build something that we can equip the state with in a way that is adequate to its legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u45	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we will continue with the priority right of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS. And then a duly registered Member, Jan Chvojka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u46	Thank you for the floor. First I'll respond to the secretary's last performance and then I'll do it first. Madam Secretary, the fact that we're discussing this now is a matter for you at the Coalition Council. Unfortunately, the government coalition in the Chamber of Deputies has a majority. I don't like it, but I respect it. So if you don't feel the right time to negotiate, I agree with you. If it is true, I think it is too ambitious to say that this law is a priority of the Czech Republic, then I would expect a prime minister or at least one vice-premier or at least a majority of the government here, which is to commend the ministers present and to criticize absent ministers. There's nobody here. I said in a different context yesterday and asked the government as a whole and individual members of the government to stop worrying about Brussels. How many times have we heard in this parliamentary term: If you do not approve, we will be stopped by money. What do our European colleagues tell us now? We don't think it's about quotas, we'll stop your money! Do we hear a strong voice, for example, in the Chamber of Deputies, that there is no legal basis for this? Very often, the Institute is used to stop drawing subsidies for political pressure. Both in the last parliamentary term and in this parliamentary term. I know something about it as a former government MP. When something did not like, both the Czech Republic and suddenly was a problem, European money was stopped. Is it really the key concern of the European Commission today if we will have this new law on 1 April rather than a novel? Is that true? If you look into the press, the underlined lines are transpositional, if I understand it. Isn't that right? I didn't count, but by guessing, maybe the secretary would know, it's about 75 percent. I don't know what those tens of thousands of eyes were doing when they copied 75 percent and produced three and a half thousand comments. Madam Secretary probably said it was a good law. But for me, it's a sign that the law wasn't prepared well. Three and a half thousand comments are not normal. Even though it's actually a de facto almost pure transposition. The fact that it went to the government with 60 unfinished comments is quite unusual. But your predecessor, Kamil Jankovský, was on the same page with the novel in 2011. I don't know exactly how many were there, I think there were a thousand comments in the commentary proceedings, so he had one third against you, but there were a lot of them, too, and so we've been dealing with it for a long time, and we didn't quite make it when we said it. But it's interesting that the same ones who said "tighten up, tighten up, tighten up" are silent today. Same guys. I always say, someone may be hypercritical or nice to politicians, but he should treat everyone the same and not choose according to his political sympathy. I don't like him, so I'm gonna criticize him head-on, but when my favorite does it, it's actually okay. I don't know, Madam Secretary is calling for a substantive debate, and I'm in. But do we really think that when we did the state budget here four o'clock in the morning, from 14.30 to 19.30 another five hours, that means we've had nine hours of negotiations, that we're able to really lead to such an important law? [[debate]] I agree it's important. I do not think it is the priority of the Czech Republic, but it is important. So after nine and a half hours, we're able to have a really constructive, factual debate here? Or maybe it'll be a series of monologues, that every one of those who have prepared it responsibly, the club correspondents and the people who are in charge of it actually unfold here, the monologues, because when they've already done the job, it's a shame not to say it, but we're not able to respond to each other, now I don't mean a series of factual comments that we're going to trump each other, who's going to give the best, funniest word, but actually to the bill. I don't think so. That is why I voted against the extension of that period. And I always say it's extremely inappropriate in the middle, I think, because then the concentration of everyone here is dropping. And when I look in the government desks, there are three of them today. At this point, there are three ministers, there were five of them just now, it's fluctuating between three or two or five. That doesn't fit the meaning of the law, in fact. The first thing I would like to know is that it has nothing to do with the specific text of the new law, but how the system works in public procurement in the Czech Republic. We have here the Office for the Protection of Competition, whose opinions are useless when drawing European money. Rightfully, mayors, providers, contracting authorities complain that they have paper in their hand. If someone turned to the UOHS, the UOHS decided everything was okay, then the audit unit came in, nothing pays. This is a key problem that we should solve. [[19.20 hours]] I understand that it was no longer possible in the last term, that the problem started some other time, but we are in a new programming period and my first question is: Do we have this resolved, or will each contracting entity suffer or fear that two controls will come, each of which has different authority? One according to Czech law and says everything okay and another says: although some UOHS has decided it, but we will correct you, you will return money, subtitles. Very often it is also used in municipal policy - our mayor erred according to the audit unit, what is behind it? The city will suffer. At the same time, the mayor has a paper from the Czech government body, which is even subject, I think, to the new Civil Service Act, which we also had to accept in order to draw money. It was also an ex ante condition for us to be able to draw at all. And one day, we should say enough. The 40.5 billion we have paid into the European budget are in our budget. What are our terms? Nothing! We get the number, we approve it here, because there's nothing else we can do, and we send it, and then we get the money back under very difficult conditions. It's bureaucratic. But that's a problem we should solve together. So either if it's a public contract and there's European money, it doesn't have the authority to save it, let there be one, but let there be no two, and there are different results. That's the worst of it, the uncertainty. And then it doesn't matter what the law is, whether it's better or worse when uncertainty exists. One of the ex antes - I prefer to say conditions rather than conformity, it is such a complicated word, was the preparation or approval of the EIA Act. We've been talking about this here and again, colleagues working on the Economic Committee, we've talked about it with the state budget. We also heard that if we didn't approve, we wouldn't be able to draw. I don't think it has any legal basis either, if they're deliberately making it difficult for us to keep as much money as possible in Brussels. I really think that's intent. And the situation today looks like we're exactly where we didn't want to be. We have passed the law, and because of the law, we cannot - we can draw, but we cannot physically, because we have to fulfil new obligations and what we had set up does not apply anymore. Won't it be much like this law? I don't know. We do not know how the legislative process will end. I expect dozens of amendments here and in the Senate. It's not a crucial time for me. If we make it to April 1st, it's good if we don't make it and there's a better law, nothing happens from my point of view. I think that Brusel, too, will have other concerns than all the transpositions, to check how individual countries carry out implementation and transposition. An important issue that is rightly discussed is an increase in volume or price - 20 %, 30 %, 50 %. Here we have again invented the Czech specialty, and it was not during this government, so it is not the Minister's fault that only more work is being added up. So you're going to compete for a million, because of changes in the budget, the resulting price is 900 thousand, you're 100 thousand. Saved, but because the changes were, for example, 400,000 - you bought cheaper tiles or cheaper bricks or cheaper anything and you broke the law and you're in an impossible situation as a contracting entity. So I understand the percentage of the competitive price. That makes sense. Then let's talk about the percentage. And 50 percent is just a lot to compete with, because then the project was really miserablely prepared. And it's about reconstruction, there's the biggest problem in the moment of some reconstruction, that there's some unexpected work going on, something pops up, we all know it. But if it goes on, it's actually just the so-called ones. more work, while it can only be a replacement of material, I buy a cheaper computer than it was in the project, and so on, so it's illogical, and then the 20 percent just isn't enough that would be enough. And that's in our hands again. No one can convince me that this fiction, that less work doesn't count against more work, that we made up ourselves. If not, I would like to know what EU directive it is, and if it is, I would ask the Czech Government to try to change it because it has no logic. That's not how any private investor goes, because I can really make the construction more expensive because I'm gonna say I'm not doing it. We've seen this before. When we were doing the first European project, we put something cheaper in there, and immediately there was an incomparable expense. Chop, share of European money down, share of city money up! The construction as a whole was cheaper than the competitive price. Yet we were called. punished for violating the rules on the drawing of European money. Totally illogical. And we should remove it, we should learn from the last programming period, because we are de facto just beginning to draw on it. Next year will actually be the first year, as was the first time, as I said, 2009 was the real first year of drawing in the previous programming period. I think that's more important than a specific bill. What's important is references. For me, it is important that references are the evaluation criterion. After all, Mr Mayor, fellow Member of Farský, we know the case where suppliers repeatedly flatten our prices, win public contracts and then are not willing to perform warranty repairs because they say: this is not a guarantee correction. And all you have to do is do it at your own expense, or sue the firm for the money you spent on repair, but in the meantime, the company will do the exact same thing to you, and you're forced to do the job again. And that's wrong. I would understand if the weight of the reference criteria were limited from above so that it could not prevail. Like 80 percent reference, 20 percent price. I don't think that's good, because there really is room for speculation and subjective evaluation. But references are subjective evaluations. And again, if a private investor wants to build something from the garage through a family house to something else, he doesn't just ask for an offer price, but he asks what you've already built, he goes there, asks if the company has kept up with the price, whether there have been any warranty defects after all these years, or not, and so he chooses accordingly. It's true that there's a myth here that we have to compete for the prize these days. Don't be. But especially officials have a legitimate concern because they criminalise public procurement decisions. Politicians at all levels contribute to this. Instead of using political tools to fight and say maybe they didn't do it right, we would have done it better, we would have done it better, the city, the county or the state, so they filed criminal charges with the fact that there is some suspicious, there was an extra price, there was an amendment. It costs the police and then it leads to the alibis - the easiest thing is to compete for the prize, because no one can be blamed for possibly preferring someone. But a price without quality has no meaning. I think they know this - maybe not in elementary school, but certainly in high school - the price/performance ratio is a standard thing, and it is judged by each of us in private life when he buys objects of daily consumption, not only when they make big investments. If we don't do it with big investments, the consequences will catch up with us in a few years. Someone gives you a ten-year warranty, but then we have to ask after ten years if it lasted, and if it didn't, if warranty repairs were actually made to the supplier's account or to the contractor's account. So my next question is - and I don't even need an answer today, I need that answer to be heard until we finally pass the law - as more work, less work and what references will be considered, because the fact that someone will deliver you - such a favorite "show that in the last five years you have done three orders in a similar business subject of more than 30 million" does not tell you anything about how the contract took place and whether or not the contracting entity was serious and whether it fulfilled its obligations. Perhaps in my first speech on this bill, the Minister said that they removed 60 comments either from the government or from the government. I want to ask you how. Now I don't mean specifically. You accepted them, or as it happens very often in a commentary procedure - not accepted, not accepted, because this is also a settlement. So if you accepted them, or you accepted them from a political level, that means ministers, they did so that the ministers withdrew the objections and put the Minister to the truth that they were convinced by the government that their authorities were wrong. Because it is also true that very often the legal departments of individual ministries try to find out which of them will write it better and who will read it more carefully and who will find the missing semicolon or comma there. Such informal competition between the legal services has obviously taken place and I believe that it is also taking place at this time, because it is important. And it was the experience of the previous discussion, when, fortunately, the atmosphere really changed - who was here in 2011 and gave a rational proposal, that he was immediately publicly labeled a corrupter. [[19.30 hours]] There was no reasonable, factual debate because it was the only truth, and who said that the truth wasn't the only one, and suggested some sensible changes, was automatically publicly labeled corrupter. And no one wants to sit in that Chamber of Deputies with a sticker like that. And even though many knew that there were problems and that it would bring problems to the app, we just waited for the app to tell us the truth. Today, I believe that the atmosphere is different, that the debate in the committees will be really substantive and that those activists who, let's just say, are also justifiably interested in this will think about the proposals and the justifications that individual Members will give up and will not immediately say: well, if you are not in favour of this, then he is certainly a corrupter. On the other hand, the law is a little demonized. Even the one that is currently on the table. Even with him, those who used it learned to live. So I think there's a worse change than whether it was a little tougher or not. Of course, this led to things paradoxical, type - we were unfortunately unable to even open up the rail transport market because I received two offers as a minister and we really had to exclude one for formal reasons. They did not provide any - for one of those people who had evidence of their personnel composition, they did not correctly demonstrate their education, the person had an education from the Slovak Republic, somehow was not recognised in the Czech Republic. And that's it. And the competition's been running for months. And since we have one offer left, and the better one, because there was actually a price, the Ministry of Transport couldn't have concluded a contract. So on the one hand, worried about not being made up competitions sewn on your shirt, that it's really just for one interested person, and it can sometimes be justified. On the other hand, when we choose the absolute, absolute possibility that if there is one, we have to end, which we have chosen at that time, it brings problems from the other side. Pavel Blažek spoke of this yesterday under another law, we should find peace both with regulation and with those interventions. And we, who have met the law on both sides, whether contracting entities or candidates, and for years, I just say, I'm gonna make it a little easier, I'm gonna say, "Every change for the worse." The law swells, swells, swells, awareness that the environment isn't correct, it's not fair, it hasn't changed, even though we're constantly improving, improving, tightening up. And I'm afraid that's okay, if it's 75 percent, maybe more transposition, then what are we gonna do about it here? We can just talk about it, we can say, yeah, if we could, we could do better, then we'll hear if you don't approve or change it, so you're threatened with money, somebody can tell you how much it is in a day, you can't do that damage to the Czech Republic, stopped by a hundred billion-dollar grant. The song keeps repeating itself. Well, I'm really looking forward to the debate. I think we're discussing at an inappropriate time, like tonight after those ten hours, but that was the choice of the government majority - even the relatively thinner for what priority it is, as the Minister says. Too bad those who voted to be here aren't here. That they voted and left. But we're not leaving, we're an honest opposition. Some stayed, that's true, but I would, I would say, one of the previous speakers, I would really prefer quality to speed. Fifty or sixty days is almost irrelevant, because I fear the dozens of amendments, and the guarantee committee will have to deal with it after the second reading. I don't know if you guys counted it exactly for some January week meeting. We're against shortening, of course, but that's all we can do about it. But consider yourselves, especially the social democracy colleagues, who were sitting in opposition at the time laughing at us about how we were suffering from the Public Procurement Act, and you know very well how long it took us to try to find some agreement and a reasonable agreement with you. And we didn't make it in two or three months. However, the result was not happy if I speak at peace and grace today. So maybe we can have it fast, maybe we can make a pipe, and Brussels officials will say: we are fine, we will not apply sanctions against the Czech Republic. But then we'll live with the law. Those European officials, for example, will find our driver's licenses or some other irrelevant thing. Because logically, they have to justify their existence every day. The more they control national states and national parliaments, the more they need to be there. When they find something every week - the one in the Czech Republic, the one in Estonia, the one in Lithuania, Poland. Let's notice another thing. How the European Commission treats the largest countries. Can you imagine that if we were in the euro area, we could regularly, for many years, violate the rules of the economy? That would be Brussels talk. One by one, they would come here, that would be the articles in our newspapers, what a disgrace we are to Europe. And when it happens in France, nothing happens. So I think it applies as a nice bonmot, which is used by one of my colleagues, and I end up with the European Union being an organisation where rules apply until it suits Germany and France, then no more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u47	That was Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. I state two apologies from the next meeting, namely, Minister Kateřina Valachová from 19.15 a.m. and Minister Daniel Herman from 19.30 p.m., both for work reasons in departmental matters. We are continuing with Mr Leoš Heger's discussion because Mr Chvojka has checked out of the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, honourable Members - another member of the government, ladies and gentlemen, so I am a little surprised that I should be the last speaker, and I will certainly not speak for as long as my colleague Stanjura. I'm definitely not gonna cause any anti-government sentiments or anti-European sentiments here. I think, after we started the debate today after the budget with the Transport Infrastructure Act, it was such a beautiful positive case. But today we are ending a problem that would require a very similar approach, because it is something that moves the moods and management in this country, and we can't deal with it. And we can't handle it for a long, long time. I also sat in the government where the new law was being tried. And as the previous speakers have already said, Minister Jankovský suffered greatly from it and was very persecuted for it and also had no one to defend it. Well, to be a little positive, I must commend the Minister, because what she said in the opening words was about two thirds of what I would commend. And I have to say, the other third, I'm not quite sure about that, because I'm not the kind of person who should be speaking too professionally to this law, and I'm going to say why. But after all, I think that again what the Minister said, or did you say, Madam Secretary, that we should make specific comments, so I don't think it's entirely appropriate. We are at first reading, general things should be discussed, putting the law in the whole context, and those specific comments will certainly be second reading. And it is this debate and, where appropriate, questions raised to the petitioner that should serve to ensure that the second round is of good quality. I would like to explain why I'm here and on what basis I'm based. For 15 years, I ran a hospital that spent more than five billion on investment and public procurement over the past 15 years - or investment. It was even more peaceful at such a time when the first law on public procurement began to apply. We had very enlightened economists, so I could count on them fully, and that's why I'm here. Otherwise, I'd probably be one of those many times criminally prosecuted or on which criminal charges are filed. Well, luckily, the people who were there prevented it. [[19.40 hours]] But as time developed, things got worse. We have certainly remained, and the hospital where I have been has remained to this day at the level that the selection procedures are doing well. And what my colleague Luzar said here was that there was just a third more shopping and that it turned out that it could be considerably less and that there was a certain 100% pillow, it's not quite the rule. Many hospitals have done quite reasonably. I can specifically say that although the surrounding entities have sometimes purchased a third more construction contracts, we have almost always managed to go below the threshold set by the budget and some catalogue prices. So that's it. And why it's possible, my previous speakers have already said here. And why they couldn't, they said. The downside of this discussion is that we're talking about the corruption environment and solving all the problems that have been hanging over us all these years, so today we're just talking about the law. And it's already said, it just demonstrates that there's no part of the government here. I'm glad the Minister of Justice is here, because this environment also has to do with how justice and laws work here, and just all the standards we have to comply with. But it is a problem that the Prime Minister and the entire government and at least the Minister of Finance should watch over. And they're not here, and we only have this law that we can criticize, and it's not entirely fair, because we should be having the main debate about the environment today. What was interesting, my 15 years of experience with the law, was that it gradually got worse. It didn't get any worse by breaking the law somehow. It really works in principle so that when a standard is created, there is a wave of problems and then gradually sits down, everyone adapts to it. But it got worse by the environment, where something that was perceived as a rule of law gradually got worse, and what I would lay a little bit to call law clarity, law enforcement and law enforcement. And it got worse, too, by what I think my colleague Bendl mentioned here, that the business environment had become very heated and that methods had started to be used that some of the flaws of our laws had become brutally abused. Why do I say that? I'm just going to briefly recap, as I imagine this system, how a rational purchasing system and some kind of anti-corruption memento should work. Well, first of all, there's the law, that's what we're talking about. But then there's something that can be called a general culture of an environment that consists of a whole series of elements that have already been mentioned here. And that's the problem. So where corruption comes from, no one really knows. No one knows the simple recipe for fighting it, but it's the main problem we're facing today and we're discussing. But there are others. Almost all of them sounded here. It's a problem of subsidies. The subsidies simply deform the system and cause why the commercial sphere is, in some cases, really more efficient than the public sphere. The commercial sphere is usually much less dependent on subsidies, and subsidies carry with them terms that, of course, who builds, has to follow, and does not want to delay the period when he invested something, borrowed for it, and it does not work for him. But this memento that you have to spend some amount at the end of the year or try terribly after the state budget to move it to the second year, it's just drama in every economic organization, and as it turned out with those European projects, it's far worse by one order. Well, the subsidies are one problem. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] In general, and this really belongs to a culture hard to grasp, hard to influence, is professionalism. The project, as my colleague Farský said, is closely related. When you have a good project, you prepare it well, you have specialists in the institution who know the competition law and can apply it, they have long experience, so that's fine. But I've been observing subjects that were ten times smaller than us, and you've had problems with that. They often dealt with the complexity of things by simply hiring a company that made a tender for them, and a lot of them did, because just as you can hire a bad lawyer cheap, you can hire a bad firm and it's a mess and it's just stuff that gets people to pay back subsidies or try to do something. [[The noise intensity in the hall is increasing.]] But the most important thing in the sphere of culture, which I consider to be the real cause of the deterioration, is the legibility and clarity of laws and their enforcement. You guys put the law together, as I was still convincing myself here in the galleys, hooking up with the Office for the Protection of Competition. That's a very key organ. I had the pleasure of observing it in Germany, where they have such an office, and there they say, yes, without it does not work clean -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u49	I am very sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I wanted to remind you that as a management meeting, I am also a very key body here, and as such, I am asking for your peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u50	Thank you to the key organ. I'll be done soon. Uncertainty in the assessment of disputes is an absolutely crucial matter for law to be consumed, readable and unambiguously interpretable and then enforceable. That's where I think our office isn't doing a good job - and now I'm speaking from the point of view of empirical experience. It's not a criticism of the office. I really don't know if it's the law, or if it's because the office has few people, that it doesn't have enough experts, but there's no way it's the support of a system that can help solve public procurement problems effectively. This is also due to the fact that the appeal and abuse of the uncertainty, how and when this will happen at the Competition Authority, is the reason why the environment in competitions has deteriorated so much and why so many people are very targeted and purposeful. [[The atmosphere in the room hasn't calmed down, the noise persists.]] So unfortunately, I have no clear idea what should change in this law, but I have a very clear idea of how this discussion should evolve. And where there will be things that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u51	Yes, Mr Member, I also have an idea of how this debate should evolve, and I ask that it evolve in peace in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't want to name known sinners who are still having fun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u52	Well, I'm sorry I didn't turn out like other, better rhetoricalists, but I'm really coming to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u53	No, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sure you're intrigued. It's a problem... [[Incomprehensible, both speakers speak simultaneously.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u54	Listen to the final points. In conclusion, I wanted to say that where there will remain contradictions that will continue to delay second reading, so that I personally would be very in favour of trying to find solutions that will be easier than more complex where there will be no certainty as to how it should be, and especially to ensure that all the rules that will be there are more readable. The competition authority, which bears the main burden of assessment, should also be very active in this regard. He should say, therefore, what he will be able to decide from what has been said here, that he is incomprehensible and uninterpretable. I'd like to put this in the wine of another fate of this law. I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed for myself and all my colleagues in health care, so it moves forward a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u55	I thank Mr Heger. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Given that after several appeals by both my colleagues and my colleagues to raise the number of ministers in this hall and not to leave it completely illegal for the Minister herself - it really bothers me, it bothers me from the principle that I can imagine how she is at the moment. No one came forward to defend her, no one stood up for her here. The Prime Minister isn't here either. I propose that this item be interrupted by Friday morning by 9 o'clock, and I would like to ask the Minister at the same time to ask his colleagues and also the representatives of the coalition government to ask his Prime Minister to be present for this debate, because the debate is indeed very important and we want to address this issue. So I'm making a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-009-999.u57	I have noted your procedural proposal, which I will put to the vote without debate. There's a request for everyone to check out, so I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. [[The board shows that there are only 58 Members present.]] I must say that the House is not yet capable of quorum. [[It's still waiting a little while, the number's up to 60.]] If the House is not a quorum, I am forced to interrupt the House's meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm interrupting the House meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you and have a good evening.
