ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u1	1. Information to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on the solution of illegal immigration within EU territory We discussed this information on 18 June 2015, when we interrupted it in the general debate. I would remind you that on 18 June you were given information for the 30th extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the subject of illegal migration in the territory of the European Union and a summary of crisis events with migration impacts in selected states and regions of May 2015 prepared by the Ministry of Interior. None of the ministers who spoke the opening word means both Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, who is excused only for part of the morning meeting, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is on a foreign trip, is not present. I will therefore ask one of the members of the government to take the position at the rapporteur's table. I see Karel Fiedler's application, but he spoke according to my remarks on 18 June, so I will delete it from the logs and we will continue with the interrupted debate, in which individual Members are duly enrolled, but with priority right I shall register the application of President ODS President Petr Fiala and also with the ODS club's position will be expressed by Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Those are the priority rights I have. But first, I'm going to ask one of the members of the government to take the role of government. Ochoten is Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, so this is excellent. Minister Martin Stropnický will take a seat at the rapporteur's table for the Government of the Czech Republic, which presents the information. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] I beg the peace of my fellow Member and Member. I'll wait a little while longer before you finish. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I think what we've just seen here is characteristic of how the government approaches foreign policy and this issue. I'm glad there was at least one member of the government who came to sit at the rapporteur's desk so I could even start talking to that point. Unfortunately, there are not many key ministers, there is no Prime Minister. I understand, of course, that he has his own agenda and I respect that, however, that we are discussing such an important subject here, and the Prime Minister here, as most of the time, when we talk about foreign policy issues, is not, shows his priorities. The government continues to practice when there is very little or no communication on migration and foreign policy in general. And we are still witnessing that every minister says what he wants, and they don't even share fundamental facts with each other, and the Prime Minister keeps his mouth shut or changes his mind every day. I would like to remind you and remind us all, including you, that The Chamber of Deputies has committed the Government of the Czech Republic, and therefore the Prime Minister, with its resolution of February this year, to keep the House informed of the positions that the Government will take in the EU negotiations. This is not happening, and most of the negotiations that we have at all in the Chamber of Deputies concerning foreign policy or European policy are raised from among the opposition. The need for clear information on the positions of the Czech Republic, on the positions held by the Czech Government, is all the more important in the situation when the Czech Government surrendered at European summits, capitulated after the European Union and some strong Member States did not hesitate to use the policy of coercion and power superiority in order to adopt mandatory quotas for the redistribution of refugees. The Czech coalition government decided to accept this fact passively despite previous claims without any political or judicial resistance. This inaction does not only threaten the resolution of the migration crisis but, above all, threatens the future possibility of defending our interests in the European Union. We supported the government, the government had opposition support, it had support across the political spectrum in terms of its negative attitude towards quotas, because we thought that the government was really behind its negative position, that it would promote it, that it was willing to defend it and that it was willing to defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[9.10 hours]] However, it turns out clearly that the government has played a great European comedy here. On the one hand, she showed the public and the media that she was fighting against quotas, but on the other hand, at the moment when it came to breaking political bread, she took reverse, probably in order not to make too many enemies in the European Union. The Prime Minister is probably afraid that he will face a fate similar to that of Robert Fic, who does not hesitate to defend Slovak citizens, and the European Socialist International threatens to exclude him because his thinking is not pro-Europeanly progressive enough. Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš may again fear that if the government calls, it will anger the European Commission and stop the influx of subsidies that are also going into his business. We are deeply convinced that the majority overvoted on the issue of the admission of foreign nationals to our territory, that is to say, a matter which is inherently concerned with security, which concerns the sovereignty of our country, is a risky precedent. And this isn't just my opinion. The fact that the system of mandatory quotas proposed by the European Commission is "unacceptable and may also represent a dangerous precedent for the future" is the words of Prime Minister Sobotka of 18 June this year, from the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on migration issues. And the same Bohuslav Sobotka, two weeks later, tells the public that the government will accept mandatory quotas without protest. Thus, the precedent, which he called extremely dangerous, was essentially created by his attitude. In terms of future defence of our interests, the interest of the Czech Republic within the European Union, the use, but also the silent acceptance, even the silent acceptance of such solutions, the power solution by the government, is totally unacceptable. There is a risk that this solution, this way, overrules the national interests and interests of the Czech Republic, will become a proven practice in the European Union, thus preventing any possibility of defending our interests, our views, our attitudes, that is, interests, attitudes and opinions of citizens of the Czech Republic in the future. If we accept this practice without resistance, without any response, without any defence, there is a risk that the issues of our national sovereignty, our concerns, our security will be decided by some voting coalition of the Union, the voting machine within the Council, and that is totally unacceptable. For example, in June of this year, the Prime Minister said that he insisted that it must be national governments that have a chance to control and regulate migration flows into their territories. Another opportunity where the government will be able to defend our interests on migration will be to discuss the Commission's proposal for a permanent redistribution mechanism. But how will the government prevent this next Commission proposal when it has already de facto admitted this principle? I am almost afraid that it is almost too late for this question, which I have just asked, how the government will defend this new Commission proposal. But it's too late because the government didn't act or tell the public the truth. For several days, a few weeks before our fiasco at the Council of the European Union, I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister directly what the Government's procedure would be if qualified majority voting threatened, and what the Government would do if it were overruled on this issue. Either I didn't know anything, or I was blamed by Minister Zaorálk in our joint television performance that I scared people that the Czech government had the situation under control. The Foreign Minister also added that - I quote: "it is convinced that the use of a qualified majority in the European Union is applied to technical matters and the application to this explicitly political matter is a precedent that would be dangerous' - the end of the quote from the words of Minister Zaorálek. However, it seems that the Minister's European partners have been well trained in the use of qualified majority. The same Minister Zaorálek says today that we will not resist the precedent, because we would have to stand out for further negotiations. All I have to say is that the Czech Foreign Minister has not only hit his heels here, but that he has been shot in the foot and thinks that as a one-legged Czech representative, he will improve his starting position. Well, then I think that the Czech Republic will not only improve its starting position with this attitude, but it has deteriorated catastrophically. I must say that such Czech diplomacy does not defend Czech interests, but all it defends is its own smooth functioning in the European Union. And ladies and gentlemen, it's not the same thing. Czech diplomacy is not meant to defend the smooth functioning, its smooth functioning within the European Union, but to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and the interests of Czech citizens, which it does not. Again, at this point it is not just migration issues, but it is the very principle of the functioning of the Czech Republic within the European Union. In practice, the government must defend itself by all political and legal means in force on matters of national interest. If the government does not do so, if it does not use all the means, if it does not defend itself, it will betray the interests of our citizens and will irreversibly damage people's already low trust in the European integration project. Unfortunately - and I really hate to say this, because I do not want to gain any opposition political points on these matters, I would be happy if we achieved a national consensus on this matter and could proceed together - unfortunately, the government's current progress does not arouse confidence. And it does not just wake her up for what the government has done, but it does not wake her up for what she said about this position, because it is quite obvious that the government has not told us the whole truth, that it has not been and is not united on this issue and that even the whole truth was probably not told to each other by individual members of the government. The possibility of effective enforcement of our interests has thus fallen victim to a discrepancy between members of the government who do not share with each other the elementary information that affects the tactics of the negotiations and once again threatens our national interests by doing so. Prime Minister Sobotka on the Czech Television programme - to illustrate this on specific cases - said on September 13: "Our goal is to make sure that this is the case" - so think about quotas - "he spoke at the European Council, not to close the matter at the level of interior ministers or foreign ministers. So we want to," said Prime Minister Sobotka, "to deal with this at European Council level, as it was in the past." But how are we to understand that, in an interview for the weekly Respekt, the Prime Minister Prouza, the right hand of the Prime Minister, who is in charge of European affairs and to some extent coordinates the Czech European policy, on September 29th, admitted that "the aim of the unsuccessful June negotiations that Prime Minister Sobotka took part in was to conclude the agreement by the interior ministers at whose meetings the vote is being taken, and that the premieres will then focus on really important matters"? [[9.20 hours]] If you have listened to me, ladies and gentlemen, not to me, but to Prime Minister Sobotka and Secretary Prouza, it must be clear to you that one of these gentlemen is not telling the truth. One of these gentlemen is lying to the public. Perhaps they were inspired by the words of their social democratic colleague from Hungary, former Prime Minister Gyurcsány, who in his famous quote admitted what his politics looked like when he said: We lied during the day, we lied at night. I would just add that former Socialist Prime Minister Gyurcsány said: we lied in the daytime, we lied in the night to succeed in the elections. Here I do not suspect that social democracy was doing this because it wants to succeed in elections, but rather I think that they did it out of comfort, to avoid conflict, to tell the public one thing that is not true, and otherwise they did it at the level of the European Union, where they got under the pressure of strong states. And if that is the case, I think the Prime Minister might also forgive those theatrical gestures that we have also witnessed when he escorted his Home Secretary to the airport before he left for the key meeting of the quota council to - I quote: morally supported him because he has a busy day ahead of him. Unfortunately, the gentlemen somehow forgot to tell themselves that that day would be hard because the Polák would not hold the united position of the Visegrad group, on which the government so built. The Prime Minister then played surprised, although the government, except for the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec, although the Government said about the Polish position, as State Secretary Prouza once again - I quote: she knew for a week because she called the Prime Minister to our Prime Minister that they were withdrawing their agreement from the V4. It would therefore be right for the government to also communicate to the public, since apparently some of the members of the government had already known this in advance, why Poland had backed out of the common position. Poland has probably backed out because it is counting on the situation in Ukraine to deteriorate and a subsequent wave of Ukrajinec migration can come. Whereas the Government should also make it clear to us that the conclusions of the Council of Ministers' meetings contain no guarantee that the quotas will not be used repeatedly, so it is very likely that the quotas and other numbers of migrants will be on the table once and may be necessary on the basis of Poland's request. When we look at this by action, not by rhetoric, we see that, at a factual level, the government defends its passivity and its approach to de facto senseless quotas, and that the quotas that are likely to be permanent here will bring an unknown number of people to our territory and will not work in terms of tackling the migration crisis within the European Union anyway. Given that the debate on the migration crisis will undoubtedly continue, I call on the Government to defend itself at European level, to promote the steps that the civil democratic party has been proposing for a long time, and some of which we want to pass on to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which Mrs Miroslava Němcová will propose after me. 1. We ask the Government to insist on a negative position on compulsory quotas and to join the European Court of Justice in bringing an action, as Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek has also announced. By pushing the mandatory quotas through force, the EU has resigned itself to democratic principles of decision-making, and it is essential that we face this, so that we can be consistent on this issue and thus face a proposal for a mandatory redistribution mechanism, which is undoubtedly on the table. 2. The government must reject any pressure to unify welfare benefits for refugees in the countries of the European Union. On the contrary, social benefits need to be reduced and the pressure on integration increased. Moreover, there is a risk that the unification of social benefits will then spill over into the need to unify other things, to unify asylum procedures throughout the European Union, which is just another way to a European superstate, a path that goes against the interests of the Czech Republic and against the interests of its citizens. 3. The government must put pressure on an accelerated change to the European Union budget in order to strengthen resources to improve refugee conditions in camps outside the European Union. If the European Union can run its course, it will allocate 645 million to its administrative course. CZK daily, so it is necessary to change its priorities and find budgetary resources, and that will be no big problem to increase the aid already approved to refugee camps, which is currently to be 1 billion. EUR. The same thing, so that we do not just say what is to be done at European level, is also necessary at the level of the Czech Republic, i.e. within the budget of the Czech Republic. I'm reminding you of our request for a government. The Czech Republic has been giving about 4 billion for long-term development cooperation. CZK, which is 0.11% of gross domestic product. But we made a commitment when we joined the EU to give 0.33 percent of GDP this year, and that, if you count, is about 10 billion. That's 10 billion. The government, of course, has, spends it, by 10 billion. It increased the operating costs of ministries year-on-year. But here, the money would be used correctly, and it would be used well. And let us not forget that every crown that is spent at the point of conflict has a sevenfold higher price than the crown, which is used as a result of the solution of the migration crisis in the Czech Republic. 4. The government should insist that the migration crisis is, above all, a security problem and that it has one of its fundamental reasons for failing to handle organised crime on Europe's periphery. It is therefore necessary to combat organised crime, smuggling, human trafficking and to consistently protect the Union's external borders. A quarter of a year ago, the EU agreed to confiscate ships, dive smugglers' ships, but has not done anything yet. Instead, they come up with quotas, and if they do not come up with quotas, the External Service and the Commission could, for example, try to reach the diplomatic field to obtain the mandate of the UN Security Council that is necessary for this activity. But again, we do not want to talk only about what is to be done at European level, what big states are to do. We want to contribute to this fight against smuggling, to human trafficking, too. Therefore, the ODS proposes tightening up the penalties for transferring illegal refugees, now it is 5 years, respectively. 8 for an organized group, and this requires the same rate as yours for gambling. And I'm sure we all agree that the social security of smuggling is much higher at this time, and an increase in penalties would undoubtedly have a preventive and deterrent effect. In this context, the government should also insist on following the timetable for the completion of those so-called. hotspots at the EU's external border in order to start identifying people as soon as possible and assessing the legitimacy of the application for international protection. 5. At European level, the government should initiate a Union preventive and information campaign, which may be initiated by the European External Action Service, in order to also have some work to do. She would finally do something when this outside service costs us 8 billion a year. EUR. The EU could thus make effective use of its delegations in sub-Saharan countries and its partnership with the African Union, the Balkans and the Middle East. There could also be an intensive preventive communication campaign in this regard, both in source and target countries, because this campaign needs to be conducted not only in source countries, in transit countries, but also in those communities where the flow of refugees is heading, i.e. in communities within EU countries. [[9.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on quotas has clearly shown the dangers posed by the current setting of decision-making mechanisms within the European Union. The government of Prime Minister Sobotka, by supporting the deepening of the process of European integration, by not putting up with this new practice, does not want to confront this new precedent, the political risks of the practice of the new power decision-making only deepen. At the end of my speech, I would like to recall once again the words of Prime Minister Sobotka, who, during his visit to Germany in May, said that European integration considered a happy story that is a set of instruments supported by robust institutional pillars. Of course, Prime Minister Sobotka said, we give them life; they themselves cannot stand without our work and trust. So I take these words seriously, although it is not quite easy, and I ask the Prime Minister to give his life to these words and to increase the confidence of citizens in the European Union by finally acting in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Undoubtedly, our people deserve the lucky story that Prime Minister Sobotka is talking about. However, we will only achieve this happy story by using the nearest possible opportunity - and this should be a lesson in this story, which is not happy at all, to revote the story in terms of quotas - that the government will take advantage of the nearest opportunity when the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union will be opened, and it will take an active stand for the legal change of the position of the Czech Republic within the European Union. And speaking of opening contracts, changing the position of the Czech Republic in the European Union, I want to emphasise that I am not calling for the happy ending of our membership in the European Union, but for our citizens, for the Czech Republic, I want such conditions of membership in the European Union, which will enable us to maintain autonomy and sovereignty on fundamental issues concerning the Czech Republic concerning our national interests, which concern the interests of Czech citizens. The government does not defend these interests, it does not tell people the truth, it does not act responsibly on EU policy, and thus threatens our future, but also our sensible and dignified position within the European Union. I call on the Government to change its actions and to finally defend the interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u3	I thank Mr Petr Fial for his speech and allow me to read two more apologies. Mr Jaroslav Zavadil from 9:00 to 11:00 and Mr Kořenek from 9:30 for work reasons. I will announce - in addition to those who are on the board, we have two priority rights - Mrs Němcová and Mr Benešík. These are the positions of the MPs, but the factual points I have to make before that are Mr Fiedler, Mr Zlatuška, Mr Okamura, Mr Černoch and Mr Foldyna. Well, those are factual remarks now. Now, then, Mr Fiedler, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President rightly noted that there was a mistake on the board that I had already spoken at the first part of this meeting, and that is precisely why I took a factual point and I would like to comment on the circumstances under which the extraordinary meeting was interrupted. It was in the circumstances when the Chamber of Deputies rejected the votes of the members of the Government Coalition to continue this meeting in June. I have asked that it be possible to act after 21.00 and this vote has been postponed by the governing meeting at the time, dragged out as long as the quorum in the Chamber of Deputies has fallen below one-third. In other words, I will elaborate on this for the citizens watching the broadcasts from the House, until the members of the government coalition present, some have pulled out their voting cards, and although they have obviously been present in the Chamber of Deputies, they have prevented this vote and the continuation of the House's negotiations on this matter. I would follow up on the words of the previous speaker, President Fiala, about how the government is doing. The government is to answer to the Chamber of Deputies, the government clearly did not want to answer to the Chamber of Deputies, it did not want to convey its intentions and actions to the Chamber of Deputies and citizens. That is why it ruined the continuation of this extraordinary meeting in June, and I believe that we will miss the three months that have taken place in the meantime. The only gratifying thing is that the government is gradually implementing what the Dawn Party proposed in its proposals and recommendations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u5	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual remark by Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u6	Mr President, I would just like to point out that there is a mix-up of terms that Mr ODS President Fiala gave here. His flaming Filipica against the government's position was aimed at the link of quotas with migration. The quotas relate solely to asylum procedures, not to the placement of migrants. And if we are serious about returning asylum seekers, who are only migrants, not refugees, so far, no one is suggesting a working mechanism other than quotas, and the prospect of hotspots outside the European Union is a constructive solution, but it does not address the current situation. I would recommend at least reading the regulation that is being discussed in the European Commission. I think that both President ODS and many others did not seem to read the 16 pages and look at what was actually there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Another factual point by Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL agreed to receive thousands of illegal immigrants from hostile countries and from hostile cultures, and I stress that the first 1500 illegal immigrants decided to accept this government in July, when there were no quotas, all against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens of the Czech Republic. This government has no mandate for these irreversible actions, which will cause great social tensions and an increase in crime in the future, since until recently, government officials have said that there is no problem with immigrants and there is no need to prepare for it. The result of this government incompetence and servility towards Brussels and Washington is the acceptance of thousands of unwanted invaders against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens, all at the expense of social security for our citizens. This government has decided to spend billions of crowns on illegal immigrants at the expense of our citizens. This government should resign as it violated its actions, when it adopted the dictation of Brussels without resistance, the sovereignty of our Republic. Again, against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens of the Czech Republic, and this is a very serious moment. These are irreversible steps that will affect generations of further developments in the Czech Republic, and we should allow citizens to express themselves in a binding referendum at this serious moment. You rejected this proposal for us, our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement of the SPD, here in the House three times this summer. Or it should allow citizens to express themselves in early elections. And I ask you, Government, to allow the citizens of democracy, not your dictatorship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u9	That was Mr Tomio Okamura. We continue with factual remarks - there are two more because my colleague Černoch turned his application into an application with priority rights. Now, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, my colleagues. I listened carefully to the speech of the President of the Civil Democrats. It was beautiful, but it was long, and it was a bit of a lie. I liked the paraphrase that he would say - I heard that about social democracy he and he said - we lied, we lied. Well, I've heard it in public too, it's been said about civil democrats - we've been stealing by day, we've been stealing by night. That's why they're a marginal political party today, and they need to improve their image. The public is haunted by immigrants. When you look at the headlines of today's paper, they say: The Czech Government has the worst relations with Germany. Merkelová's not answering Sobotek's phone. The chovanec compared the negotiations in the European Parliament to Munich... So what kind of government doesn't do its part? So journalists see the Czech government kicking for national interests. Of course, we have been overvoted, we have to take a stand, we have to give a mandate to the government. And I totally agree with you. Let's just please forgive these things we don't need in this discussion. Let's stick to the merit of things. You know, 168 people asked the Czech Republic for asylum in a quarter of a year. In a quarter of a year, 168 people. Nobody wants to come here anymore. Thank God for our president, who names these things without any hypocrisy. Thank God for Minister Chovanec, who named these things in the European Council or in the European institutions as he named them. Thank God Merkelová isn't answering his phone right now, because soon we'll have no one to answer that phone, because the German policy in the European Union - I totally agree with you - is outrageous. He's outrageous. He's showing us something we didn't go to the European Union for. Neither of us. So let's just sort things out, not blame ourselves here, 'cause that would suck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of fact, then Mr Pavel Blažek's colleague, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. It's really nice when someone who insults us ends up - let's discuss things, let's keep the insults. After he let out a lot of insults. But I will not respond to Mr. Foldyna, it makes no sense. President Fiala's speech quoted individual contradictory statements by members of the government and secretary for Europe, the right hand of Prime Minister Sobotka. And that's where the contradictions are obvious. Then explain them. Secretary Prouza knew Poland would leave us, a week in advance, and Minister Chovanec didn't know! So which one of them isn't telling the truth? I don't know. Maybe they didn't tell the minister. But the sketchy scene at the airport, President Fiala described it very well. And for the absent Mr Zlatuška through the Vice-President. He always comes - when he talks to the more successful Rector of Masaryk University, he has to come out and he has to be offended somehow. Well, just to his color range. Ambassador Zlatuška through the Vice-President, if we paint the problem pink like you, someone with a brown political agenda will come here and wonder. Look at how extreme and populist parties in Western Europe are strengthening, and it is only because standard political parties refuse to have a debate about the problems that people are interested in, they face that there is no such thing, they blew up problems, they don't pay attention to them, and then they wonder how elections fall. We don't want to be like that. Unlike you, we have prepared ten motions for resolutions, which will be presented by Mrs Němcová, who define the mandate for the Czech Republic. I believe that we will find sufficient support for these resolutions in the Chamber of Deputies. It was we who called a meeting in February, proposed a resolution and, thanks to support from other political parties, we created a mandate for the Czech Government. And today we come up with constructive proposals again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u13	I thank President Stanjur for keeping time on the point of fact. I can't exercise priority rights yet, because I have other factual points. Now the President, Mr Pavel Blažek, then Mr Černoch, then Minister Chovanec, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u14	Hello. Mr President, thank you, maybe I'll be a chairman someday, maybe I'll succeed. The address didn't offend me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u15	Okay. I'm happy for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u16	Maybe I don't, but that's another thing. I would have responded briefly to Mr Foldyna. I mean, it's so simple. ČSSD is a party that has always been called. pro-European, and playing exactly the game that often played by opponents of unification. That means, if the government was afraid to enforce itself or approve any provision or decision, then they let it go through Brussels to order it, and then those governments said, well, what we're supposed to do, it goes from bad Brussels. Your procedure - and we blame you for that - is one simple thing. The government was counting on how things were going to turn out in Brussels. She's been counting on it for a long time, and she's been playing that cowardly game to get it ordered so she doesn't have to decide for herself. And I warn you, colleagues from the ČSSD, that you have achieved a terrible effect. You have shown weakness to your own government, which is afraid to decide. And secondly, the Brusel that you've been defending here for 20 years has been completely discredited in front of our citizens. This means that your result of what you have shown is absolutely defensive to both you and the European Union. And maybe the Czech government doesn't deserve it, or the damn Brussels so many times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u17	Now, Mr Černoch, Mr Zlatuška, Mr Lank and Mr Okamura's factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u18	Good morning, thank you for the floor. I don't think it really matters - CSSD, ODS. Arguing here at this point where there's no point at all. The problem here is completely different. And it's not about whether he's pink-brown or what, as my colleague Zlatuška said through you. I don't think my colleague Zlatuška knows what he's talking about. Just attack and just create some feelings here. Look, you read, you read, Mr. Colleague, what's going on for a year. It's not a matter of weeks or fourteen days. It's a matter of a year. It's a question of the fact that huge waves keep pouring in and no one's gonna figure it out. Everyone's always arguing. Germany will announce on one side that it will accept all of them, close the border for the next week. There may be no one here today, but in six months or a year, the problem may be very, very relevant. And Dawn's year is fighting against this thing that's happened right now in order to happen. Unfortunately, it happened. And it's not today's quota. There'll be another quota in a year, there'll be a bigger quota. And it's nothing against these people. Of course, these people need help, but at this point, I think that the debate should be more about how the Czech Republic will stand up to it and whether it will submit to the dictatorship of the European Union. And I personally think that we are a sovereign state, that we are a proud state, and we have no reason to submit to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and please address all your colleagues through the President. Mr Zlatuška's point of order, then Mr Tomio Okamura, Mr Lank, Mr Koskuba and Mr Jandák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u20	Mr President, about what Mr Stanjura here said to the parties to my shade, which I described as pink, the pink part. This was about the touching interest of the President of the ODS in the fate of Robert Fic in European socialists. I find this interest remarkable. I don't know whether to go to Slovakia or even further. And this was meant by the pink shade.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u21	I thank my colleague Zlatušek for his time. Now, Mr Tomio Okamura, then Mr Lank. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, in any debate on the immigration crisis, let us not forget who caused the crisis. It was the crazy pro-migration policy of Brussels and individual Western countries headed by Germany. In the debate on the European Union, too, let us not forget the reading demonstration of the European Union's absolute inability to face the attack of migrants unitedly. The only thing the European Union has done is to try to redistribute the problem that the leading European countries have caused to those who have not caused the problem. That is why the debate on the immigration crisis includes the topic of staying in a society, which, in a crisis, will immediately crumble into individual selfish states that are trying to make others pay their mistakes. It's not solidarity anymore. I'm sorry for your honesty, it's filthy! The hypocrisy of Prime Minister Sobotka and the entire government is also outrageous enough to say openly that he wants illegal migrants to enter our country, but in fact his people in Brussels are doing everything they can to ensure that the maximum of them can be settled in our country. Three times already, you, the government, our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - have rejected the SPD's proposal for a referendum by the citizens of the Czech Republic to resign from the European Union so that citizens themselves can decide their future in our country. For two years, you have been publicizing the impending problem of illegal immigrants and dehonesting and slandering those who have long warned about this problem, as I was. And when the problem comes, the government waits idlely for instructions from Brussels or Germany and finally bends its back before the Brussels dictation and betrays Czech sovereignty and statehood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to record factual remarks, including electronic applications. Please do not confuse the factual point, that is to say the reaction to the previous speaker or the previous speaker with the performance. I understand you want to respond. It's possible, I don't know what you're talking about, or anyone else can tell because we can't see into your head. But the fact is that if you do this in this way, every president, not just me, will have to interrupt you, take your word and give order to those who, for example, have been waiting for it for more than three quarters of an hour. Now, colleague Lank. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u24	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna try not to yell, and now I'm a little afraid not to get worked up. I think we had a really nice fight here, we did the nice theater again. It's starting to kick ass as usual. That's exactly what the public expects of us. I don't think we let her down. But I will try to hear what has been said here several times by my previous speakers, return a little bit to the matter and return the debate a little bit to the dorms, so that we may do something, although I fear in vain. We are constantly learning from the media about hundreds and hundreds of immigrants, about the overcrowding of all refugee detention and residence centres, but we learn little about the number of detainees. While they are the wheels in gear, they are the driving force in this modern migration of nations, on which they are incredibly rich, and apparently cost hundreds of thousands of families their life savings. I would like, for example, to have the Czech Chovanec Minister present answer what the police are doing against the smuggling gangs, how many they have uncovered and how successful the fight against them is, or failed. I assume we all agree on how important prevention is in this migration crisis. Then why are the Syřan, the Afghánec and others constantly flowing to Europe, even though almost all the states, unfortunately with the exception of the Czech Republic, have somehow closed their borders? I'm asking: Isn't that what we can do in today's modern technology system, that we can track everyone from the German chancellor to the French president, catch the smuggler? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u25	I thank my colleague Lanka. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Koskuba. Mr Jandák will be prepared, then Minister Stropnický and then President Stanjura. Those are the factual remarks that are ahead of us. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to reverse the direction of the debate that is going in our classic direction again, and I really want to respond to a number of my previous speakers. I would hate to sign the Party Ortel, but I can say that, in essence, I liked the speech of President Fiala as a representative of the opposition party. I understand that he's attacking the government. On the other hand, I ask others who have gone after him: Let us stop labeling ourselves, people, please. Again, there are only party stickers and don't be angry, there are 200 of us. And yet we're not a herd, everyone sees this thing differently and doesn't always vote as the party stores. We're discussing a rather serious subject here. We're supposed to be dealing with something people care about. Those people who elected us here, and we're about to come to a certain conclusion. Yes, I heard a motion for a resolution from the opposition. That's exactly the debate I'm imagining. If our government had gone to Brussels already with a resolution, because we control it, everything would look different. Let us not condemn the government as a whole without any servility. I can't complain about Minister Chovanec. He's handling his role from my point of view as he should. But government is not a flock, and each one behaves differently. Ladies and gentlemen, please, this is a serious subject. Let us stop attacking each other, let us stop labeling ourselves and come here with concrete motions for resolutions. I'll be grateful, and the voters will be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u27	Thank you. I'll be grateful that you'll follow the facts. A colleague, Jandák, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, actually, my colleague Koskuba has said the Meritum. At the beginning of this meeting, I suggested that we actually send the Prime Minister and our delegation to Brussels with something to send them with a resolution, or the government is accountable to Parliament, to go with Parliament's commitment not to adopt the quota system. That didn't happen. And what's the point of today's meeting? We've convinced ourselves that the bigger ones always roll over the smaller ones, so we'll be here all morning talking, and we'll figure out what's going on. And what happens? Nothing. That resolution was supposed to be in the hands of the Prime Minister who went there! That's when he was supposed to have it in his hand! It's useless now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u29	Ambassador, thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the de facto remark made by Minister Stropnický. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking after Mr Jandák is always a problem, but I will try, because the bar is mostly high, and I mean without the slightest grain of irony. I feel like almost the whole rational world is wondering how to solve the situation. It's a situation we haven't been trained for, prepared for those or those reasons, one or the other has neglected something serious. Serious maybe even in some sharper conflict of opinion, but still try to finish some solution, not to grade each other and lecture each other. I didn't know how many genius brains there were, and there's probably a few of them here who just kind of know. I really envy them. But I would just like to point out that the tenths of percent and the percentages obtained by the sublime and low abuse of this very serious situation are a sign of the lowest political genre imaginable. Let's talk about things seriously! And there were serious and relevant comments. Or let's yell like the bleachers of the people here, but the other one won't move us anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u31	Thank you, Minister Stropnický. And now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact. I don't see him, so my colleague Benešík. Come on, you have a point of fact. Two more. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised. I've been in this House for less than two years. There are gentlemen who have spoken before me, gentlemen, colleagues who may have been here for fifteen, twenty years, and they do not seem to know that there is a committee on European affairs that, before the Prime Minister leaves for the European Council, is discussing his mandate and commenting on that mandate. This committee in its Rules of Procedure represents the entire House! That means the Prime Minister has gone to the European Council with us, with the House's remarked mandate as always! Ladies and gentlemen, look at the structure of the House. The European Committee has been sitting about thirty-eight times, so you know, I don't know how the other committees met. The Prime Minister goes there and has a mandate from us! He's got it approved and remembered by us. We're staying at House 3. Please come and see the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr Benešík. The only problem is that if the House decides to want to see the mandate as a whole, the committee is unlucky. So it's a simple thing. Mr Martin Novotný, with a point of fact, and then a final point in fact - the penultimate, Mr Bendl, and then Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u34	I address my factual point by means of the President-in-Office of Jandák, who is not here at the moment, and it will consist of reading my Facebook status, which I wrote to myself on 15 September at 1717, that is, at the time we finished the last debate. "After a brief debate in the House, the item on the immigration crisis on the proposal of Social Democrat Hamáček was interrupted by the outcome of the EU summit. Understandably, the government does not feel the need to support its position by the House's resolution before a meeting at which the Czech position is really threatened. And they would have obtained a resolution that was acceptable to them." I think that's what happened. "Would they have counted in advance that they would come back and just cower their shoulders?" That's the answer to my colleague Jandák's performance. We could have given the resolution then, but it really wasn't our fault that the resolution didn't come about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will continue the debate. Another point of fact is signed by Mr Petr Bendl. Mr Černoch will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I was also provoked by fellow Jandák, who says that the government needs a mandate, and then the government coalition here votes that we will no longer discuss immigration until the competent authorities of the European Union act. [[with laughter]] This goes precisely against the meaning of what we, as the opposition, would like, because we wanted the government to be equipped with a mandate to be clear ahead of how the Czech government should behave at European Union level. [[with emphasis]] This is one thing to talk about: what we are able to achieve in the institutions of the European Union, and another: what we are able to do ourselves. That's what we wanted to talk about here, and that's what we have to talk about here today. We must talk about how the government, when it rejected quotas, but at the same time nodded to a relatively equal number of people who are ready to accept them to the Czech Republic, would choose them herself, not to let them dictate. And we want to know: How will he choose them? Who's gonna pick them? Whether they are not people in an area that can potentially be dangerous to the Czech Republic and so on. Those are the things we wanted to talk about, and I hope that we can talk about them in proper applications today, not just in technical terms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Černoch, with a factual remark, will prepare Mr Benešík with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would follow up with my colleague Benešík. The Committee on European Affairs is indeed working. I don't know about other committees, but I think he's working 100%, maybe more. As has been said here, both on 11 June a resolution was adopted on the Committee on European Affairs, which we voted on. I proposed a change in this resolution that the government should leave with a negative attitude towards compulsory quotas. This resolution has been adopted. In the end, the government acted in this way. But at the moment we were outvoted, there was a fundamental moment of a turning point, a turning point, a problem that I think we are talking about right now, and that was an expression - an example of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš - that we will not join the lawsuit so that we do not lose money from the European Union. On the other hand, it was said somewhere that we might join. So I ask if we will join as the Czech Republic, if the government joins Slovakia and contradicts it, it will proceed negatively against the regulation of mandatory quotas, because quotas have already taken place, the vote has taken place, we have been overvoted. It's a dictation. But it just happened. But we have a chance to defend ourselves. And even according to the analysis, according to the analysis that's on the Home Office's website, it says - I had it printed out, but I wasn't enough to bring it - that this regulation is against the UN Council. [[with emphasis]] [[Charter?]] So in this regard, the question is whether we're going to defend ourselves. So I'm asking the government if they're going to defend themselves and not accept the quotas, or if they're going to submit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u39	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the note that arrived at my house. Today, Mr Radek Vondráček apologizes for working reasons for the whole day. Mr Benešík, followed by Mr Okamura and Mr Jandák, is also on the table with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, once again. I don't want any educational windows here. But I'm gonna do it again. We have reminded the European Committee of the Prime Minister's mandate, we have adopted a resolution on this mandate in precisely the intensities that are being called for here. The Prime Minister had such a mandate and such comments from the Chamber of Deputies that we are talking about and say he did not have them. It simply follows from the Rules of Procedure, and our committee is unique in this, that our committee represents the House. That means he was equipped with the mandate of the entire House through our committee. No other committee has that option. But if the House requires and wants to modify the committee's mandate in some way and anything we decide on there, it can do so. It's really not my fault he doesn't do it. But simply the Prime Minister of this country went to the European Council with the mandate of this House through our committee, which allows the Rules of Procedure. That's just the way it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mr Okamura, Mr Jandák, is now making a point of fact. Mr Tejc will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the previous speakers. Any discussion about the numbers of migrants that this government has begun to accept against the will of citizens is irrelevant, for one reason only. So far, migrants who come or go through our territory in many thousands a day are mere vanguards. They are mostly young Arab and African men on whose way their families or Islamists have paid for their journey, and their task is only to prepare facilities for their relatives and fellow soldiers. According to our laws, those who get a residence permit have the right to family reunification, which means that if we accept, for example, a thousand people, we'll have to have ten thousand here legally. Of course, none of them come here as a temporary fugitive before the war. After all, there is no war in Turkey where they come from. They're economic immigrants. But they, too, openly admit that they want to settle down in Europe and bring their families here. It is an entirely open settlement invasion, the aim of which is to Islamise Europe and, at the same time, to drain as much money as possible from Europe. I therefore stress once again that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, as the only parliamentary party, promotes zero tolerance for illegal immigration. And you, the government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement, betrayed citizens when you absolved quotas for illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic completely against the will of the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[There is a group of Members standing in front of the ČSSD benches, one of whom calls out: They did not agree!]] Yes, it was agreed by the European Union, and you nodded to it without resistance, unlike Slovakia. And I again call on this government to resign and to take new early elections because you are taking irreversible steps that will affect the Czech Republic for generations, and you do not have a mandate to do so, because you yourself have already defrauded this problem this winter, and you said that there is no one here, instead of preparing ourselves legislatively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u43	Thank you. So now, Mr Jandák, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Tejc. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard for me to say this, but you're right. You're right! I didn't get the floor to say it in public. You're right. And to my colleague Benešík only: the committee's resolution... [[President: Through me.]] By your means, of course. I wouldn't dare do that without your middlemanship. [[Fun in the hall.]] But I wanted to say one thing. You know, the House resolution is a little bit more than the committee resolution. You have a great European committee, but what I wanted was the resolution of this House. I'm sorry, you're right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Tejc, with a factual remark, and after that, Mr Černoch, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Before I respond to Mr Bendl and to the subject he has raised, let me also begin by saying that, at the beginning, not only I, but social democracy, rejects quotas. I think that the quotas that have been agreed are unfair in particular to the share of the Czech Republic and other states in why the refugee wave originated here. [[10.10 hours]] Because it was France and Britain, among other things, that pushed for the abolition of the arms embargo in Syria in 2013. It was France and Britain that supported air raids in Libya, which also helped this refugee wave. And it was Germany, above all, which, with its social policy, also contributed to Angela Merkelová's statements that the wave had increased. But we're talking about getting out of this. I'll follow up on my colleague Bendl. We will have to be clear if we really have to accept some of the refugees what the key will be. But I think the question is premature. Maybe she won't happen at all. After what we saw at the border in Hungary, Croatia and elsewhere, in the aggression of some refugees, I cannot imagine that if they reached their destination, they arrived in Germany, that someone would eventually be able to move them against their will to another state. I can't imagine at the reminiscence of the past, how German soldiers with machine guns load these runners into trains and they go east. I can't imagine it, and I think that after we know what the mechanism for this practical transfer is, we can figure out who to hire. But I think that maybe this question won't even come up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mr Černoch, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Fiedler. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Just be quick, so I don't hold up other co-workers. From the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, which is on the website, it is one of the points - imposing obligations on a State that does not want to accept such persons may constitute a breach of the principle of sovereign equality of states and, at the same time, an intervention in their political independence guaranteed by Article 2 (2) of the Treaty. 4 Charters of the United Nations. So this is the attitude of the Home Office that gives us, I think, a very real chance for us to succeed in this lawsuit. To the possibilities of how we can defend ourselves. There's two of them. Submission of an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union and factual failure to fulfil the obligations arising from the two proposals adopted in connection with the risk of bringing an action by the Commission against a Member State. There is, of course, a risk, but I think that the risk must be taken in the interests of the safety of Czech citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u49	Thank you. Now, with Mr Fiedler's point of fact, and Mr Bendl will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u50	For the first time, I asked Mr President to delete my application for a factual remark, but I will now respond. Just Facebook MP Okamura decided to read his contribution here until the end in the context of factual remarks. So even though he comes and declares I will respond to the previous speakers, he will take his prepared speech and read it to us in a factual note. Well, just cheap posts on Facebook need to be supplemented. But why did I sign up for a point of fact? I do not know if my colleague Jandák here - I agree with this, Mr Jandák, through Mr President, that the government should have left with a mandate. But we, as the opposition, were not the ones who interrupted the emergency meeting so that no resolution could take place. And to Mr Benešík through Mr President. Of course, once again, I really think that the Chamber of Deputies is more important and that if the Prime Minister went there with the mandate he presented, he eventually presented it differently. We have said compulsory rejection of quotas, but we have said that we accept quotas voluntarily. I think that the citizens themselves have assessed whether or not they respected this resolution of your committee, respectively. the wishes and will of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u51	Thank you. I do not see Mr Bendl's factual remark, he does not have it, well. Now, therefore, the factual point made by Mrs Němcová. [[He's jamming the point of fact.]] Well, now I do not see any factual point and I have the first priority right here, Mrs Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset of my contribution, allow for a summary of what the Chamber of Deputies has already done in the form of its resolutions, then some comments on the developments since these resolutions, and I would like to conclude by presenting to you in more detail the resolution that we have proposed and sent to all the Members' clubs for discussion. First of all, allow me to address the gunfight that has just taken place here on what mandate I am responding to Mr Jandák and responding to Mr Benešík, Mr Fiedler. To all who talked about whether or not the government had a sufficient mandate to negotiate quotas at the Brussels Summit. Ladies and gentlemen, she's had it since February 12th. On 12 February, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution stating in paragraph 4: 'The Chamber of Deputies rejects quotas for the reception of refugees in individual Member States of the European Union'. If I can put an end to this unnecessary debate about whether or not the House has given sufficient mandate to the government, I believe that this text is clear and we do not need to continue this debate. The Government, Prime Minister, ministers had a clear mandate from 12 February, a mandate given by the House, which, I confess, was then also confirmed by the Committee on European Affairs, which continued in this context and repeated sufficiently to the Government to act within this mandate. The resolution I am referring to is adopted on 12 February in point No. 1: "We take note of the government's information. " There's no need to elaborate. Point No 2: "Asks the Government to keep the House informed of the positions it will advocate at all foreign negotiations dealing with security and immigration policy." Speaking of which, President Petr Fiala. Unfortunately, by not taking this resolution as seriously as it would have had to, at the beginning of each meeting, the government did not ask to present its position to the House, its information on what the development of this issue was, so it forced us to do so with as extreme, marginal solutions as the use of oral interventions to receive any answer from the government at all. I mean, point No. 2 of our resolution of 12 February was not fulfilled by the government because it did not keep the House informed of the positions it would defend in foreign negotiations. Point No 3: "We impose on the government on 12 February to send humanitarian aid from the budget of the Czech Republic in refugee camps in Jordan, Turkey and other countries where people flee Syria mass. " We also wanted to know the answer if the government agreed to the debate, because we know that it raised some funds. We're wondering exactly what the original budget was, where it moved. To whom, how much, where and under what conditions money has been transferred. So what is the implementation of this budget? We did not receive this information, point No. 3 of our resolution has not been met by the government. Point No 4: "We reject quotas" - I have already mentioned this. We've seen the development as it was. We must say that there is still point 5 when we call on the government to keep it strictly informed, to pay attention to the BIS reports on the security risks arising from the financing of Islamic fundamentalism in the territory of the Czech Republic. The public part of the 2014 BIS report says: The biggest risk in terms of the Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, has become returnees from conflicts that fought in the ranks of the Islamic State or the Front of Aid. These are radicals with military experience, contacts in international jihadist networks and usually by motivating terrorist attacks on the territory of their home countries. In 2014, the BIS investigated several cases of foreigners who worked on the territory of the Czech Republic with varying intensity and who had reasonable suspicion that they had gone to Syria to participate in the fights. In addition to the occurrence and activity of these individuals, the BIS also paid attention to sympathizers from the Islamic State or other ideologically similar terrorist organizations. The conclusion of this report is that, according to the conclusions established by the actual investigation and the knowledge obtained through inter-ministerial and international cooperation, the BIS considers the free movement of such persons in the Czech Republic and the Schengen area to be a serious security risk. I am quoting this report because it concerns paragraph 5 of our resolution of February this year, and I hope that the government is continuing to pay attention to similar reports, and that it adopts conclusions in these reports so that the risks contained in the reports are eliminated as far as possible. [[10.20 hours]] In point 6 in February, we say that we support the free movement of persons within the Schengen area and reject the proposals to limit it, while supporting the common practice of the European Union countries to enhance the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area. Even on this point it can be said that it is not fulfilled because the opposite is happening. In essence, Schengen's internal space is closed, and it is the reaction of a part of the European Union to an uncontrollable influx of migrants. At first, France did so at the border with Italy, the crossing in Ventimiglia, but this step did not go beyond the strong criticism of European institutions, European bureaucrats, European politicians, but, at the time that Hungary took a similar step, there was serious criticism on his shoulders that this cannot be done. Similar measures are being taken by Germany, Austria, and I could continue. While Schengen's external borders remain as a leaky sieve, it is completely unprotected, transparent, and its security plans are merely spoken of, just as countless billions of the European Union's budget flow into it. Bottom line... Sorry, I would still forget about paragraph 7 of the resolution, and that is that we are asking the government to strengthen the security features of the migration process. Rather, I noticed from the media that the government is preparing some action, rather concerning some regime at the border. I would like to emphasise here what Mr Petr Fiala, President of the ODS, has also said that the ODS is proposing to tighten sanctions for smuggling, which is one of our small contributions to solving the problem at legislative level. Therefore, if I look at the seven-point resolution of February this year, I must say that the government has not fulfilled this resolution on most points. It had a clear mandate to negotiate to reject quotas, although I understand that it was decided by a qualified majority at the meeting of the Interior Ministers, but in the next part, when the government could at least hold the floor that it had given to citizens, when it had no commitment to it here in the House, because it did not allow the proper continuation of this meeting, which was initiated in June, it could at least keep its word in the sense that it would bring the matter to an end and that it would therefore join Slovakia today and Hungary in the present case. This government has announced, and for reasons unknown to me, it has given way to this position with great ease and incomprehensible ease. I also have here the resolution of the European Committee of 11 June 2015 on which Mr Benešík spoke, following the resolution of the House, I have here a motion for a resolution which was already prepared on 18 June, where the House wanted to give the Government a mandate, but also because of the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies and because the Prime Minister tolerated the fact that the members of the government coalition were shutting down so as not to reach the relevant treaty, this resolution could not happen. Just a few more notes on the quotas. It's just a small overview of what happened in this area in the meantime. In April 2015, Europe's leaders stressed the need for volunteering at their emergency migration meeting. However, later, the European Commission proposed a mechanism for compulsory redistribution. On 29 April 2015, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the refugee crisis, which reads as follows: The European Parliament calls on the European Commission to introduce binding quotas for the distribution of asylum seekers among all Member States. Translated into an even simpler language, it means this: the European Commission has decided that there will be mandatory quotas, and the leaders have told it that it does not think that there should be mandatory quotas, so it has found its way by ensuring the preliminary approval of the European Parliament with a resolution which is not fully binding, but is very useful if necessary. On April 29, 2015, this trap shut down and the European Parliament nodded to it - I will not say here which European Member from the Czech Republic voted on this is a matter for individual political parties. For us, I want to say that Jan Zahradil voted against both paragraph 8 and the overall resolution. 16. 6. The Council of Ministers of the Interior in Luxembourg says: There has not been an agreement on compulsory quotas, 55 per cent of the countries in which there are at least 65 per cent in the Union, i.e. the qualifying number, and thus no such numbers have yet been available in June of this year. Then the European Commission and all the responsible took a vacation, and they probably watched during the holidays as the ships sail to Europe's mainland, and they did nothing at all. In September 2015, the Council of Interior Ministers in Brussels - mandatory quotas adopted, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Finland abstained. At this point, it must be said that Minister Chovanec defended the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to reject mandatory quotas, the problem is that the Prime Minister did not hold it, when the Prime Minister met the Prime Minister in Brussels one day or two days later, who was to raise at least this topic, he was to announce the position of the Czech Government as defined by the mandate of the Chamber of Deputies, and unfortunately he did not. So we are at the lawsuit that hangs in the air because Slovakia is left alone in it. I remember well the night we learned that we were overvoted on the issue of quotas and Poland's position. Everyone tried to interpret this attitude somehow in their own way. I myself have seen the main motive for Poland's negotiations in that Donald Tusk is the President of the European Council, that, as such, he cannot allow his country, Poland, to be the main opponent to what these European bureaucratic-political structures offer, and that sufficient pressure has been put on him. And now I don't want to say if there are any promises, because I don't know anything about it, and it would make no sense in this discussion. However, Poland has acted in a way that we did not like, and the Czech Government is now acting in the same way when leaving the ship within the meaning of the V4 arrangement, which at first wanted to be in agreement, wanted to reject at first the compulsory quotas en bloc and also talked about sticking together until the end, i.e. the action. It is clear that, technically speaking, it has been followed by a qualified majority at the Internal Ministers' meeting, but it is also clear that there is a reason for the action, and I see that the reason is that national security and sovereignty have been threatened, and that should be decided by the court, because mandatory quotas are nothing but a violation of sovereignty at a time when the State cannot decide who, under what conditions and in what number it accepts in its territory. The debate on quotas also includes how senseless the debate took place within the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I cannot now grant the wishes of the honourable Mr Koskuba, who would like us not to blame each other here for what happened, but unfortunately, it must be said that the government has brought enormous chaos into this reasoning. At first there was talk of quotas in the sense of yes, it's going to be 1,500 refugees. Then, at the request of President Petr Fiala in the Prime Minister's interventions, he says vaguely: I will not tell you the number, but it could be something like it was at the time of the Balkan crisis. From this we can conclude that it is a number somewhere between 15 and 18,000, Minister Dienstbier talks about 15,000, Minister chovanec tells him that he does not know whether he has such a large apartment or where he has taken the number, European Members are losing their news that they know well how it is, that it is already agreed and cooked, that the number is about 7,500 refugees for sure, but that the 15 is more likely. [[10.30 hours]] Not only did the Czech public move in this mess, but so did we, and when we wanted to know the clear answer to the number, the Prime Minister said that he wouldn't just tell us the number during the interview. If the British Prime Minister can say a number he is considering, if he can say a number to the premieres of other European countries, it is absolutely incomprehensible to me that the Czech Republic cannot say more precisely given the capacities it has. To the quotas, I'm going to say that this is such a popular EU instrument, because if she doesn't know where to go, she always comes up with quotas. Let us remember that it was about quotas for women, whether in politics or in their representation in business, in business, and whoever objected to it, he paid for a strange type of weirdo who hinders undisputed progress. Refugee quotas are brought to the limit of absolute immorality because, on the one hand, they harm refugees by treating them like things, with balls in some lottery of destiny. Those people don't know which country they're going to be assigned to, what her mentality is, where the country is, and I'm going to leave it out of the way that they don't even know what the weather is like here in the winter. But individual states are also damaged because their sovereignty is clearly violated. The EU's fragile cohesion in this case has been hit irreparable, and I believe that it would have to be a miracle for responsible politicians to recover within Europe. Let us remember that the referendum on the Lisbon Treaty did not help either. When the Nizozemec said no, they were forced to vote again until they did. On the example of Greece, which is pouring money into a black hole, it is clear that we would have been forced to vote like this for as long as the European Commission would have pushed its way. I think these steps mean that Europe has fallen asleep fatally, underestimating the refugee crisis, and putting its citizens to a test that cannot go well. I would like to mention here the aspects arising from Australia or Spain's experience. As you know, Australia faced a similar situation years ago as Europe is now experiencing. To the shores of Australia were crowds of refugees, mostly from Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Burma, and Indonesia served them as transit countries. And the Australan decided: First, to drag ships with refugees from Australian waters back towards Indonesia. Secondly, placing asylum seekers in reopened detention centres on the islands. Third, she said that anyone arriving in Australia on a refugee ship would never be able to settle there. I understand that this was mostly about economic migrants, that we are facing a more complex problem, because in the case of Europe it is also about people where there is no debate that they are fleeing and protecting their lives from desperate conditions, from wars, from war-cracked countries, but these examples of Australia or Spain, which could also serve us in 2006. The Španěl say: without discussion, the most effective measures to deal with illegal migration were the immediate systematic repatriation of those who arrived in the Canary Islands. So much for whether Europe can take at least a partial example of the events that have already taken place in the world on a similar matter. Now allow a few words to be said for funding. I have deliberately concluded this, although money is always part of any solution and it is also necessary to talk about them openly. The first thing that needs to be mentioned, and we consider it very dangerous, was that President Fiala spoke about it, that in the geyser of ideas that convict European elites from chaos, inactivity and inability to solve the problem, one idea is that quotas make any sense at all, unite social benefits so that migrants do not encourage them to go to richer countries than poorer countries. For example, Denmark provides migrants with CZK 21,600 a month, Germany provides free food in reception centres, above CZK 3,900 a month, and this sum grows up to CZK 5,800 a month after three months, for each child CZK 2,500, after granting asylum or after 15 months of waiting, the refugee receives around CZK 10,800 a month. The state also pays him accommodation and heat costs. Switzerland provides a monthly social allowance of CZK 29,600 per person. I understand that Switzerland is not a member of the EU, but these figures, compared to the minimum wage in the Czech Republic, which is CZK 9,200, also say something, especially that it is totally inappropriate and immoral if in some countries support refugees is higher than the minimum wage in other countries, in EU countries. As a second argument, which could guide us in our thoughts, I had a table drawn up that places the world's countries according to gross domestic product per capita. It is data for 2014 from the International Monetary Fund and a total of 187 countries are being mapped. Among them the Gulf states, i.e. the rich states, which mostly refuse to receive refugees, although they are culturally and historically far closer than the whole of Europe, these states are at the top of the list: Qatar is 3., United Arab Emirates 8., Kuwait 23., Bahrain 32., Saudi Arabia 34. The Czech Republic - for information - is 42nd, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Malta, for example, from the old European countries behind these countries are Arab. From the new countries, virtually all of them, in terms of GDP per capita, are behind these Arab states. The question is, then, how is it that rich states culturally close, historically close to these life-threatening refugees are not helping, and how is it that we Evropan are constantly being pissed off at the lack of humanity from the obligation to take care of this part of the world. It seems as illogical to me as if, facing the impending crisis in Ukraine, which will certainly escalate, we asked the countries in the Gulf to address this issue instead of us. I think it is quite clear, and I do not wish it, I hope it will not happen, that if the situation in Ukraine does not develop well, they will provide assistance to those Ukrajinec who will leave, especially European countries, and it will certainly not be the part of the world that I am talking about, which refuses to help people in their quotes. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] While we are still talking about money, we need to say a few words about the EU budget, which four fifths of the current seven-year spending plan for 2014-2020, is roughly a trillion euros, so three quarters are intended to finance projects in individual countries. And it is known that they are very controversial projects -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u53	I'm sorry, Madam. I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down, and in case you have a need to say something, go to the lobby, let them understand what they say. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u54	- that they are projects, I am talking about projects, I am talking about wasting EU money, and I am talking about the fact that the EU is not enough to show that the migration issue is a number one priority for it. If it were priority number one, it could not happen that the financial evaluation will take place somewhere in the 10th or 15th row and will outrun expenditure on the administration itself, which, as has already been said, amounts to CZK 645 million a day in that seven-year budget period. If the EU found 86 billion without a problem. The euro for the 3rd rescue programme for Greece, while it is not at all certain that this Greek Marxist government will implement the concluded agreements, is one billion from the EU budget, which is announced as strengthening aid for refugee camps in Turkey, it is clear that there is little. It cannot meet the announced objective of stopping refugees outside the EU. [[10.40 hours]] The one billion - we may like it or not - simply cannot hold them there and we must count on them to continue on our continent, while all serious data from diplomatic, political and economic circles say that the detention of these migrants outside the European Union, providing them with humanitarian aid at such a level that they can at least live there with dignity, is seven times cheaper than dealing with these cases only when they come to the European Union. I would set another example of the costs of the European Union of one billion, and that is Germany. Although it is true that Germany has put itself at high cost, which will now cost it, because Angela Merkelová, by opening her arms and inviting everyone to come, and then the trouble that sees that it is not enough to cope, is trying to dissolve by means of mandatory quotas for all the other Member States, Germany is considering spending CZK 10 billion on this issue this year. Against this, let us put one billion European Unions here. There are currently current figures where Hungary says it will spend CZK 32 million to help minors who are unaccompanied. Perhaps this also needs to be openly named and stressed, because this aid should really be directed towards the poorest, the most threatened, those who cannot help themselves. The fact that there are young boys here who, instead of defending their homes and fighting against those who subvert their country in the ground, are running here and relying on high welfare, is not normal and we need to talk about it so openly. In Austria, a heated debate broke out yesterday at the moment when a secret report was made that Vienna would issue 334 billion. CZK in the coming four years to address the refugee issue. Although the Ministry of Finance denied this report, it was quoted by the respected radio and television station ORF. Please, these are some things that needed to be mentioned either from a political point of view, an economic point of view, or a comparison, for example. With Australia or Spain, what happened in Europe, what we can take an example from and what is rolling at us. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, given that the Chamber of Deputies was given a mandate in February, which it failed to fulfil, it is not easy for me to say this because there are no more serious things than this question, we have come up with a constructive solution, and we thought that if the Chamber of Deputies then adopted 155 or 150 votes such a resolution that the government would take this resolution very seriously and consistently implement it. [[Government?]] Yet we repeat this step. Yesterday, the Civic Democratic Party MP club sent out a motion for our resolution, which has 10 points, to individual MPs, in part the resolution was presented by Mr Petr Fiala, President of the Civic Democratic Party in his opening speech. And I, if you will allow, would like to present this resolution, given that it has been presented in writing to you, in a detailed debate where we will address these proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, let me thank you for your attention. I want to assure you that what I said in February, what I said in June, what I am saying now, is being led from my side and by my colleagues with a clear idea that we are facing a huge risk, that there is no point in playing who will fight in the House or in the political struggle before the forthcoming elections, let's say the next regional. Please, that's completely meaningless. I think our citizens would appreciate it if they knew what the real prospects are, what will be happening in the coming months, how the government will deal with the mandate it will receive and what ways it will choose to protect as much as possible the sovereignty of our country and the security of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u55	Thank you, too. I'll read the note I received. Today, from 11.30 to the end of the meeting, for personal reasons, Mr Václav Votava apologizes, today from 12 am to 15 pm, for personal reasons the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka apologizes, today from 12 pm to the end of the day, for working reasons Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes, on days 1. 10. and 2. 10. Mr Leoš Heger apologizes for the doctor's visit, and today from 11 to 13 o'clock, Mr Daniel Korte apologises for personal reasons. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Schwarzenberg and Mr Okamura have the first. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u56	Mr President, Madam, Members. If I am correctly informed, I am here in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, which has been elected democratically and is also governed by democratic rules. And now I've been listening all morning to how upset we are about being outvoted in Europe. It's uncomfortable. I'm against quotas myself, I consider them pointless, that's true. And let's also say that, in a good partnership, what you like to give willingly, if I'm raped, you don't see it as progress. However, we have been democratically outvoted and we are members of the European Union, so let us accept this instead of spending time here with a constant yelling, which will not help us at all. Yes, when we entered the European Union, when we signed the Lisbon Agreement and everything, we adopted certain rules of conduct in the European Union. Yeah, we just protested it, we were against it, but we were outvoted. Sorry, we have to accept this, too. We realise that the European Union is a democratic community and therefore insists on its rules. However, we could have prevented this if - that was my proposal last year - we had already accepted a sufficient number of the most threatened refugees from Syria, Yazids, Christians, etc., we would not have provoked quotas at that time. But we were just saying no no no...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u57	Your time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u58	We were building the deaf, so we provoked this. That's what I'd like to remind everyone here. One more little comment. The Minister of the Interior has recently tried to back up his Prime Minister with strong statements against the European Union, the Federal Republic and even in relation to quotas. I suggest you let this go. After all, social democracy is quite a democratic party. And I assure you that demagogues and party leaders in demagogy will always be more successful. I'm an old man, and I know that in this competition, the Democratic Party can't win. I remind you of what I saw.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u59	Your time, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u60	I only recall when Sarkozy in France wanted to be more radical than Madame Le Pen, added and won. When democratic parties in Austria wanted to be as renegade to foreigners as free-minded, free-minded added and kept growing on their voices. No, only clear resistance at first, not adaptation helps us. Please remember that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u61	Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u62	Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u63	For the record, if you sign up with a factual remark, I'm going to ask you to respect two minutes, because it's important that we measure everyone the same way from the position of head of the House. So please be considerate of your colleagues who respect this time. Thank you for honoring the Rules of Procedure. Mr Okamura and Mrs Němcová have also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the previous speakers. A beautiful gesture, which typically portrays the current crisis and the position of the European Union, was shown by a great ally of the United States, Saudi Arabia, who herself does not accept any immigrant, but has offered literally generous humanitarian aid in quotes to Germany. She offered to pay for 200 Muslim mosques for immigrants. The German government appreciated this gesture in quotation marks by proposing to punish immigrants with fines or prisons and threatens to take away their children for extreme views, and Mrs Merkelová personally has already arranged censorship on anti-immigrant contributions with the Facebook owner. Criminalisation, bullying and censorship of civil opinion - this is a great example of German advanced democracy and the flagship of the European Union. And I believe that Mr Dienstbier and other social engineers will find much inspiration here, how to enslave our Czech citizens as well. I repeat and call on the Government to stop rejecting the proposal of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD and to allow citizens to express their views in a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union in connection with the reception of illegal immigrants at the expense of social security for our citizens. You, Government, have betrayed the citizens of the Czech Republic, have approved thousands of illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic. Unlike Slovakia, you do not fight, so at least allow the citizens themselves to decide on the future in their own country. This government literally confuses democracy with dictatorship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u65	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. First of all, Mrs Němcová, after her Mrs Putnová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u66	Thank you. I just have to translate what's going on here in the House and those who are watching us. Mr Okamura has written a speech, and because he is afraid that his turn will not come to him, he is taking advantage of factual remarks and always deducts two minutes from his speech. Just so the audience can understand it, if necessary. My point concerns what President Schwarzenberg said. The debate on quotas is necessary and important, and I am defending all those who have spoken here in this debate, and especially because the second step that is being prepared is the approval of a permanent over-budget mechanism that will permanently introduce these quotas into the principle of decision-making within the European Union. Today we hear the Prime Minister, who says that his main objective is for this permanent mechanism not to be adopted. We have failed to do so in the area of quotas, and if we do not stress enough what actually happened when dealing with those quotas, what risks are at risk, it is clear that the salami method, which is started by the allocation of quotas in one time and then becoming a permanent mechanism, will be brought to an end. That is why I am defending this debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u67	Thank you, Madame. Now, with Mrs Putnová's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u68	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There are not many situations where the words of politicians really matter. I think that the questions of accepting or rejecting immigrants really are such a fact that we should carefully weigh the words. The Czech Republic has no experience of receiving immigrants in the past period, because the last time we were confronted with this fact was in the 1930s. Memorials don't live. At that time, at least for a short time, we became an oasis for refugees from Spain, Germany, Russia. And since the memorials aren't alive, I understand to some extent the concern of people with the new reality to deal with. However, I would like to say that at the moment it is important for politicians to respect the words and, if possible, not contribute to the hysteria that is often quite purposefully fueled in public space. It's not just the attacks that are of a physical nature. It is, of course, also a verbal attack on people and the haunting of our Czech population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u69	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Zahradník and Mrs Němcová will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u70	Mr Vice-President, it will indeed be a factual comment on some of the previous speeches. The migration crisis already has its first political consequence due to the outcome of the elections. In the Upper Austria elections, so far unshakable the People's Party, for many years ruling in this federal country, has lost 11 percent and, on the contrary, the extreme ultraright party of the Free, the successor of Haider, has gained 10 percent. This must also be borne in mind when we are talking about this migration crisis here in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u71	I thank you for respecting the time. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mrs Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u72	Very briefly, I must add or correct what Mrs Anna Putnová has said here, through you, Mr Vice-President. We also have this experience with refugees from the Balkans, and this experience is from the 1990s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u73	Thank you. Given that I do not see any factual point, Mr Benešík is now with priority right and Mr Černoch is next with priority right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u74	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, mass migration is, of course, a huge problem. It's been said here a few times today, and I suppose it's gonna sound a lot more than once. However, I want to focus on one of the aspects of this problem, an aspect of civilization, or if you want cultural. I am not questioning the fact that the numbers of refugees themselves are already causing concern. However, I add - everything can be even more complicated because of the cultural differences between a number of those who come to Europe and Evropan. Of course, this can also reduce the chances of their integration or assimilation. There's no need to go too far for experience. Just look at the neighbouring Germany with more than a two million Turkish minority. Originally it was about importing relatively cheap labor, but as German politicians say today - we thought they would make money and leave, but they didn't leave. After experience not only with this minority, the German government, especially the Chancellor, was forced to admit that multiculturalism failed, which undoubtedly led the CDU-CSU coalition to consistently reject Turkey's accession to the European Union. The KDU-ČSL and the other parties of the European People's Party have always been of the same opinion, even though Christian Democrats generally believe that it is necessary to help the needy and give everyone a chance to succeed. Or rather, that's why. Solidarity is only one of Christian values, or if you want European values. And it's hard to share values with someone who has completely different values and doesn't want to respect our values very much. On the other hand, however, we need to ask ourselves how much we really appreciate the values that we often have so bulwarkly planned to defend, to what extent we are still a Christian civilization and to what extent a cosmopolitan civilization that is cutting itself off from its own roots. Didn't aggressive secularism, caring paternalism, and selfish individualism replace old Christian values, such as justice, solidarity, and freedom? Is it not by chance that we have created a spiritual vacuum ourselves in Europe? A vakuum that Islam feels well and is about to fill? It is true that those who want to fight for values must also have them and must also live them. If we, and I think we're doing this quite successfully, we're creating this vacuum, we're cleaning out the space in value - we're doing it, we're not doing it for us, we're cleaning it out physically, we're not having our own children - then the vacuum will just be filled with something else, someone who has the children and who can fill it. But it's up to us. It's not up to anyone else. [[11.00 hours]] I just want to say to Turkey that we here are afraid of the temporary placement of several thousand refugees who may or may not be Muslims. I remind you that Turkey has nearly 80 million inhabitants. It is comparable in size to Germany and according to the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 99.8% of the population report to Islam. If Turkey joins the European Union, and its membership is very strongly supported, for example. author of the anti-immigration petition, former President Václav Klaus, but also political parties, e.g. ČSSD and ODS, so Turkey will gain political influence. Or maybe they did. I don't know if they've changed their minds. But Turkey will gain political influence, it will have its MEPs, it will have its judges in the European Court of Justice, it will have its Euro Commissioner and, of course, Turkish citizens will be able to move freely anywhere in Europe, they can settle there, they can run in local elections, they can vote in those elections, and the same applies to European elections. It's just a drawing of this. KDU-ČSL has always reported for something else. It has always claimed Europe's cultural legacy, which is why we have always refused entry, for example. Turkey, which undoubtedly has a different culture, to the European Union. But since we are aware that he is a very important partner who can stabilise and must stabilise the nearest neighborhood of Europe, we have always offered him a privileged partnership. That means we are not kicking Turkey out, but we are aware of the risks that its full membership would just bring. And precisely because we have always been aware of this, we do not now have the need, like some others in the migration crisis, to shout loudly to stop it!, because of course we were aware of this very long ago and systematically, systematically we are promoting this. Emphasis on value anchoring has always distinguished Christian democrats from liberals. It was enough for them that the Turek would carry out reforms and be sufficiently capitalist, and therefore they could probably create a good counterweight against them already so much socialist Union. Today, liberals are against quotas, they are totally rightfully against quotas, but I ask where they were when the candidate status of Turkey for membership of the European Union was decided. Many people are upset that the European Union has decided to allocate these refugees to individual states by means of mandatory quotas. It bothers me, too, and I will therefore suggest that this House should support the efforts of the Slovak Parliament to expose this decision to the Council of Ministers so-called. yellow card. The yellow card is a mechanism that has just been brought in by the Treaty of Lisbon, which allows national parliaments to speak up in the European Union. But as the classic says, anger is not a program. It must be borne in mind that, as much as we criticise this particular decision of the European Union, we cannot do without the European Union to tackle the migration crisis ourselves. We will not defend our own borders, we will not stop the flow of migrants in the countries where they come from. We will not have enough finance and the strength to look for solutions at global level. What KDU-ČSL has been promoting from the outset is to seek answers to migration issues across the European Union, such as that which will not only address the consequences but, in particular, the causes of this problem. We think the European Union has taken it from the wrong end. The quotas were not to start, they were not to start in the territory of the European Union, but, on the contrary, they were to start by stopping migration, they were to start in the countries of origin of these refugees. Now the European Union has such a plan, but we continue to disagree with the mandatory quotas that come first in it. But we agree with everything else. The fight against human smugglers, the rapid return of economic migrants, the detention zones at the Schengen border, the investment in camps in the regions of these conflicts and the strengthening of the stability of these countries. Next, we propose a number of other measures, other own measures, of which I will mention at least the most important ones. Europe's asylum law, which is also bound by the Czech Republic, must be substantially amended. This was designed to receive hundreds, perhaps thousands of political refugees, not hundreds of thousands of millions of refugees. In particular, it does not allow effective and rapid return of illegals and economic migrants. Furthermore, before the European Commission began to consider redirecting funds from European funds to help regions of refugee origin, the KDU-ČSL proposed a discussion on the allocation of part of the money that falls precisely for the Czech Republic from structural and cohesion funds, to improve the conditions of people in these camps, because if refugees come to Europe, we will have to spend it in this way anyway. But, of course, much less effectively and it will be considerably more expensive than focusing on investing in countries of these conflicts, refugee camps in these countries. It's just a cheaper and more efficient solution. We also propose to find a safe space under the European Union's administration where these refugees could be placed, whether in the Greek islands or, for example, in Greece. Libya. We do not claim that we can solve everything or that the solution will be fast, easy and cheap. That's what populists say. But, as they say, the worst mistake is made by one who, in fear of being able to do little, does nothing. We want to at least do what we can, and we will be happy to cooperate with all those who come up with other constructive proposals to address this really very pressing problem. Mass migration is a big problem, but we have to deal with it, not haunt it. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few more comments on what the previous speakers have said. I very often disagree with Mr. President Zeman. But I also agree with him very often, and I think that we have similar views, in particular, on the problem of coexistence of different cultures in one territory. It's quite rare here, and quite a lot, I don't say 100%, I agree. But it is also good to remember that for example. in 1998 and 2002, when the current President was Prime Minister, who was one-colored, i.e. that, as they say, he had everything under his thumb, we were not in the European Union, let alone in Schengen, we had our borders guarded, and in the Czech Republic at that time he applied for asylum, he applied for asylum, of course, that these people here were actually several times as many, about 45 thousand. 45,000 refugees in four years. They were people, of course. from Chechnya, Macedonia, Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, but also for example. Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan. These are not Christian countries. Just a rhetorical question. I wonder what Mr. President did wrong then without me trying to pick on him, no way. But it has made it possible for us to have experience, and we must take advantage of that experience. We have to take advantage of that experience, because if we do something wrong again, the next generation may not forgive us. The second point, and I think it will be the last, is to the rich Arab states. I totally agree with what was said here. KDU-ČSL long-term, long-term calls for, perhaps three quarters of a year, for European diplomacy to address this through our diplomacy, e.g. through High Rep. High Commissioner, so-called High Rep., Federika Mogherini, to deal with this precisely with the rich Arab states, because it really doesn't seem fair to me that countries that hold the World Cup for billions of dollars build halls in the desert where they have ski slopes and confess Islam there, so they are unable or unwilling to accept their Muslim fellow brothers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u75	Thank you. Now another with priority rights, Mr Černoch, and also with priority rights, Minister Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u76	Thank you. I wish you once again, colleagues, good morning. I really think that this whole problem does not concern the left or right, that this is a problem that we should all be dealing with, because it is one of the biggest crises, if not the biggest crisis in the European Union. A crisis that can affect all states without exception. Just because it doesn't concern us today doesn't mean it won't affect us in six months. And when we look at the pictures that come from Hungary, the pictures that come from France, from Germany, I think none of us want similar things to happen in the Czech Republic. We do not want no-go zones, we do not want social problems, we do not want the situation to really develop in an absolutely radical way, when today, overall in Europe, it is more a matter of time when people take matters into their own hands, and I think that is the worst thing that can happen at the moment. Dawn as such has been trying to solve things on this issue for over a year, I think from the beginning of the House. Attention, advance warning. I confess that I do not understand the overall policy of the European Union, that they do not see ahead, that they do not look ahead, that they cannot count - and it is, as the Minister of Defence said here, they are people who really should know these things, they should know how they will evolve, and they have let this happen to these places where we are facing these huge waves of immigrants throughout Europe. Six months ago, there was talk of about 300,000 people coming to Europe, saying that it should be triple next year. Last month, the number was half a million people, expecting up to six times the number of immigrants coming to Europe for the next few years. And it's important to be perfectly clear that those who flee the war fleeing persecution are a fraction that up to 80 percent of these people are economically illegal immigrants. Laws should apply to all, and the system that works at this point, that these people are being brought to Europe, and only then is it starting to deal with what will happen to them, so is the system that will lead Europe to hell in general. Dawn as such really has priority in the fight for the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic, for our sovereignty, for the sovereign state, a state that will not allow itself to dictate the conditions that can put him in great trouble in the future. And all you have to do is look beyond the border. Whenever you look at the media, there are reports from Germany, there are reports from France, from the Nordic states, where, thanks to their democracy, great democracy, they get into a situation where they have urban parts that the police are afraid of even in broad daylight. And I'm sure we don't want that here. I think that it really is necessary to work forward, look forward and try to predict things, be prepared for them and not wait for them to happen, because then, as you can see from Hungary, they are very, very difficult to solve. And I think it's just lucky that Hungary came up with it the way it did, that they started dealing with things right away, they weren't waiting for it to grow to some monstrous size. They weren't arguing over and over again about how it should be dealt with, what they can't do, what they can't do. They just started dealing radically, and I think that we need to support Prime Minister Orbán in this regard, there is a need to support states that take this situation very seriously, because if they didn't take it seriously, we would be far worse off in the Czech Republic today. Dawn - the national coalition is fighting for the Czech Republic to remain a sovereign country, to defend itself against the wave of illegal immigrants, and I think we have worked very hard. We have submitted a law on churches that prevents the spread of radical Islam, we have introduced an asylum law that prohibits the granting of asylum to immigrants who commit a crime. We are calling for real border control, after the deployment of the army to protect the Czech state borders. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the government is rejecting our proposals, and I think now is the last chance for the government coalition to show that it is on the side of citizens and that it will fight the quotas for receiving immigrants, that it will not be pushed into a corner, that it will oppose this and that it will protect the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And not only safety, but I think it also concerns the economy, that it also concerns health protection, of course, because people who come from sub-Saharan Africa are not vaccinated, they have diseases that we are not prepared for. We therefore propose the following resolution: 1. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic not to respect quotas for the redistribution of immigrants and to accept voluntarily illegal economic immigrants. 2. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, like Slovakia, to defend itself against quotas at the European Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u77	Thank you. Then bring forward the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate so that we can put it to a vote. I note one point of fact by Mrs Nina Nováková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, by your means, to Mr Černoch's speech and to Mr Benešík's speech. Mr Benešík's speech contained proposals for solutions, which I think is very important. The same solution included the appearance of Mr Černoch. However, I believe that, particularly in Mr Černoch's speech, we have to defend the security of our citizens, and this shows me as another sentence: because immigrants are actually our enemies. Likewise, in parallel to this or at the same time how we must defend the security of our citizens, we must also look at how to integrate - and this is the issue of education - the question of all integration centres - how those who remain here who have the right to remain here, because they will obtain asylum from us, how to integrate them into our society, how to educate them so that they accept our culture. In this sense, I also completely agree with all those who do not want those who come here and accept the hospitality of our country to spread their culture here, but to accept our culture in Europe. TOP 09, its value tenatero at that first point contains that our culture stands on ancient, Jewish-Christian roots. And this is what we must pass on to those we are determined to leave behind. We must take steps to do this, and this is a question of education, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u79	I also thank you for respecting the time and now with priority rights Minister Chovanec. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u80	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to say that I very much appreciate this debate and that I consider it necessary, necessary and, in essence, very beneficial, because where, other than here, this debate should be conducted in depth. In the media, we glide on the surface, and sometimes some left-wing activists call me fascists, some right-wing activists call me a traitor, some coalition MPs feel I should be locked up for harassing people in detention facilities, etc. etc. etc. And where else besides here I can finally say my opinion without ending with one or two headlines in some media. I do not think it is necessary that we do not oppose the Federal Republic of Germany and the European Union at all costs when we feel that they are wrong. We are simply a self-confident proud nation who will perhaps tell his truths and his theories of which he is convinced. That means I have no reason not to tell our partners - and I stress to our partners - in Europe what our visions are, what our thoughts are and what we think. Unfortunately, when you look at the opinion of the Federal Republic of Germany on migration in the last two months, these attitudes vary greatly. They evolve in time, and the Czech view is consistent. [[11.20 hours]] And if you look at the Home Office's estimates, we've almost never been wrong. I was standing here six months ago, and I said there'd be quotas. Many people thought I was crazy, many media said what I was making up. He met for six months with six months and the quotas are on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two issues mixed up in this debate. One was 40 grand. migrants to be redistributed. Today is the debate on another 120 thousand, i.e. 120 thousand. plus 40 thousand, that's a new story, that's not 40 and 120, that's one thing. That means we've always taken care of the institute of volunteering, voluntary assistance. Of the 1,500 people, there's going to be 1,100 people coming to us, and we're going to work out an asylum procedure that either they get or they don't get international protection. This does not mean that they will remain in the territory of the Czech Republic. 400 other people to come are to come from camps outside the European Union and are to be integrated into Czech society. 400 people from camps outside the European Union. Otherwise, the Czech Republic helps in these camps 100 miles. crowns a year. We're the biggest sponsor of Jordan's camp, where we're 40 miles away. CZK helped build an electrical infrastructure. This is the way - to improve people's lives in camps outside Europe. Every euro we invest there will be returned to us a hundredfold. The estimates are that Turkey is costing 4 billion migration crises. EUR. This is a ridiculous amount compared to what it will cost the social systems of large European countries, including the Czech Republic. Fragment. It's a change. A primary agreement with Turkey is needed, and Turkey needs to be financially motivated to improve the living conditions of migrants, to make people live there in dignified conditions, and to give them the so-called home. over the hill. So that when this war is over, let's hope it ends someday, they can come home. Each of us would like to live at home. I'm sure I will. I love this country, and I don't want to leave it. With great distrust, I look at Russia's military engagement in that space, because military operations, which will only be in the format of other air strikes, will solve nothing. And in Syria, ladies and gentlemen, and let's just say how these things are, it's 7.5 miles. Syrians away from home. These are the internal migrants in Syria who, if they lose faith and hope that the war will end, Googl, as a server says yesterday, find Germany again, find migration in Germany again and head back to Germany. I was talking to a Syřan. He told me - I sold the house, I can't go back there. I got 5,000 for that house. EUR, before the war it would be 100 thousand, today 5. The man spent all his money on the smuggler, he's in the Federal Republic of Germany today, and he's unhappy there. You know why? Because he understood that he and his children would probably be second or third-class citizens. There will be great disillusionment. There will be great frustration. That's what I'm afraid of. And I'm afraid that this approach is not to prevent the emergence of fascism and brown movements, but to help him. That's the fear I have. Russia's military engagement has another side of the coin, and that is that Rus have, of course, a great influence on Ukraine within the separatist military and paramilitary organizations. And if Rusko is able to stir up this fire - I'm not saying it's planned, but it can happen - we have two outbreaks of migration. Both of these migration outbreaks will end, ladies and gentlemen, in Europe. And if it's migration from Ukraine, where it's 1.5 miles today. Internal refugees, so the Czech Republic will become the target country. As far as our detention facilities are concerned. We hear a lot of criticism on them. The former right-wing governments have reduced our refugee facilities' capacity to 30 percent. But logically, there was no reason not to lower them. There was no migration wave. The original 100 percent were at a time when there were wars in the former Yugoslavia and the Czech Republic, i.e. in the short term, had 3.5 thousand. migrants in total. If we add up the entire migration wave, it was somewhere between 15 and 20 thousand, but one time we had 3.5 thousand. people mostly from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And at that time, we had a much larger capacity for detention facilities. To date, we have 800 vacancies in our asylum facilities. We are able to return these people to Austria, we are able to proceed exactly according to European law, the Dublin regulations and other things that European law requires. And don't be mad at me - those who criticize our position in Europe that we should have kept quiet. We are a country that fulfills its legal obligations and has its own opinion. What in God's name is wrong with that? The European Commission has already gone into the quota system in the past. I suspect the project was called Eurema. He was in Malta. This was the system where Malta was seized by a strong migration wave, and even then Europe tried to get those migrants against their will to go to other European countries. Exactly - against their will - the project went bankrupt. And we fear and believe that this system will fail on exactly the same principle. We must realise that a person who comes and fulfills his legal obligations to register for a hotspot in Greece, Italy or Hungary should remain there until his relocation. But 98 percent of all people in these areas want to go to the Federal Republic of Germany. And the Federal Republic of Germany will hold 30 per cent, and the 70 per cent will go to other countries. That means 70 percent of people will be reallocated where they don't want to go. Let us also answer the question of whether this migration wave, where the Federal Republic of Germany - and yesterday it was unofficially confirmed by the Bavarian Interior Minister, came to Germany in one month. people that this migration wave will bring with it the second migration wave, the official, legal one. And that's the merger of families, ladies and gentlemen. Over 60 percent of the people coming are men. Those men are coming alone. Most of them have families. Most of them, according to European law, will want to merge the family. And currently 98 percent of migrants from Eritrea and Syria gain international protection in European countries. In our country, when one of these countries asks for international protection, he gets it. We are acting under European law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a country where half a million strangers live. We are not xenophobic countries. We are a country where the number of people applying for international protection is increasing. But they're not Syřan and Eritrejec. They are Ukrajinec, Kubánec and other countries. We're not a country that doesn't want to help these people. But we can't hold someone here who just doesn't want to be here. There is some basic charter of rights and freedoms, there are refugee contracts from the 1950s and 1960s that are valid. And we gave the European Commission, our partners - and again I say to our partners - our position, including legal decay, including ten questions, and we said: before we vote, please give us a nice answer. Well, I don't know when the vote was cast, it's been a few days, we don't have answers to this day. Otherwise, the Slovak position towards the lawsuit is a bit based on our legal analysis. As far as quotas are concerned, I think we're in the third period of the compulsory quota game. I'm going to Luxembourg on the eighth day at the meeting of the Interior Ministers. And wonder for the world, the mandatory quotas are back on the table. So after 40 grand. Optional, 120 thousand. There is a debate again about a permanent relocation mechanism, which should only be included in the equation where the percentage of expression for each country will be added for each year. This can work. It's a German model. The Němec have a relocation within their territory, within their respective Länder, within each municipality. The municipalities must accept the migrants, take care of them, etc. etc. But there is a unified social system. Single labour market system...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u81	I'm sorry. Colleagues in the left side of the hall, please keep it down. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u82	I'm afraid it's on my own. We're ready to work with the Němec. We're ready to help our partners. We've declared it several times. But there must be, ladies and gentlemen, a will. We offered to help the Maďar, we offered to help the Řek, we offered to help the Ital. Three months ago, we offered Ital money, technical means, people. The answer is zero. The Greeks don't talk to us at all. We offered Maďar police officers, eventually took large-scale tents, which went to Hungary within a few days and still serve there today. We're ready to help. We are a country that is willing to help its partners. We know that the problems of Germany, Italy, Greece, Hungary are our problems, but we just don't blindly nod at it when by chance someone bigger thinks otherwise and we don't think so. [[11.30 hours]] This is simply not how European politics can be done from my point of view. If this House thinks otherwise, let it remember us with a mandate, which is supposed to sound like this, that we should nod at everything, smile at everyone. But then I don't know if I want to go. We talked to many of our partners, whether they were Angličan, let it be Commission Chief Mr.Asselborn, who said the nota bene the day before in Prague that there would not be a vote. Our contradictions with Tomáš Prouza - I talked about this with Robert Kaliňák when I was in Slovakia two days ago to see the Ukrainian-Slovak border. And with all the responsibility I'm here to tell you, if all Schengen border countries pay as much money and attention to their borders as the Slovák, we don't have such problems. I had to take my hat off before the border on the Slovak-Ukrainian border was secured. Really take off your hat. So I asked my colleague Kaliňák, who was with me in Brussels, he also spoke to the Polák. Nota bene and I talked to them. And he said to me, "We didn't know the Polish position until the last moment. We knew that they did not know that they were debating this, that they were not convinced, but the definitive position was expressed at the Council meeting when they took a ten-minute break. It was 50 minutes, and then they called Warsaw to wipe off their position." And the final decision was that Poland had, in my view, taken a cosmetic adjustment to the resolution, from which it seemed to fall 54 thousand. people who will then return there. That's the 54,000 that were supposed to allocate from Hungary. The Maďar said, "Sorry, but we don't have 54 grand to date." The resolution will be meaningless. So the only modification that was there was a table of 120 thousand. It's turned into about 66. Poland therefore agreed to this. But the devil is hidden in detail and there is still a resolution that says 54 thousand. the Commission will then divide it into a table, so from my point of view, the resolution was still the same, only we can cosmetically pretend that we did not divide the entire 120 thousand, but only part of them, but it is not true. On the basis of this amendment, Poland voted as it voted. I think there is no need to abandon Visegrad's cooperation, on the other hand, we never agreed to proceed with lawsuits. Slovakia declared yesterday, but they don't know exactly how it's going to sue, and the finance and justice ministers have been tasked with writing the lawsuit. I think that now we need to focus on a duel that will be the eighth, and that is a duel for a permanent relocation mechanism, the percentage that we should be assigned and that we should accept. If I were convinced that the Czech Republic would marry some migrants, try to integrate them and solve the problem, I would say "let's do it" from this place. But I am convinced that the quotas will not work, that we are delaying the solutions that are necessary, and that we are just spinning in a circle of solutions to a problem that cannot be solved simply and simply. If you look at our friends from the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria, the Rakušan say "we will defend our borders by force." I was at the border yesterday. And there are almost no cops on the Czech-Austrian border anymore because they are being transferred to other borders. This means certainly the Rakušan will not defend the border between the Czech Republic and Austria. In addition, Mr de Maiziere said yesterday: "We are going to de facto follow the Hungarian pattern, we are going to create a corridor on the German-Austrian border, but perhaps in other countries, even though there are almost no migrants from the Czech Republic to Germany." However, this means that we will close the entire border, including the green one, which Germany has not done for decades at the border with Austria. I don't know if it's technically possible, but without any technical security, fences and other things, I can't imagine it. And then it will mean the only thing that those dozens of migrants who are currently in Austria will be looking for any way to get to Germany another way. Then the only way is through the Czech Republic. Our exercise yesterday with the army, and I want to thank colleague Stropnický for the excellent preparation and engagement of the army in this matter, the army and police are beginning to speak and cooperate as one man, he wants to say to me, he had one single task: to practice the synergies and speed of deployment of the army on the border. We're gonna have to respond. We cannot then afford to get the migration current through us because it would mean tens or thousands of people who could try to cross the Czech Republic. We are ready, we know what we are doing, and we respect the letter European law. If everyone respected Dublin, if they respected the protection of their borders, this problem is not so extensive. If we do not deal with these things in the countries of origin and in the countries around us, we simply are not able to deal with this in Europe. We need diplomatic offensive, return policy. Last year alone, 50,000 migrants came from Kosovo to Germany, almost none getting asylum, yet they are not being returned. More than half of the people coming are economic migrants. We're not able to return them. We do not have readmission agreements with many countries that are safe, and these countries do not take back their citizens. We need a huge diplomatic offensive of the European Union towards countries where we have spent European money for years and we do not want much of it. So now we have to at least want to sign the readmission agreements or stop the financial flows. We need an agreement with Turkey, we need an agreement in Libya to find a political consensus. Libya is a window into Europe. Of course, the way through the Balkans is far more complex and important today. This road is already on land today, and if the Turek aren't going to help us improve people's lives on their territory, then the migration flow isn't going to end. And let's face it, this is the migration flow caused by war, military clashes. But in the future, migration flows can be expected because of drought, food shortages, water. Look at the Nile basin, Egypt, look at the population increase. Many young people today, according to the media, are stopping fertile soil in the Nile Delta. In a moment, they may decide to go to Europe. And Europe must make it clear that it is helping the needy, but on the other hand, that it will defend itself, that it has the will to survive, and send a clear signal to the world that those who need help are welcome here, and those who are not supposed to be here will be returned. There's nothing left-wing or right-wing about it. That, ladies and gentlemen, is just the implementation of common sense into politics. I would like to do such a policy when Parliament and the government allow me to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u83	I thank the Minister for his words. With priority law, there would be Mrs Chalánková, but I have two factual points first. First, Mr Jan Zahradník, then Mrs Jana Lorencová, with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u84	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I am pleased that the Minister also mentioned yesterday's exercise in the South Bohemia and South Moravian Region in addition to the noble topics. I would like to join the recognition of the Army and the Police of the Czech Republic for wanting to be prepared, when even those who decide about them are unfortunately sometimes half blind. I think the police and the military would also deserve support from the state budget to make their readiness really appropriate if there were some of the things we fear. There's one more thing I'd like to remind myself of. I think that we should also not forget the integrated rescue system and its components, i.e. the Fire Rescue Corps, the medical rescue service and the network of hospitals, which could be very useful if there were a more massive flow of migrants into border regions. These are components that are well consolidated, well active and even their possible preparation in the form of some exercise could be appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u85	I thank Mr Zahradník. With another factual remark by Mrs Lorencová, Mr Benda will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we have been listening to theoretical arguments all along, because that is all, if only, what will happen, for example, if refugees really settle here, and we do not think about whether they will ever want to return to the countries from which they are fleeing. I'm saying this because if we see those streams of young, healthy men with smug muscles, smiling, between them, there's a woman with a kid in their arms, about every 20 years, so please tell me - shouldn't we be worried that they're gonna drop their roots here, bring them here, which allows them the basic charter of human rights and freedoms, bring their families back here and never come back from where they came from again? They're men, if they're men, if that's what you call them, who have a gun in their hand to defend their country. How is it that they run and leave parents who get rid of all the property, pay their way to Europe, and that man, the fugitive, is not ashamed to say, Yes, they stayed there. It's me, young, healthy, who was supposed to defend my country, I'm with you. Take care of me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u87	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová, for her point of view. With another factual remark, Mr Benda, Mr Pilný and Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u88	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not do this often, but I must very much appreciate the speech of the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec. It was very good, very convincing. I'm just gonna ask my colleague Huml not to talk to him right now. [[Mr Huml is speaking to the minister in the government bench.]] However, I would like to add one more question, which has not been answered completely. In an interview for Respekt at the beginning of this week, Mr. Secretary Prouza, besides saying that we knew about Polák' position, says another sentence that I think is much more crucial. Czech Republic, respectively. the Government of the Czech Republic has decided that it will be overvoted and will go into a mechanism where it can be overvoted, that is, to the Council of Ministers of the Interior, not to the level of the President. So I'm asking you how it is: either we have a state secretary who's making it up, then I think he's got nothing to do there, or it was a deliberate decision from the start, but then everything else the government says, what the Prime Minister says is just making muscles inside the Czech Republic and knowing that I'm going to be outvoted, because I admitted that I'm going into a mechanism where I can be outvoted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u89	Thank you. Sorry, Minister, Mr Pilný with a point of fact. [[Minister Chovanec wakes up and goes to the microphone.]] Then Minister Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, while I have a discussion with Minister Chovanc about the future of the Czech Post or about eGovernment, sometimes our opinions differ. But I would like to thank him very much for his contribution today. He was very pragmatic, very realistic, very factual and predictable. He's talking about things that necessarily have to happen. Minister chovanec is responsible for the internal security of this state. And I think if he does his job the way he does it so far, I feel safe here. To do what needs to be done. I think there is a need to address the causes and not the consequences of military operations and so on. That's inevitable, but it really solves the consequences. You need to break the smuggling nets. If we can somehow deal with terrorism, then somehow we can also deal with this problem. Europe is desperately slow in this. We need to close down the resources that lead to these war operations. Someone's buying oil from the Islamic State, somebody's funding it, they're buying weapons for something. These people are on our halfway field, and they need to be identified and prevented and repressive measures taken against them that make sense. That is how these causes can be eliminated, and there is a lot to be done, and in that Europe is really slow, and there is a need to push politically, legislatively and otherwise to do so. But I repeat again: I liked the contribution of Minister Chovanec very much and I am glad that we have such an interior minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u91	I thank Mr Pilný for his words. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister, with a factual remark from Mr Černoch. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u92	Mr President, I forgot, and Mr Pilný reminded me: of course the fight with the smugglers is important. Today, 30,000 people participate in this bloody and crazy business, and they need to be caught, taken away their money and shut down as much as possible. That's just where we have to go. The Czech Republic doesn't stay away and we've picked up over 50 smugglers over the last period. One was Čech, the other are mostly either Syřan, Maďar, even Swedish citizens. So we're working on it, and here we are very effective in cooperation with the surrounding countries. On the question of Mr Benda, through Mr President. I think State Secretary Prouza explained that in his press release, which he published yesterday, where he demented the part of the Respekt interview. I can say one thing for myself. Even if we knew we'd be outvoted, we'd be outvoted. We did our best to keep Visegrád together. If the Fin had stayed behind and we were able to do two or three more countries, and there it seemed that the Baltic states would at least stay behind or not support it, the blocking minority would be there. But she was never really born. We've been trying to get her. What I'm telling you here, I told my partners in Brussels. We gave the accompanying resolution after the vote, where we explain our position, where we explain that we are a country that does not defend itself, but does not want to help in matters where we think it is not a solution. Please read Mr Prouza's statement nicely, I think it is available somewhere, and I think it follows that he did not authorize the interview in Respekt, and he does not report to the parts you are talking about. At least that's how I understood his assholes yesterday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u93	Thank you, Minister. By doing so, we have exhausted the factual remarks and move on to the priority rights. First of all, with Mrs Chalánková's priority right, Vice-President of the TOP 09 and starosta, then Vice-President Filip, followed by Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Much has already been said here, the debate is rather volatile. I would like to sign up for us, for TOP 09, for some of the sentences that have already been said here, but they are also from among us. I wanted to say that the European Union and the people of the European Union feel very threatened and very frightened. What could it be? Isn't the problem inside, too? Inside all of us? The civilization of the European continent is very weakened, it is very weakened by the fact that the population has lost consciousness of the values on which this civilization has grown, of the values of Christians, of the values of Jews, of the values of the ancients. Since these are values that are not just a comma or a sentence in the history books, but they are values that are permanently valid, I guess we need to get back to them. It must be noted that there are values that cannot be voted on. And here I turn to all of us here in this hall. The European Union and many institutions of the European Union, but also we, members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, may often be pushing laws in good faith that harm the citizens of this country and harm the citizens of Europe. These are laws that have already left the awareness of values that are not voted on. Once after the war, the concept of protection of fundamental human rights was created. This concept has now become a pasquil. Nowadays, we are voting on facts that have no connection to real fundamental human rights. Citizens are afraid. Citizens have lost their will to live and do not know what the purpose of life is. We don't have enough kids. And it's not just that we're miserable. On the contrary. I don't think there's a link between the wealth of the country and the number of children. It is indeed one of the reasons why civilization in Europe is weakened. It lacks the will to live and the ability to defend really fundamental values. Citizens may know. That's how we need to realize it, too. If there are other civilizations that have these fundamental values, even though we defend respect for human life, and it is not all other civilizations as own as we do, then we need to know this because if any other civilization is more predatory, the continent and our civilization loses the right to its existence. TOP 09 doesn't want to go back to what was, what was said, what didn't say, what did or didn't do. We are here to offer a helping hand to the Government of the Czech Republic to propose our motion for a resolution, because we appreciate the Government of the Czech Republic, but we also see that the Government needs a strong mandate in the form of a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[11.50 hours]] That's what we're ready for here. I will present this resolution in detail in a detailed debate because it is quite extensive. I will brief you on the fact that we would like to draw attention to the fact that key decisions which may have a major impact on individual states of the European Union or which individual states might feel existentially threatened are to be taken unanimously. And that decisions relating to the management of massive migration flows are such key decisions. I believe this will help the government in further negotiations. We will express our opposition to the introduction of permanent mechanisms for the relocation of refugees to and within the European Union on the basis of the mandatory redistribution key, so-called. quotas. We want to express our support for such an approach by the Government of the Czech Republic and, in general, solutions that will lead to a reduction in the overall migration pressure on the European Union, will lead to the preservation of cooperation within the framework of the so-called 'EU'. the Schengen area and the maintenance of the free movement of persons within it. We want to express our support for such an approach by the Government of the Czech Republic and, in general, by measures that will result in the elimination of procedural shortcomings in the places where migrants first enter the territory of the European Union countries without undue delay. - I'm not gonna read the whole thing until in a detailed debate. - And we want to call on the government to pursue a policy that would focus heavily on the objective causes of migration. This resolution will be extensive and I want to hope for all of us that it will help the government in its further efforts to protect citizens both in the Czech Republic and in the European Union as such. Once again, I would like to appeal and return to what I have said here. When such bills appear, and I do not want to put a patent on reason, I want to ask you, put away pride and humbly realize that there are things that cannot be voted on and that this Parliament cannot change by its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u95	Thank you, Vice-President Chalánková. Another with priority rights is Vice-President Filip. Before I give him my word, an apology: Mr. Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes today for business reasons within 15 hours. And Mr Běhounek apologizes today from 12 o'clock also for work reasons. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u96	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will try to return our negotiations to rationality. I've been waiting for the Home Secretary's performance. I would like to thank him, at least for some answers, for his proposals, but also for his position at the European Council. But I have to say, the topics we're dealing with here today are much wider. They concern both our asylum policy and our action not only here in the Chamber of Deputies, but, where appropriate, European solutions to asylum policy and our ministers' actions at the European Council meetings, and, where appropriate, negotiations with our MEPs in the various factions of the European Parliament, so that we can get to the point that Europe will act in a uniform way in this situation. This is not just about the Czech language, the problems in education. This, of course, also concerns the question of moving the responsibility of one state to another. It is important that we clarify how we will stand up to any changes in our family law. How do we look at it when we accept people here as asylum seekers who legally have, for example, more wives, what their inheritance right will be, etc. It's just all reality. And we're obviously not ready for that. It will also be much more difficult to handle things that concern whether we will be able to deal with any accommodation of those who will be admitted here either on a voluntary basis or in other ways to avoid an immigration ghetto. And I think that during the first migration wave in the 1990s, at least partly succeeded, although not entirely. In order to be rational and fulfill what I have said, I will allow myself to make a motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies in general debate and, in a way, to make the situation easier so that we can then just vote on it in a detailed debate. I'd sign up for him. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies should express great concern that even after the meeting of the Heads of Government of the Visegrad Group has not succeeded in preventing decisions on quotas in European institutions that distort the fundamental pillars of the construction of an integrating Europe. (b) that the agreement that was made in Prague and which was concluded in Visegrad Four under the Presidency of the Czech Republic was not respected both by Poland but, in particular, by the Czech Republic at the next meeting of the Prime Ministers following the unsuccessful meeting of the ministers of the interior of the European Union countries. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies should ask the Government to prevent the application of quotas for the allocation of migrants to the Czech Republic by all legal and diplomatic means available. In order to impose on the Minister of Foreign Affairs the Government of the Czech Republic that, on the ground of international institutions, in particular the UN, the European Union, the OSCE, but also NATO, seek to address the causes of the migration wave, thus contributing to a peaceful settlement of fighting in Syria, but also in the entire Middle East area, including disputes in North Africa. (c) to impose on the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior in order to insist on the performance of external border protection tasks under the Schengen Treaty in negotiations in the institutions of the European Union. (d) that the government should continue to work to secure the state border of the Czech Republic if the protection of the external borders of the European Union fails. And for e) to present to the Chamber of Deputies the Government of the Czech Republic a report on the readiness of social, health and school systems to enter an unidentified number of persons without knowledge of the Czech language and not involved in insurance. These are the basic things that we consider necessary for the House of Deputies to adopt after this meeting, on the one hand, for the Government's mandate to negotiate at European level and, on the other hand, for us to realise the priorities that await us in discussing some of the bills. We often drown in the ballast of things that seem rather marginal to us, and we don't deal with things that are essential and that are neglected in the long term. Because the appearance of some convinced me that putting the blame on others or saying that someone else caused it is simple, but looking for solutions at the moment, seeking the cause and removing the cause is, in my opinion, much more important than dealing with only the consequences. Because if we don't remove the cause of the migration wave, the consequences will only deteriorate dramatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u97	I thank Vice-President Filip for his contribution. With another priority right, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek is registered. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u98	[["I'm not a minister," he says.]] Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am pleased that the House is dealing with this problem, because mass migration is undoubtedly one of the biggest, if not the biggest, problem of the current European Union. This means Europe as a whole and the Czech Republic as well. Because, of course, the overlap is also outside the territory of the European Union. But do we really know what we're facing? Do we know the dimensions of this threat well? Can we look for real solutions, or are we groping, wrong, and rather than a pragmatic solution, we're just scared? Or are we naively calming down? I'm not suggesting a patent on reason, I'm not saying I know everything and I'm gonna solve everything. I think if it was that simple, someone else would have come up with it by now. On the contrary, I want to say a few facts, a few numbers, a few suggestions, so that we can think about these things together and find a real solution. [[12.00 hours]] Firstly, we need to realise that this is the most massive migration since World War II and we have about 60 million refugees here. This is a huge number, and it is absolutely clear that even at its best, Europe cannot absorb more than one per cent of that number in a short period of time. That's obvious. So the first conclusion may be that we simply cannot solve the problem by inviting all the runners here and then somehow showing up. For one thing, we would not help most of them, and secondly, we would not help others as they imagine, and we will have enough problems with it when many of those who come here are surprised that they did not come to the dream paradise, but that reality is far more cruel, and they will still be frustrated, which can bring further problems to the future. Maybe we couldn't even help ourselves if that number was so enormous in a short time. It's not selfish, it's reality. It's just clear that if you're going on a boat and it's flowing into it, we should plug a hole first, not have to make a mouthful and try to pick out the water. The second thing that this huge mass, often human misery and suffering, fear, violence and injustice, has gone to find security and prosperity elsewhere only to a lesser extent, including what the Minister has been talking about, is that it is just a warm-up round and that we can expect a much larger mass of people who are moving. Of the 60 million, roughly 20 million are on the move and 1.8 million people have applied for asylum so far. So far, about 40 million people remain internal refugees and live either in their own country, many already live in countries that have virtually de facto ceased to exist, and are still there. The question is what to do, and we have been offering this solution for a long time, helping those local institutions, possibly. non-profit organizations so that they try as hard as possible to keep these people in place so that they don't go on marching. Once they're on the march, they're very difficult to stop at these huge numbers. Indeed, millions of desperate people who come to the fenced border are hard to stop, and I cannot imagine the humanitarian disaster when there are hundreds of thousands of people at the Schengen border. If we're gonna throw food over that fence or something. That means we have to do our best to make sure they don't go on that march at all. It's not surrender, it's confession of fact. We are able to defend borders in some capacity, but if migrants are more than those who protect and guard borders, that is essentially unsolvable. It needs to be said, and it has been mentioned here that we really consider these quotas meaningless, they will not work, they are useless, and they are basically a way of denying subsidiarity and sovereignty within the European Union. And I think that this mechanism will be very difficult to force people who will be redistributed where they do not want to stay in the long term. I agree with what has been said, the different social system. If they receive such contributions in Germany as they are in other countries of retirement, it will be very difficult. It will go as we used to with some of our citizens, that they will come back to us once a year and get their benefits paid back, and then they will go back to Germany, where they will live with their families, with their comrades, live together for those German benefits that are considerably higher, and then improve. Are we gonna keep these people here by force? Will only welfare really hold them? I'm a little skeptical about it. And we have not really received answers to these questions yet. It is true that so far only a part of these refugees has been discussed, but when 8,000 refugees are flowing a day, the quotas will be next and another. And I agree with the Minister, the most important thing is that this does not become a permanent mechanism. We didn't vote for quotas, we consider them meaningless. Let's see what happens to the Slovák with the lawsuit. I was giving this option as one of the options, I said it was one of the possible options. In the end, the government decided not to use it. Unfortunately, I wasn't at the government. I represented the UN Prime Minister in New York. However, it is obvious that even though this resolution has been adopted, its practical implementation will be very difficult already because if we say it simply, it is difficult for migrants to get into these quotas, so we will see. I understand Germany. It's overloaded, it's complicated, they're really at the edge of their options. But to think that the way it is in Germany, that they will really redistribute it with their system, we will somehow divide them all, that it will work throughout the Union, I think, is a deep misunderstanding. We're trying to explain it to them that it's a little different. I will try to explain it again in 14 days with Chancellor Merkelová, explain it to other colleagues from the European People's Party, that this does not have to work and that, above all, it is not a solution that it is just an effort to lighten up. It is, of course, a question of internal policy, but even in Germany, the situation is starting to get a little worse and it is no wonder, because although they are very solidarity and they are used to several waves of those arriving, whether it was the question of our former compatriots, whether it was the question of migration from the former GDR, whether it were the people who came in 48th from us, in 56th from Hungary, in 68th from us and others, Jugoslávec, in which case they are really beyond the border that Germany can handle. On the other hand, they should also be aware that they cannot make certain statements that motivate migrants to get to them. So we must make it clear that instead of quotas, we need to plug that hole, the influx of refugees coming here. Indeed, it cannot only be ensured by borders. If there are so many refugees, or if there are so many migrants, there will be so many refugees, then even the fence won't stop them. We're not used to that. Anyway, that's why we need these people not to get to the border at all. We must return economic migrants quickly, i.e. simplify the procedure, make hotspots, start splitting them up, distinguish them, we need to know where we're going to return them. The problem with the Australian method is that, and we discussed it with our ambassador in Australia, that the Australian situation is indeed very different from the European one and is not entirely applicable in our country. There are many differences, and many are already beyond international treaties. So the situation is a little different. And, above all, we don't have contracts with countries to go back to, and that's one of the big problems we have right now. Next, it's a matter of price, what it all costs. Germany expects to spend perhaps ten billion euros to protect the border. We would need about 2 billion more crowns. We have to spend the money, because we certainly don't want migrants wandering around here free and under surveillance. I want to stand up for our cops, our soldiers, all of them, our security forces, because they work well and they need to be supported because they matter a lot now. I want to stand up for those who work in capture camps with us because their work is not simple and is often demotive. The fourth conclusion, which is better, is to put money where the cause arises in countries where refugees are now, to the countries from which migrants come, to try as much as possible to make money spent effectively in these countries, because it is also considerably more usable. The point is that sober estimate is the effectiveness of this money 10:1, which means it is significantly cheaper to help those who need help, where they are, than to bring them here. [[12.10 hours]] Five. We must draw the Union's attention to the fact that migration is not only from Africa and the Middle East, but is 1.5 miles in Ukraine. internal displaced persons and that we will be the country of destination in the case of Ukrajinec, and we must prepare for them to come here, and we must also tell our colleagues that we will then not want redistributive quotas. We'll be willing to deal with these people ourselves. Another thing is that we really need to prepare for the arrival of these people, because the length of our borders is 2,000. km and coast border 66 thousand. km, so it is also very difficult to secure our border, and it is simply science fiction to close Schengen, let alone when we realize that even though we were outside Schengen, even though we were outside the EU in 2001, thousands of people came here illegally and eventually in 2001 it was only about 18,000. people, even though there were boundaries. We would really have to build a border like the Iron Curtain, and I think that, for example, in Greece, Italy and many other countries, it would be rather difficult. The sixth conclusion is that only limiting the influx of refugees, those who are now outside Europe, is that this is the best solution, and we must therefore move our attention outside. The debate on quotas has often paralyzed the debate on how to deal with causes. Although I can understand my colleagues wanting to lighten their quotas, it doesn't solve anything. As far as stabilisation is concerned, I think that we really need to talk to Russia, it is also important to think about the fact that some European politicians have already said so, and I think Chancellor Merkelová has said that we need to start talking to Assad. So I am not thrilled about this, however much we should start working with Russia, so all the risks that are coming cannot be ignored, cannot in any way legitimize what is happening in Ukraine. We have to say no to that clearly. And finally, seven, we've got 1 mile in the last 20 years. children in the Czech Republic less. The rest of Europe is similar, the Němec are even worse. This leads some policies to consider that migration could replace or resolve this demographic deficit. On the contrary, I think that we can supplement selected people with the professions we want and people who want to be here and either want to come back or want to assimilate, so of course we can welcome them here. cizinec already have a huge share in the Czech Republic, but we do not see them that way because they are Slovák, they are people who are culturally close to us, they are other nations. We barely remember Vietnamec as strangers. In any case, it is absolutely essential for us to create conditions for people not to be afraid to accept more children into families, especially those who work, especially those who are expected to raise their children to work. That is why we are not fans of flat-rate benefits, we are not fans of benefits as such, and it makes more sense, and that is why we pushed through it, and I am glad for that to reduce taxes or taxes to parents, not to give flat-rate benefits. Another thing we are proposing is to help as much as possible to ensure that Czech families or citizens of the Czech Republic are not afraid to bring these children into the world to take care of them, because we assume that the cost of assimilation of these citizens will be zero, which many immigrants cannot actually expect. So it's seven facts and proposals for a solution, and there's a lot I haven't said. Many can be found on our website. We really do this honestly and rationally as far as possible, and we try not to abuse emotions. Of course, people are afraid, and they are quite rightly afraid, they are afraid. And if we don't discuss them and if we don't look for solutions and we don't need to talk about these things here, then we're gonna give room to those who don't want democracy either, they don't want freedom, they just don't want it from the other side. And we hope that we want democracy and freedom. We want democracy to continue here, and at least I wish it because I have two small children and I want to live in the Czech Republic and beyond. For those who have not listened carefully enough, I will sum up my performance in two sentences. The solution to the problem lies neither in the Czech Republic nor in Europe, the solution lies in the Middle East and Africa, where the problem arises. And the solution to demographic deficit is not migration, but the promotion of proper education for children in Czech families. Clearly, one who does not think of others has no heart. He who doesn't think of himself has no sense. So let us address the problem of head and heart migration. It is very important that something else is solidarity, something else is help, but something else is suicide. In my opinion, we are obliged to help others, even Christians are obliged to set the other face, but they are not obliged and must not set the other face, we must not set the face of our children, we must not destroy the future of this country. I would take the liberty of reacting very briefly to what my colleague Chalánková said here. I agree, the truth cannot be voted. But for that to happen - it can, of course, happen in the fact that even true things can be outvoted. On the other hand, there's a Constitution after that, that's what the rule of law is for. And by doing that, I'll follow up on Mr. Vice-President Filip. What will now be discussed, what will be discussed in the coming years, is the rule of law. If we tolerate intolerance, we're done. If we do not tolerate the intolerance of xenophobes from here, we cannot tolerate the intolerance of those who come here. If they come in here and say, "We don't like it, we'll change it," then don't come in here because they're not welcome here. If anyone comes in here and insults him, it offends him, but that's no reason to change it. And now the question is how to change the overall legal framework so that we remain truly liberal parliamentary democracies, and where to find peace, so that we do not allow our tolerance for intolerant and unbearable anti-democratic forces, people, to destroy democracy. We must defend democracy and we need a legal framework for that. I think that we will have to change many legislation and we will have to tighten it up and we will have to better define it, and that will certainly not be an easy task when security forces and law enforcement authorities will have to move faster and more clearly. And finally, what Vice-President Filip said about having more women here legally. I think that our former colleague here, too - I didn't see him here, and I don't think I'm gonna have him here for a few years - he had two women legally, only one wife, one mistress, and he lived with them publicly, and the children were watching each other. I think our legal system can handle it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Now I have two factual points. With the first factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa, Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, I will be very brief. I would like to thank you for the discussion so far, especially for the matter, but I have one problem. I understand that individual factions want to promote their view of migration waves, security, etc. But, you know, you're filing a motion for a resolution for every faction. I do not know what will come out of this in the detailed debate and in the vote on individual resolutions. But we are unable to agree on a joint resolution either. We should agree on a common foreign and security policy precisely against the criticised European Union. And you know that the European Union has a common foreign and security policy. And you know where it's going. I would like us to agree on these important issues of our country's defence and security at least at some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u101	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With another factual remark, Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u102	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, thank you for the floor. We've been hearing a lot of theories all along, listening to words that we can't agree with more than the overwhelming majority. I would like to hear how many migrants have crossed the borders of the European Union during the time we are sitting, and how many percent of them have had some real reason to do so, how many have been authorized and, above all, how many of those who come to our country also have documents that warrant them to cross our borders. I'm afraid there aren't many. But I'd like to know. But I would also like to know, because it is millions of people who marched in a relatively short period of time, who was it, who pressed the starting gun, who provided them with information that Europe, which, from their point of view, is probably weakened, who it was, who pressed the starting gun, and who gave them information about moving towards us, towards Europe. I, like others, of course, read articles that deal with this issue and find conflicting information. And I think that knowing this is extremely important. And I would also like to know how many percent of the really needed, which are hundreds of millions, maybe billions, how many percent of the really needed - I am not talking about the muscular guys who come to us, young and full of spirit - how many of the really needed we are able to save. [[Time.]] How many of them are we able to provide help. I'm afraid there won't be a large percentage. Anyway, it's a different civilization. [[Time.]] And sometimes it feels like we're seeing, like, two centimeters in front of each other, and we should see a little further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u103	Thank you, ma'am. With another factual remark, Mr Marek Černoch, followed by the Prime Minister with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u104	I listened very carefully to the appearance of Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, and I must say that I am confused about one thing, and how opinions are turning around. A few months ago there were opinions, not that nothing happened, that everything was okay, that we were supposed to accept. I have recently noted the opinion from the Minister of Finance that we will not resist quotas so that we do not lose subsidies. So what is the situation today? How is this situation viewed today? And I'm very glad Prime Minister Sobotka is here. I think it's in confusion because there's been a lot of information on how to deal with it, what we should be dealing with, that we should actually proceed together, which I totally agree with. And it's the thing that Dawn's been calling all along. Let us move together as the whole of Europe, because this problem concerns all of us. My question to the Prime Minister is, and I would be very happy to answer it, how the Czech Republic will stand up to the compulsory quotas, whether it will accept or not accept quotas and defend itself with the European Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u105	Thank you, Mr Černoch. The Prime Minister has the option now, because I'm giving him the floor with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u106	Hello. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to apologise for the fact that I could not be present at the opening stage of the debate of the Chamber of Deputies on migration. I was in the industrial zone of Triangle in the Ústí Region this morning, where the construction of a new factory of Nexen Tire was launched today. This factory should employ more than a thousand people in the Ústí Region and the investment that is coming is more than 22 billion. crowns that will be privately invested here over the next few years. It is the third largest investment in the history of the independent Czech Republic, which is why I felt needed to be present as Prime Minister. I also used this to discuss with investors how the whole investment is going, if everything is okay. And I have good news for all of you - investment is going well, production should start in 2018, that means two years from now, and work there will find more than a thousand people, including people highly qualified. And now I get to what is being discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, which is a migration crisis. So from Korean investment to migration crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the progress of the Government of the Czech Republic. Several major negotiations have taken place since my last report. I therefore recall that I also appeared in the previous part of the debate, which was then interrupted. Specific and practical steps have been negotiated to respond as a Member State of the European Union and as a country that respects European values to the current crisis situation. In this context, I would also like to inform you about the course of my business trip to the United States of America, because its scope was directly linked to the resolution of the causes of the current migration crisis facing the whole of Europe. Last Tuesday, 22 September, a decision on the relocation of 120 thousand was adopted at an extraordinary meeting of the Interior Ministers in Luxembourg. persons from Greece and also from Italy. In the absence of consensus, the decision was finally adopted following a qualified majority vote. The Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania have opposed it. Finland abstained because of its disagreement that the decision was not adopted in the form of consensus. I do not consider such a procedural procedure, which was elected at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Interior, to be happy. This procedure is disappointing for me as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. In my opinion, a strong solution, overvoted in such sensitive matters, is very imprudent. This may have a negative effect, among other things, on the perception of the European Union among citizens, and it may also encourage an increase in extremism and an increase in intolerance. In my view, the decision taken does not respect the June European Council agreement on consensual decision-making and does not constitute a systematic step in tackling the migration crisis. The subject of the decision is a temporary and exceptional relocation programme of a total of 120 thousand. asylum seekers, which should be held for two years, in particular for the benefit of Italy and Greece. It was originally intended to help Hungary, but Hungary was eventually excluded from this programme at its own request. According to this Decision, the Czech Republic should relocate 1 591 people in its territory in the first phase, less than 400 people from Italy and about 1,200 people from Greece. [[12.30 hours]] Denmark, Norway and Switzerland are also likely to be involved on a voluntary basis in this programme, thereby reducing the established number of applicants to be allocated under this single programme to each Member State of the Union. The relocation programme I mentioned will apply to those asylum seekers who arrived at least six months ago and no later than two years after the entry into force of this measure. A total of 66,000 people will be relocated from Italy and Greece, namely more than 15,000 people from Italy and more than 50,000 from Greece. For the remaining 54,000 persons whose distribution has not been decided, a measure of flexibility is envisaged. The first option is that these people should be relocated from Italy and Greece in the same proportion in the second phase of the programme, after one year. The second option is that within one year the European Commission will assess whether an adjustment to the relocation mechanism is necessary. The reason for this re-evaluation may be, for example, a situation where a Member State is facing an emergency situation due to a sudden and large increase in the number of migrants due to a sharp change in migration flows. In such a case, the European Commission will be able to submit proposals to the Council to amend this Decision, and the Member State in difficulty should be able to assist other countries in further relocation. As I have already mentioned, the Czech Republic has voted against the adoption of this proposal. The vote of the Minister of Interior was entirely in line with the mandate approved by the Government of the Czech Republic. The results of the vote will be respected by the Czech Republic. I would also like to refute unfounded speculation as to whether we have actually done our utmost to prevent the adoption of a permanent mechanism for redistribution of refugees and the adoption of quotas. At the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on this subject, I explained why we held a summit of Visegrad premieres in Prague. We have made this clear to Europe in advance of our common position. We have pointed out that we do not consider quotas to be the right solution, and we have explained and put our arguments on the table. On the basis of this mandate, our diplomats have held a number of negotiations before the start of the European Union Home Affairs Council. The Ministry of Interior has prepared an analysis on the basis of which we have sent a request to the President of Luxembourg to explain a number of aspects of the proposed quota mechanism. The essence of our questions was the assumption that the quotas would not work. However, the countries supporting the quotas wanted to push for their proposal at the cost of the force vote. We wanted a decision by consensus or a move of decision to the level of prime ministers, where we could once again fight for consensus. With such an instruction, the Interior Minister left at the European Council meeting. Until the last moment, the Luxembourg Presidency hesitated whether it was reasonable to allow a vote. Finally, the pressure of the states that rushed to enforce quotas fell. The Czech Republic is still convinced that mandatory quotas will not solve anything. We have damaged relations within the European Union within a few weeks of the heated discussion of them. In my opinion today, Europe needs a sensible approach, based on cooperation between all Member States, on the predictability of behaviour, on compliance with agreed rules. To that final solution, this past discussion of quotas has not shifted us in any way. In our situation in which we are now, we will not succeed with rash and hasty steps, which we would only do on the face that we would only do on the effect. We will not succeed in the politics of hysteria and political isolation. The only solution is a rational and constructive debate and cooperation based on common European values. That is why we have decided to respect the outcome of the negotiations of the Interior Ministers, even if we voted against it. We will not go the same way as Slovakia, we accept the conclusions of the Ministerial Council on the redistribution of 120,000 people and from this position we will continue to negotiate as the Czech Republic. I would like to stress that in recent weeks the issue of the current migration crisis has in no way ended with the negotiations of the Interior Ministers and Heads of State. I do not think it is possible to see this decision as something that has resolved the European migration crisis. We're just getting started. We have real work ahead of us. Thousands to tens of thousands of people each day still cross the borders of the European Union and, as a result, the border of Germany. We cannot be excluded from the debate on further action in this situation. In such a case, the Czech Republic would really stop defending its intention. We should not take steps that will weaken our negotiating position within the European Union in the future. On the contrary, the current results show that this position must be strengthened by the Czech Republic. From the original proposals, which included a permanent redistribution mechanism for the Council of Ministers, we were able to move towards a one-off solution to the situation. Thus, the Council of Ministers for Home Affairs and Justice has not approved a permanent European redistribution mechanism. The permanent mechanism has also been removed from the draft conclusions based on the pressure of the Visegrad Four countries. The principle for the distribution of 120,000 refugees has been approved, where the Czech Republic and several other states have failed to enforce the principle of voluntaryity. The decision that has taken is a bad decision, and the Czech Republic has done everything in its power to prevent it. Quotas do not move us to deal with the real causes of the migration crisis. The day after the meeting of the Interior Ministers, the extraordinary meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Member States of the European Union on migration took place in Brussels. In the field of asylum policy, a debate on its fundamental change has been launched at European level. The rules of its operation will change, and we as a country must have an interest in engaging in negotiations on these changes so that we can influence their future form. As a government and as representatives of the V4 state, we have repeatedly declared that we support the search for a common European solution. I am also glad that the negotiations of the Heads of State that took place at the European Council were carried out in an effort to look for concrete pragmatic solutions to the current migration crisis. I would also like to point out that if someone claimed or suggested that the premieres could reverse the results of the meetings of the Interior Ministers, he had poor information on how decisions can be made at European level. At the level of Heads of State, at the level of the European Council, the conclusions are formulated by agreement and formulated by consensus. This means that there was no theoretical possibility for the European Council to change the decisions of the Interior Ministers on this matter, simply because it was excluded from reaching consensus on this issue. In fact, the discussion on quotas was not on the agenda of the European Council. We have talked about the real priorities that we, as the Czech Republic, have been promoting over the long term, the restoration of external border control and the resolution of the causes of migration in the countries of origin. Before the start of Wednesday's summit, there was also a meeting of the premieres of the Visegrad Group. After Poland finally agreed on the Council of Interior Ministers, unlike the rest of the V4, with an extraordinary relocation measure for 120,000 people, I believe that the V4 Group's procedure was renewed. I consider the Polish position at the meetings of the Interior Ministers to be a reflection of their internal political situation, not a change in our partner's overall position on the current problems of European migration policy. From the outset, we have the same attitude towards what action Europe should take to tackle the current crisis. As regards the results of the extraordinary European Council of 23 September, the outcome for the negotiations is a statement by the Heads of State or Government that contains key priorities in the area of migration, including all the proposals that we have put forward as V4 countries. [[12.40 hours]] These include, first and foremost, the renewal of the control of the external borders of the European Union. We have agreed on concrete measures in the form of the role of the various agencies that may operate in this area and the increase of funds in the Union funds. The final statement by the Heads of State also envisages the assistance of the Member States in properly registering refugees in the country of first entry into the European Union so that legitimate refugees can be distinguished from economic migrants. The establishment of hotspots in Italy and Greece, which we have called for, should take place on the basis of the conclusions of this meeting by the end of November. Another priority that we have agreed on is intensive cooperation with third countries. I find it extraordinary that we have agreed to help the countries of the Western Balkans to manage migration flows, because so-called. The Balkan path has been unfairly underestimated for a long time. The aim of the European Union should also be to improve cooperation with Turkey in the area of migration. There was an agreement to increase funds in the Trust Fund for Africa, with the European Union being also significantly more active in negotiations to stabilise the situation in Syria and Libya. The third priority that we have agreed on is to improve the conditions of refugees in Syria and the surrounding area. Each European country, including the Czech Republic, will increase its contribution to the world food programme. More extensive assistance will also be provided to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It is not possible to allow these key institutions to run out of money because they are caring for several million people who have fled the war in Syria. Europe will also provide greater assistance to Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey in managing the refugee crisis. At this point, some 4 million refugees live in countries neighbouring Syria, and it is important that we pay our utmost attention to the countries that have given them refuge and look for all the ways to help them. The key at this point will be the quickest and most effective implementation of all the measures agreed upon by the European Council. I have repeatedly stressed that, in addition to the catalogue of measures, we also need a clear timetable and a clear plan for how each step will be implemented. The first opportunity for control will be at the meeting of the Council of Interior Ministers on 8 and 9 October, and the implementation of these measures will be evaluated by the European Council, which will meet on 15 and 16 October. In connection with the conclusions of the European Council negotiations, we have also decided to strengthen our own real ability to effectively ensure border control within the Czech Government. Yesterday there was a joint exercise of the Army of the Czech Republic and police with a focus on border protection in case of reinforced migration wave. The exercise took place in the area of the former Dolní Dvořiště border crossing on the border with Austria and 500 police officers and 300 soldiers joined the event. Neighbor Austria as well as e.g. Today, Bavaria faces the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees, and the migration routes are still changing. We are on the outskirts of the main migration route, but also in these days and in these hours they are trying to get a part of the migrants towards Germany through the Czech Republic. Like our neighbours, it is crucial for us to control this migration flow so as to avoid unforeseen situations in order to avoid potential conflicts. And what is crucial to us and what is the priority of the Czech Government from the very beginning is not to allow any organisational inadequacy and any chaos associated with the migration crisis in the Czech Republic. At the beginning of this week, September 28 - 30, I also attended two summits in the United States. These summits took place at the edge of the United Nations General Assembly and concerned the efforts of the international community to mobilize forces against current security threats. I consider it important to implement the summit of countries that are part of the coalition in the fight against the Islamic State. It was the first meeting of such a coalition at the highest level. At that meeting, there has also been a balance of what has been achieved so far in the fight against the militants of the Islamic State and what measures it is time for the international community to support. Clearly, defeating the Islamic State and stabilizing the situation in the Middle East is the most effective way to successfully address the current migration crisis facing Europe. As shown in the case of Syria or Libya, conflicts that seem remote may have absolutely direct and immediate effects on Europe, or also on the Czech Republic. That is why I am pleased that the Czech Republic is an active part of the coalition that is fighting against the Islamic State. I don't think we should forget that. And we should not forget that in our speeches in the Chamber of Deputies. We are among the group of six dozen states that have taken concrete steps and measures. Last year we provided a significant supply of ammunition to Kurdish and Iraqi fighters. Another significant shipment of ammunition is realized during this year. The army of the Czech Republic, in cooperation with the government, is considering further support for Kurdish and Iraqi fighters. I had a chance to speak with the Prime Minister of Iraq. He highly appreciated the support provided by the Czech Republic in particular. We're involved in the training of Kurdish police officers. We are also prepared to assist in training Iraqi police forces. The government has approved the sale of L159 aircraft to Iraq, and at this point, Iraqi pilot training is underway. The fact that our supersonic Gripens help guard the airspace of our NATO partners allows them to release their military forces, i.e. The forces of their air force, to direct strikes on the forces of the Islamic State. I am glad and proud that the Czech Republic is one of the countries that are not merely looking at, not only discussing, but providing quite specific help. And now I am not just talking about military assistance, supply or training, but we are also providing humanitarian and health assistance to people who have fled the Islamic State, especially in the Kurdistan region. Unfortunately, the negotiations that took place in New York at the edge of the UN General Assembly have not yet brought about the clear resolution of the most important conflict that we are all watching very closely, and that is the war in Syria. Unfortunately, the number of refugees from Syria is still growing and there is a really big threat of humanitarian crisis. The stabilization of Syria will take, will not be easy, but it is the only real way out of the current situation. In my opinion, the West must find a way to an agreement with Russia in relation to Syria and the civil war there must be ended. The Czech Republic - I think this is also an important point I would like to recall - is not only active within the coalition that is fighting against the Islamic State, but we have had the opportunity to recall once again on the United Nations site that we are returning to the UN's international missions. In recent years the Czech Republic has not been represented in these missions at all, or has only been symbolically represented in them. These missions also play a very important role in preventing migration and stabilising the situation in the Middle East, North and Central Africa. I want to inform you that the Czech Republic and the Government of the Czech Republic are ready to examine all the requirements of the UN carefully. As soon as the UN needs us to participate in international missions, we are ready to send our representatives into them. The immediate task is to participate in the UN mission in Mali. As you know, even Mali is facing a civil war that is taking place there with radical Islamists, and the Czech Republic is ready to send its troops into this UN mission, which is organized in Mali. In this speech, honourable Members, I wanted to inform you, first of all, of all the fundamental steps that the government is taking to address the current migration crisis, to manage it in the Czech Republic, to meet our responsibilities in front of citizens, to help find real solutions at European level, to support realistic action at European level, including those for which we also use the ground of international organisations, such as for example. The United Nations. [[12.50 hours]] We are not at the beginning, but we are probably in the middle of a very serious process that has a global dimension that no country in Europe can handle alone, and I think that the Czech Republic is able to influence decision-making at European level so that Europe will focus on the causes of the crisis. The only way for both the Czech Republic and Europe is a rational approach - an agreement, compliance with the rules. We also insist that much greater international engagement is needed. A stronger European foreign and security policy is needed, which must aim to stabilise Europe's environment. A stronger NATO engagement or the United Nations is important. We have been following these principles, which I mentioned, as the Government of the Czech Republic, and we will continue to insist on these principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u107	I thank the Prime Minister for his words, and under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, I am declaring an hourly lunch break. I'll meet you here at 1:50. I wish you a good lunch and remind you of the members of the Chamber of Deputies that we will meet in a few moments at President Hamáček's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u108	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will continue the adjourned meeting. Allow me first to announce the apology received by the President of the House. Mr Pavel Čihák apologizes from 14:30 for family reasons, Mr Zlatuška from 14:00 for work reasons, Mr Miroslav Kalousek from 17:00 to 00:00, that is, for afternoon and evening, and from 13:00 to 17:00 for Minister Stropnický apologizes. We have factual points ahead of us. First Mrs Olga Havlová. I understand to my colleague Fiedler that he is not applying for a factual remark that should have been made before the break. Mr Martin Novotný will also be prepared for a factual remark. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last year and this year I participated in several demonstrations against Islam and I had the opportunity to hear the views of our citizens here. It's pointless to point out that fear prevails. Whoever wants to live in our country must respect our culture, our traditions and, above all, our laws. So far we're bending our backs and forgetting our national pride. As early as April this year, we passed a law on churches and religious societies. The aim of the bill is to prevent the granting of special rights to Islam, such as the establishment of church schools or the operation of spiritual service in prisons and the army. It is also important that none of the security authorities, whether it be the National Security Office, the Ministry of the Interior, the Security Information Service and the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, opposes the law, understand the reasons for the adoption of this law. We wanted to discuss this law first, but the coalition refused again. Now is not the time to share in the coalition and opposition, but to unite and do everything for the safety of our citizens and the future of our children. So please think about it and start acting like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u110	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. Now, Mr Martin Novotný, with a point of fact, will continue with Mr Jaroslav Holík's speech, which is duly registered from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. as the first one since June. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u111	Thank you for the floor. I find it difficult to react with a factual remark to the Prime Minister's speech, which he presented and disappeared again. But I suppose I have no choice but to respond to the absent Prime Minister on this journey. At the end of his speech there was an interesting thought for me, and because I am somewhat affected by the knowledge of both classical and modern logic, I would like to think about this idea of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said that we were unable to do so in an institution based on the principle of achieving consensus, i.e. at the level of the European Council, to achieve this consensus, and that is why there is no other field than the body that brings together ministers, where we could have been overvoted. I don't think this can put an end to the idea of this country's prime minister. The right idea, the right logical continuation is to ask ourselves whether we think it is acceptable, whether this experience has shown us that it is not acceptable, to decide some things in the way that was decided in this case, i.e. voting by the majority on what took place there. I think that's the conclusion every thinking person has to make, and I'm quite sorry that the Prime Minister doesn't. We in the resolution that we are proposing are reviving this issue and we recommend that the Czech Government begin to look deeply at how to define for itself again the boundaries, which we think can be allowed to vote on, on which matters must be maintained on the principle of consensus, virtually. veto law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u112	I thank Mr Martin Novotný. Mr Jaroslav Holík will now have the floor, Mr René Číp, duly registered, will be prepared. Before my colleague Holík reaches the speaker's desk, I announce a replacement card No. 13 has Mr Rom Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u113	Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues, I confess that I was a little punished for joining the proper debate. And since my previous speakers have said more or less everything I wanted to say, you mustn't be angry that I'm going back to something. From this place, I warned about ten days ago that, say, the sluggish actions of the governments of European countries could lead to the advent of extreme parties. A week has passed, and we know that Haider's side, today the deceased, has strengthened a lot. For this reason, I would like to ask: Let us act on action, let us try to deal with this as quickly as possible to get rid of this issue at least a little bit. I am very glad that there was a joint exercise of our troops and police at Dolní Dvořiště. Otherwise, like you, a few dozen of our citizens come to me every day asking me what to do about it or what you're doing about it, and they're mostly dissatisfied. They are dissatisfied with our mass media giving us distorted information. We still have photographs here, poor families with children. When I visited camp in Vyšní Lhota, there were only men and there were no refugees from Syria, mostly black and it was Vanza (?), Togo, Central African Republic. There were very few of them from Syria. As well as when I was in Bělá pod Bezdězd, from 540 people there more than half did not have papers, but they all claimed to be from Syria. It will be ideal if our man is better informed, and then maybe even his fear will be significantly smaller. As I said, our media has been showing us the heartbreaking story of drowned Aylan for several days, and it is only after a number of days that we learn that the boat Aylan was on was driven by his father. And instead of caring and saving his wife and children, he let them drown because a woman and children are worth far less than an Orthodox Muslim. I would ask here: Please, there is a website on our website that invites refugees here. Can you find out who the operator of this site is?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u114	Dear Member, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. I know some are running low, but I think they can let the speaker speak in a dignified environment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u115	"Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been thinking here and about how many of the arrivals to Europe are really refugees before the war, how many of them are economic refugees, and of course we know that among them are some of the ambassadors of the Islamic State as a Trojan horse who will be creating cells here in the future. Again, I say that the real refugees before the war will be very few. They'll mostly be economic refugees. I'm not going to repeat what has already been said that one will settle here and then take new family members under our laws. [[14.00 hours]] Please, let's try to think. History is more or less repeating itself to us. It has already been said here that they always win predatory and more aggressive tribes, let it be the cultural old Greece, which pushed Macedonia out and then Rome, Rome succumbed to the Germanic tribes raid, the Kelt also succumbed to the Markoman and Kvád in our country. And the fact that we're here saying that we're gonna treat them nicely and they're gonna treat us nicely - don't believe it. Remember the story of Montezuma when Cortés came and more or less destroyed the Azték empire. Same thing happened with Atahualpa, who, even though he paid off with gold, still had Pizarro killed. We're saying, let's say we welcome our fellow brothers from other countries, they'll help us. In 1641 we also welcomed the Švéd here in the Czech Republic, thinking that they would help us. As it turned out, we all know. So please, I would just do one thing-- we're here in the House attic, and we're dealing with a really serious matter. I'd hate for my grandson or grandson to learn to write from right to left in 50 years and to console his wife, who had to have a compulsory female circumcision to say, "This is my stupid grandfather's fault." Ladies and gentlemen, let us take these words to heart and think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u116	I thank Mr Jaroslav Holík. Now, with Mrs Nina Nováková's factual remark. My colleague Číp is still preparing. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u117	Yes. Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that the Prime Minister has already arrived and that perhaps we will act in the sense that we will lead the negotiations to a conclusion. I, with all due respect to Mr. Pre-Lecturer, whom I otherwise love very much, are just statements that the House should not send among our fellow citizens, such frightening statements about what will happen to us. I will not comment on his bold epic about mankind's development, but there is one thing that I would warn very strongly about - that we should look at the superficial eyes of those who are now in refugee immigrant camps and evaluate Muslims in short terms, their attitudes towards family, for example, and their attitudes toward the value of human life and so on. In my entire life, I had to hear how shorthanded, distorted, and not with good will, someone characterized me as a Christian. So if anyone's following the rules of humanity, etc., the fact that he's a Muslim, please doesn't bother me. I think that we really should appreciate - I do not think that political correctness is always right, but that we should not describe the situation with our subjective impressions. After all, these are signals sent by the Chamber of Deputies to the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u118	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Lorencová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u119	Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, it looks like you're not gonna let me off the microphone today, but I'll be brief. I would like to ask the question of a colleague who spoke before me about what family she was thinking. If I'm not mistaken, Muslim has the right to four wives. Am I wrong? So what kind of family is this fellow lady talking about? Rather, I would like to point out that we should all be aware, as we are not here, whether there has been a break in European civilization, if what is happening today, if what we are witnessing does not mean that our entire civilization is starting to go in a different direction than we originally expected. What we've been working on for generations of our ancestors, some achievements of our civilization, if it's not seen as our weakness on the part of the arrivals. If we're not actually considered weak. I want to believe that we realize that and that we don't. I do not want to be part of the fact that I will just stand by and watch some sort of attempt or preparation of Europe for mass suicide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u120	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. With a point of fact, Mr Jaroslav Holík and perhaps we will continue the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, one more time. I would now respond, through Mr President, to the words of my colleague Nováková, who I very much appreciate. A lot of people know me as a traveler, and you know I've come a long way. I've been through something with these Muslims. They're very kind and friendly people if we give them something. But in that moment, as I stopped, I became the enemy number one within a minute. There's no way I'd want to go against a Muslim state. I'm not even exactly opposed to immigrants. You just come in here, you honor our laws, you act like we all do, and I'm happy to accept you. But if you're gonna push your way, don't be angry, we have to fight back here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u122	I thank Mr Holík for his time. Mr Tomio Okamura's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the Prime Minister's speech we have heard here. I'm hearing something completely different from what's happening here. Once again, the ČSSD government, YES and KDU-ČSL have agreed to receive thousands of illegal immigrants from hostile countries and from hostile cultures, emphasising that the first 1,500 illegal immigrants have already decided to accept this government in July, when there were no quotas yet, all against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens of the Czech Republic. This government has no mandate to take these irreversible steps, which will cause great social tensions and an increase in crime in the future, since until recently you, the government officials, and you, Prime Minister, and last year too, have said that there is no problem with immigrants and there is no need to prepare for it. On the contrary, you have dehonested those of us who have warned us to prepare in time. The result of your government incompetence and servility towards Brussels and Washington is the acceptance of thousands of unwanted intruders against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens. Unlike Maďar, unlike the Slovák in particular, you didn't even realize any resistance. [[14.10 hours]] All at the expense of social security for our citizens. This government has decided to spend billions of crowns on illegal migrants at the expense of our citizens. This government, once again, should resign as it violated its actions, when it adopted the dictation of Brussels, the sovereignty of our Republic. And this is a very serious moment. These are irreversible steps that will affect generations of future developments in the Czech Republic, and we should allow citizens to express themselves in a binding referendum at this serious moment. You have already rejected this proposal here in the House, our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - the SPD, three times, or citizens should express themselves in the new early elections. And I ask you, Government, to allow citizens democracy, not dictatorship. You act completely against their interests and irreversibly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u124	That was Mr. Okamura. Now Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will respond with priority rights. My colleague Seďa's point of order...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u125	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I am, of course, here to listen to the debate, and I apologise, sometimes I respond to it. If the arguments that will appear here are not accurate. I had to smile a little when Mr Okamura here was talking about servility towards Brussels, because our alleged servility towards Brussels was shown by being among the only four states that voted against the proposal for a mandatory refugee redistribution mechanism. We were one of four countries from 28 countries in the European Union. I think it is possible to refer to various things as servility, but the fact that we voted against the proposal is certainly not a servility in any way, and there is no way to describe it. So much for the first time. Secondly, I also want to make it clear to you that when the permanent redistribution mechanism is on the table, the Czech Republic will vote against the proposal and we will not see whether Poland, Romania or anyone else votes with us. We will simply vote against this proposal because we believe that such interference with the sovereignty of the state should not be done and that the government has a responsibility to its citizens for being able to say a clue, from a social, economic, security point of view. This must be the competence of the government and the government must have this ability to say in a situation where it will no longer be able to integrate more people, take care of more refugees, so every government must be able to say stop and not be part of the mandatory redistribution mechanism within the European Union. And I clearly wish to reject the fact that measures on the part of the Czech Government would not be prepared here in time. Last year, at a time when there was no debate in the Chamber of Deputies about any migration crisis, we took measures to strengthen the military and the police. Last year we decided to fill the state of the police and the army. Last year we decided to strengthen the security services within their budget. We made all these decisions before the strong migration waves arrived in Europe before the Balkan road opened. That's why we were ready. And I am convinced that the police and other security forces are handling the situation in the Czech Republic, that we have the situation under control, we are able to guarantee compliance with public order and we are able to take care of people who are seeking asylum here in the Czech Republic. There really is no problem with that. I want to draw attention to the fact that we started preparing on time, the important decisions were made by the government last year, and we were not waiting for the migration crisis to break out here. The fight that awaits us - and I stress again, we are now in the midst of some struggle for a realistic European Union approach to tackling the migration crisis. The main battle that is now ahead of us is a debate about a mandatory redistribution mechanism that not only our government, but any future government that comes after ours, could not intervene in any way. This will now be a debate at European level, and here we are clearly saying in advance the position of the Czech Republic. We want the mechanism not to be based on mandatory quotas, and we want individual countries to be able to volunteer for solidarity. But I don't think compulsory solidarity makes much sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u126	I thank Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and I have other factual points here. First, Mr Tomio Okamura, then Mrs Chalánková, then Mr Marek Černoch. I see we're having a bad lunch break with the deal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, what I've just heard here, or what we've heard from the Prime Minister, it's really an influential peak and a confirmation of all my words. The position of the Czech Republic? After all, you are showing completely flagrantly how the attitude of the government is completely different from that of the vast majority of Czech citizens who do not want to accept illegal immigrants! Do not say the position of the Czech Republic when the government has an attitude completely opposite to the overwhelming majority of Czech citizens. This is the attitude of you, the government of ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL, not the attitude of the citizens of the Czech Republic, which you should represent. That's just the way it is! So say, that is the government's position, because it is not the position of the Czech Republic and you do not represent the citizens of the Czech Republic in that you voluntarily accept illegal immigrants into the Czech Republic. I would also like to say that you have not used all possible remedies, such as: Prime Minister Fico in Slovakia is involved in this to prevent the sovereignty of our country being violated. Against the will of citizens of the Czech Republic and at the expense of social security. You guys bow down, you always vote against it, and then you servilely accept the illegal migrants anyway. What's the fight? What kind of battle is this for our statehood? What is this fight for the sovereignty of the Czech Republic and, above all, the struggle for what the vast majority of Czech citizens wish for, Prime Minister? Otherwise, you said the police were prepared here. You mean the 200 police officers you sent to the Czech-Austrian border, but you forgot to tell us that it's 200 police officers for three shifts? Because they can't work logically for 24 hours? So that's 200 cops divided by three, so you've really strengthened the protection of our borders by 60 cops across the Czech-Austrian border. That's the only number we've heard so far in this House, so maybe there's another one we don't know about. So I guess we don't even have to discuss it, that's pretty smiling. Furthermore, let me remind you that you have already decided this June, July, that you will accept 1,500 illegal immigrants at a time when there were no quotas. In the same way, this winter you have already decided to accept 55 adult Syřan to accompany 15 sick children, with the possibility that the adults will be able to decide whether to live here. That means this policy of yours is long-term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u128	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Chalánková also made a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u129	I would like to ask that we speed up the general debate a little bit, so that we can even get to the detailed debate and read the resolution. I can say for myself that this is not some solo resolution by one political party, but that I have discussed it across the political spectrum. And in support of the Prime Minister, I would like to say here, and to all of you, to find the courage to speed up this debate, for example. in Part II, we have a proposal that the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the introduction of permanent mechanisms for transferring refugees to and within the European Union on the basis of a mandatory redistribution key, so-called. quotas; III. we express our support for such a government approach in general, measures that will reduce the overall migration pressure on the European Union, etc., etc.; IV. We express our support for such an approach by the Government of the Czech Republic and, in general, by measures that, without undue delay, will lead to the elimination of procedural deficiencies, etc. If we speed up this debate, we can really get to a resolution that would support the position of the Czech Government at these important negotiations at EU level. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u130	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marek Černoch, before that, I will read the apologies received by the President of the House. Mr Kolovratník from 14 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Tureček from 14 a.m. from 14 a.m. for working reasons until the end of the day, Minister Herman from 13.50 a.m. and the last apology reached by the President is from Mr Farský to 16 a.m. Another colleague Klaška from 13.50 to the end of today's meeting day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is not really just the quota numbers here, but it is, as my colleague Lorencová has spoken here, in which she is right by your means, that these people can bring more and more and more with them. This means that it will develop through a geometric series and after a very short time the Czech Republic will not be able to manage it. I apologize if I did not notice this in the Prime Minister's speech, the answer to yes or no, whether the Czech Republic will oppose the acceptance of quotas, whether it will take the Czech people's side and sue the EU in the European Court. And whether within the permanent quotas mentioned above, the Czech Republic, if it is overvoted, will take a decision from the European Union or will stand up against it again in the European Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u132	Thank you for keeping time. We are now continuing the debate with proper applications. Mr René Číp, Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a serious problem here today, a problem which sooner or later can cause major difficulties both in the Czech Republic and throughout Europe. For too long, this risk has been pushed into the background until it has appeared with a force that can significantly change our lives for all of us. I remember when we had an election campaign for the European Parliament in 2009, it was already one of the fundamental issues. What's been done since then? Not enough. At that time, the economic crisis deepened, and the economies of almost all the countries of the world were sinking. Even then, many warned. Their concerns were mainly linked to the theory that third-world economies would fall more than the more advanced ones, and therefore the already low standard of living of the population would fall faster there. At the time, the European Union's policy was mainly focused not on numbers, but on the integration potential of immigrants. Quotas that deny the fundamental pillars of Europe's integration were not yet on the table. There wasn't really a reason. Not that there were no immigrants back then, but there were only so many that Europe was able to handle. Why? Because so many weren't trying to get into Europe. And for what reason? It's pretty simple. The security of the European Union's external borders, including those of the sea, was not only ensured by the European Union, but also by the North African states, which were well paid or had other benefits associated with it. This has made the situation easier for the European Union. In Syria, Iraq, and other countries of the Middle East, relative stability may have been our view at that time, but there was still no Islamic State. Unfortunately, however, there have been major changes for Europe. They were far from merely caused by internal tensions in these countries, but the European Union itself signed on very strongly for the help of the United States. It did not need the UN Security Council's mandate to do so, and it acted on its own. What was sown at that time must be harvested today. It is therefore of the utmost need, and it is clearly high time to return to peace and diplomacy policy. And it's not just about immigration from other continents. We also have many refugees who leave poorer European countries and follow the vision of a better life into the richer. This year, 40,000 Kosovans Kosovan to Germany from January to May. I'm surprised at this number and I'm not afraid to say that I'm impressed. Many have told us that the Kosovan people have a desire to live in their own state, and the European Union has helped them do so. There was never any talk of wanting to leave him in mass. But let us return to the refugees from the Middle East and Africa. As we all know, there is only a part of immigrants emigrating for reasons of political, faith or other oppression associated with non-compliance with human rights. Refugees fleeing from the expansion of the self-proclaimed Islamic state can certainly count on them. Unfortunately, they are joined by a larger group that is fleeing for economic reasons. They expect their situation to improve in Europe. Yes, their expectations are true, real. Indeed, Europe has been economically able to provide them with a higher standard of living than the countries of origin, since they often had very little at home. Although they have often been miserable in Europe, it could be a luxury for refugees themselves. There's not that much hunger here. Even if you don't have any health insurance and you're in bad shape, they'll take care of you. If you have no place to live, there are charities, you can turn there. If you fail there, there are plenty of ghettos and empty objects where you can somehow live, and if there are a lot of you and the state has no alternative, he'll leave you there. You're not in danger of a daily struggle for a completely bare life here. Yes, these are all beautiful prospects for many Mimoevropan. But here we are primarily obliged to take care of the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. If the European Union does not act quickly other than by promoting quotas by qualified majority through the resistance of certain countries and does not begin to address the causes of migration at the point of origin, it will not ensure the rapid destruction of the Islamic State and the protection of the EU's external borders, we will have to act. Our country alone is unable to solve this problem, but it is able to ensure the protection of its own borders with maximum effort in some reasonable time frame. Unless there's another option, we don't have a choice. The free movement of persons in the European Union will not be affected by this, as this is a reservation for all those legally staying in it. So now it is clear that our government has not been prepared for the possibility that the European Union will impose quotas on us, and now it does not know what to do with it. Many claim that we could accept a number of refugees. Yes, we could. In some years, refugees have assured us that the population of the Czech Republic has not decreased due to a small birth rate. The problem is that those we have often accepted are those who have formed in their country of origin if not higher, so often at least middle class. After their departure, however, she loses those on which she should build the very new foundations, and that is wrong. It is also possible to ask a logical question whether the new refugees to whom we provide asylum will be asked whether they are interested in living in the Czech Republic and accept its constitution and laws. However, the question is whether all possible proposals to solve these problems that we are talking about or going to talk about can globally solve human society's problems for decades or even centuries. I don't think so. The problems of this planet are primarily due to the unjust redistribution of world wealth. It is not possible for 10 percent of people to own 90 percent of the world's wealth. The richest are often unwilling to participate in solving problems, with them taking care of their lives and protecting themselves. This is why it also causes migration. With a fairer proportion of world wealth, we may not have to discuss this at all today. Let us remember that in the short term, there are further movements, not of hundreds or thousands of people, but of hundreds of thousands to millions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u134	I thank Mr René Číp. Mr Leo Luzar will take the floor, Mrs Olga Havlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u135	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a proper statement in the debate so far about what has been said here today. We, who have duly applied and waited a difficult time since the last discussion of the material, are now feeling a little disadvantaged from the factual comments that replaced the debate. I waited calmly, but please all those who suddenly, after exhausted their own factual comments, feel an effort to accelerate and finally do something to take into account that there is enough of us registered and waiting, and also a little cooler from that time point of view and allowed us to speak. Now, before I speak to the Prime Minister, possibly. To the government as such, allow me a little field trip. As early as 2005, ten years before that date, the European Commission adopted its Directive Com 669, which talks about the need for the influx of legal migration to Europe. These figures are talking about millions. In 2025, millions of migrants, legal migrants, should come to the European Union every year to compensate for the demographic decline in Europe's population. [[14.30 hours]] Of course, these figures were processed by economists. Let's say, from an economic point of view, that's probably true. I do not know how economists have asked the citizens of the existing European Union countries how this influx of new citizens will perceive and what risks they will feel, if any. threat. These issues, of course, are in the past from the point of view of today, because today we live in the influx of illegal migrants. And as all the countries of the European Union speak today, it is no longer possible to distinguish between an illegal and legal migrant or the one requested from Europe's economic perspectives and we treat this as humanitarian aid. But here, of course, there is a risk of how far it is humanitarian aid, and how far it is a matter of economic salvation for those people who come from developing countries, possibly. countries, of course, affected by unrest and war. A lot of today's debateers have said that Europe is to take some responsibility, that the government is to take responsibility. And I ask where we were when the European Union, in turn, we, the Czech Republic, participated in the joint responsibility of NATO membership, to dismantle these states. It was the state departments that worked. We could have had reservations about the functioning of these state bodies, we could have reservations about democratic principles - according to our standards, of course. But these states have worked and have represented quite a strong stability in the regions. I must remind Iraq. Iraq, if you recall historically, occupied Kuwait. They consider him their province, that Kuwait belongs to Iraq and that it is simply an isolated province - today I would use the parallel of Taiwan and China. Of course, international law has worked here, and the UN has quite rightly intervened and has freed Kuwait from the Iraqi occupation. The question, however, is how well the invasion of Iraq and, in fact, the conquest of Iraq and the destruction of the existing stable government was justified. So far, no one has doubted it, and everyone has kept quiet about it. Only the current presidential elections in the United States opened this issue because many American soldiers died in Iraq. And this is becoming a pre-election issue for the US presidential elections. Today, all the candidates say that if they knew then, they wouldn't have sent American soldiers into Iraq. It's an interesting shift in thought and logic. Iraq is still not a safe country. He's broken. And all of Iraq's surrounding states were receiving Iraqi refugees. There were camps, infrastructure built there. Those camps worked somehow, and somehow they were able to swallow up the hundreds of thousands and millions of Iráčan who were leaving battle stations and trying to find help in the surrounding states. At the time, Europe was cold, unresponsive. She had the opportunity to strengthen those camps, she had the opportunity to support the refugee crisis quite significantly here. But it wasn't about us, it was there. We were dealing with other important things back then. Of course. The second problem is Libya. Even in Libya under Muammar Kaddáfí's reign then... He was a dictator, no discussion. It was a hereditary dictatorship that worked there. But the state's systems worked there. We can have ideas about how it should work properly, what religion should be, what administrative management should be, but state systems have worked there. Europe and NATO took advantage of the UN resolution on the no-fly zone we respected and began bombing those we did not like. We have made a selective decision that someone in Libya should win to defeat Kaddáfí. Unfortunately, he fell rather harshly. Yet, over the years, Libya has failed to build a stable country. I'm not talking about democracy, not here at all. I am merely talking about some stability or the appearance of stability that could enable people to return to Libya. Because Libya was one of the states that accepted refugees. And there were big refugee camps. This could be remembered by the Ital as to how many refugees from Italy were exported back to Libya to refugee camps. Yet the same Italy was the one who began to bomb first in Libya. Some say that Berlusconi had some disputes of his own that he was trying to cover up some pre-election financial machinations in support of this obvious attack here. I don't know. I don't have any evidence. The Italian media is full of it. But there was a precedent for a violation of international law in Libya, which we as NATO members should have immediately attacked, alerted, and not careless to the fact that a state body is being liquidated, which we do not like, but is actually far away. And that's when millions of people started moving, and they're still looking for a place to anchor. I'm not talking about Syria. Of course. Here's a previous speaker asking where to see the moment, the moment of the movement. Then I'll tell you where I think it's possible to see it. When the Syrian government's territory became smaller, Asad began to lose on the front. Of course, he was losing under the pressure of rebels who were heavily subsidized - and now we can say by whom - the United States, NATO. Of course, there were also Turek who look to their own interests and try to apply their hegemony to the Arabian Peninsula. Asad began to lose, the territory began to shrink, where there was relative peace and where there were refugee camps, and these people had nowhere to go. And that was the moment. Don't think everyone's watching the Internet and looking at ads - come to Europe, it's the best place to be. But that was the moment when the thousands, tens of thousands, millions of people got in motion looking for a place to dock. Saudi Arabia is building a wall that doesn't want anyone there. The other states look at it like we're nothing, we musicians. And, of course, it's perfectly logical when you travel across countries in ten years of fighting, from the nearest ones, where you seek your way, to the farther away, you don't care if you go 100 kilometers or 150 kilometers or a thousand kilometers, when you know that you will finally find peace and, above all, a certain property that can help you survive. That's the moment these masses started moving. But what I am interested in in this matter - and I am now heading to the questions of the government - is how the Czech foreign policy within NATO is instructed. Who approved, approached and denied. has voted to allow NATO States to participate in these flagrant violations of international law beyond the mandate of the UN? How did our members in NATO vote in Brussels when this was discussed? Who, in fact, is in charge of our NATO representatives, how should they act and how should they vote? I know how the government should act within Brussels. I know what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to do, but I do not know who is in charge and who is in particular directing our representatives within NATO. If it's the Department of Defense, because there's a soldier there, if it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or whatever. The whole government. I confess, that's what I'm interested in. In these basic steps, which were at the beginning of this migration, the Czech Government decided. And here I'm wondering what mandate we've come up with. Because that's what we should be talking about. Who gave the mandate to make that decision and join these actions? Because, of course, then, if we're silent, and silence means consent, we're also accomplices. And then it's really a little hypocritical - and here it was also said - that we're hypocritically rejecting it. Yes, we refuse. But if we're responsible, then we also have to say that those who are silent and not protesting are also carrying the cream from this problem and they're going to have to get involved. And the solution won't be easy. There has been a lot of talk about the last negotiations of our representatives within the European Union. I confess here, I don't envy the Home Secretary's position. They defend it in the long run, it is consistent and its views are quite clear and clear. So inviting him to a meeting in Brussels already knows in advance how he will react and what his answers to what Brusel is discussing will be. Especially when Germany, as one of the strongest economies and the most affected economy, changes its views from week to week on how to proceed, what to do and how to react. This is not an easy position. But on the other hand, it must also be said that we focus only on what we do now. But we don't ask what's going to happen. [[14.40 hours]] Germany says we must be solidarity. Here he emphasizes that not only Germany, but the whole of Europe must be solidarity, and he is preparing a model for the redistribution of these refugees. We will answer, of course, and it has also been said here, what is dragging refugees towards Germany, and that is indeed the social system, the wealth that is in Germany. It was said here that Germany was looking for ways, or calling for some kind of flat-rate unification of the system for the payment of aid and benefits to these migrants. But I think that Germany will solve this as it has done many times in the past, which means that it will add resources to the exporting migrants and send them to those countries that will succumb. I don't think they're gonna succumb, they're just gonna be faced with this thing just like we were, historically, when we took over the first wave of post-revolutionary migration from Vietnam, from Germany, when they went along with a pretty fat severance package. I'm afraid the Němec will re-solve it in the same way, which means they'll add resources to the refugees to match the financial gap between Germany and us, and send them here. And the Czech Republic, worry about it until these funds run out. I firmly believe that it will not be the funds of Germany, but it will be the European Union's funds in some sort of redistributing of funds, when funds come to every refugee and will be redistributed like this across the European Union. In fact, this will solve the problem of some equality of access to refugees. But the Němec won't mind that there will be an inequality between the economic security of refugees and the inhabitants of the countries so affected. I myself wonder what kind of solution Germany will eventually choose, but I fear it will be exactly this, because it is quite simple, it is only financial operations within the budget of the European Union. Now, questions about the government itself. We are all already taking the fact that refugees will probably stay here and it will not be a question of some 180, 120 days in some detention camps, but after this time we will have to, as they say, release them and let them into the normal regime of the functioning of the Czech Republic. So far, we're talking about hundreds, thousands of people who are coming. I am not even talking about whether we are going to keep them here by force, or if we are going to convince them here economically, as I think it will, but I am talking about how we should prepare the conditions for their integration into the Czech Republic. And here are the more important questions raised for the entire government, how it is prepared for this step. brát us take the basic pressure on the social, health and school systems of the Czech Republic. How do we ensure the compulsory schooling of children who come? Do we have so many Arabic translators? These children usually can't speak any language other than Arabic. How are we gonna keep this safe? If we want to redistribute them across the country, will we have so many translators, or will we download them to one place where we can secure compulsory school attendance? Are we going to determine any particular city that is going to do this? Or will it be Prague directly where these people will live? Has anyone dealt with municipalities as they are able to absorb these people precisely in view of the need for them to secure some basic adaptation conditions for the Czech Republic, especially language? How will the Czech labour market be released for these people? Of course, and I firmly believe that we do not want them to live on doses from the European Union, but that we want them to work here. How we adapt labour law to the fact that the worker knows Czech, Czech and can sign job security and I don't know what the employee has to sign before he gets to work. How will we ensure all this for those people who come to our labour market so that they can really integrate and work? Social and health systems. How does the health insurance company have prepared health plans for the influx of refugees coming, were not health insurance payers, yet should they now be involved in the health care system and should receive the same support that Czech citizens receive? These are all questions which, of course, will end up where the Czech Republic will take it. What will be the strengthened budget of the Czech Republic in these areas to cope with the influx of these people? I'm not gonna talk about the system of law at all. These people come from countries where a different system of law rules, a lot of religious law. It separates Islam from Sharia as his expression of religion law is a bit of a problem, which is why it is a lot to promote and work in the current Arab countries, because it cannot be separated directly - the interpretation of Islam is simply that faith takes up the rights and obligations that result from it. We have a canonical law here. Of course, it also exists in the Czech Republic, but it is quite separate from the perception of religion over the years. Yet there are groups where this right applies or is sometimes stressed that under canon law it would be so. I think that we will face the same problem and close our eyes to it as we proceed within the legal system of the Czech Republic with these matters, which will definitely come. There was a ritual sacrifice of animals here not long ago, if I remember correctly, the Minister of Agriculture is not here, he would have told me, in the Jewish community, when there was a debate about killing animals for ritual reasons. If it's humane, inhumane and all that. But these are isolated cases, so they don't have enough significant influence on society and they're a few pieces, if I call it really vulgar. With this community comes quite a massive religious custom to apply this. How will we react? How will Czech law respond to these customs? Are we going to ban them? I believe that the Minister of the Interior here will make it clear that they will be obliged to respect the law of the Czech Republic. I fully agree with that. But how are we going to enforce it in the communities? Of course, if something is forbidden officially, it lives unofficially somewhere in the mess. So we start pushing them into the religious ghettos. Definitely, because they're gonna want to live in their religion. They won't disown him. I'm sure we're not stupid enough to believe that. This means that lonely groups will start to emerge here, and now the question is whether they will be lonely or centralized, according to the influence of the state they will exercise. And the Ministry, in my opinion, does not yet have these crisis plans worked out, where they will be settled and how they will work. These are all questions that are addressed in the future. How the Czech Republic copes with this, I have no idea. I have no idea how the European Union can cope with this, even if many countries have this experience. Such France, or England, could talk about immigration waves and what causes it and how these immigration waves work in ghettos quite logically created. And unfortunately, they're probably coming from us. I wish we could say that I was wrong in the future. I really think that if someone said to me today, "Mr. Luzar, you're wrong, you're wrong," and I might be ten years from now, but I'm afraid that in a year or two, I'll be able to say "yes, I really was wrong," that would make me happy. But I fear that Europe will never be what it was. And if we don't solve this kind of hypocrisy that we're with, and I'm not afraid of that word, they've caused what's happening in the world right now, we can't even solve this problem that we've got ahead of us. And just closing your eyes to him and saying that it's not so much a problem, that's probably the biggest mistake we could make. Therefore, I firmly believe that there is already a staff working at the Ministry of the Interior looking for crisis solutions to those practical specific questions that will happen after these people leave the legal detention period and are not limited to moving in the free market in the Czech Republic. I firmly believe that there are staffs working at the Ministry of Health who are looking to help health insurance companies and how they will integrate these groups of uninsured people within the Czech Republic. And it could be up to 20,000, according to some numbers maybe even more people. How will social and pension systems work? Because these people don't get retirement from abroad because there was no logical pension insurance. And they're already many at retirement age. When they come, families will be brought together. There is talk of young people, but let us take note that older generations will come. How will they live? How will they work in the pension system? These are questions that I believe are being raised at the ministries. I firmly believe that, and I will be very happy if the Prime Minister assures me that these groups already exist and that these groups are already dealing with these issues in the future. If it really is that they exist and deal with it, I will be very happy to be informed by the Prime Minister of how they are progressing, or in what composition and where they work, so that, for example, the people of this honourable Parliament who are interested in this issue can participate in these matters so that they can participate in them or help solve these problems. In my long speech, I outlined some questions for the future that await this republic, and I do not know how far we will be able to deal with it. But what I can say in my opinion is that if we hope to close our eyes, close our borders and pretend that this is going around us, we are deeply mistaken and this situation will catch up with us very quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u136	Thank you. That was Mr Leo Luzar. The next enrollment is Mrs Olga Havlová. Mr. Ivan Gabal will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u137	Mr President, colleagues, I will be very short, because I have used technical equipment before. I would just like to say that I watched tonight's show by Mrs Jílková, where there was talk of immigrants, and I was quite appalled that the citizens of our country didn't at all distinguish immigrants from the war zone looking for help, and the others, the immigrants and the economics. So it mixes a little bit like apples with pears, which is why we are also criticized from the European Union for our attitudes towards refugees at all. I would add that we are not inhuman, we are not the ones who would not want to help the needy. But even the needy don't want to stay with us at the same time. Their vision is Germany. But we have to assume that the surrounding states are closing borders, once the quotas are met, and there is no way that they will stay with us even for a temporary period of time. And here we need to take effective measures, who we leave behind and who we expel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u138	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. Mr Ivan Gabal now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u139	Thank you. Hello. [[The MP brought a laptop to the speaker's desk.]] I'm sorry I'm gonna read from my computer, I've already changed so much that the paper version has lost its meaning. I just wanted to clarify to Margo one of the previous speakers that, in the 1980s, communist Czechoslovakia delivered over three billion dollars of heavy weapons systems to Syria, Iraq, and Libya that we never received paid for, even forcing some of our citizens to serve as instructors in the Libyan army. And that part of the weapon was probably used in the aggression against Kuwait or the Iraqi-Iran conflict or maybe later in these countries, it seems logical, but that's just for clarification. Mr President, Prime Minister, colleagues, we are discussing an immigration wave that has not fallen from the sky. It has ripened in the development of Syria, Iraq and Libya for several years, unfortunately without sufficient attention and response from the international community, and this fact also concerned the Czech Republic, this House and the competent executive bodies. At some point in the Czech foreign policy, the view prevailed that we should not interfere with escalating conflicts. Let me, therefore, make no mistake today that, in terms of the numbers of exiled and fleeing from war, sectarian violence and the total devastation of their countries, we are barely at the beginning of a possible refugee wave and an impending exodus of the population. In refugee camps on the territory and in the neighborhood of the countries concerned, many times the population is potentially affected by the most people since World War II, which necessarily appears to be a continent of security and prosperity, because that is what it is. We cannot really close our eyes before this latent development. What are our options? There's practically only one thing. If we don't want immigration, we have to stop the conflict. If we want to stop the conflict, not only will the coordinated diplomatic efforts of the international community be necessary, but also the military intervention and defeat of the Islamic State. If we do not have the will to fight and stop the conflict, we need to prepare for extensive immigration. There are no other options. But is the solution really that simple? In my opinion, it isn't. We need to be able to answer whether the international community is able to reach a common position with regard to key threats and actors, and the current developments lead rather to a negative response, for example, on the continued continuation of the Syrian President responsible for the disaster and genocide of his citizens. As far as military intervention is concerned, then we need to discuss ground operations. And before we begin to advise the Američan or Rus, for example, what units or drones they should use, we need to take inventory at home. Among other things, because it is possible to work together in a diplomatic way, and this is needed within the European Union, its diplomacy and its active security and humanitarian policy, with regard to the deployment of military forces, are responsible for the defence and capacity of the Member States, and so are we. It must be said responsibly that at the moment we are not capable of such deployment, due to the lack of soldiers, the lack of filling units, the lack of necessary equipment, its modernization and equipment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u140	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask my colleagues for some peace. If you are discussing a problem other than migration, please move your discussion into the foyer and do not disturb individual colleagues. I understand that club presidents have to consult, but they could still do it elsewhere. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u141	Thank you. I don't want to underestimate the ability of soldiers and their experience in Kuwait, Afghanistan or Mali. But in terms of military condition, the Czech Republic can help allies rather in non-combat activities, which in the ability of direct combat involvement we continue to be the stowaways of Europe and the North Atlantic Alliance. We have been talking about this situation here for two years, it has been occurring for more than ten years, but we are not yet able to overcome it. An important aspect is also that, given Turkey's position as an increasingly active player in the regional conflict, NATO's activities cannot be relied on too much. It must be assumed that, following the failure in Iraq, the exhaustion of the will of citizens, and the year before the presidential elections, the United States' participation in a ground operation cannot be relied upon either. Therefore, if we do not want to wait for another refugee wave, we must significantly increase our capacity for military activity. And the emphasis on the word is significant. Let us remember that in the past year, the international coalition against the Islamic State, of which we have been a member, has lost more territorially than acquired. It will not be easy in the fight against non-state but extremely motivated and determined groups, and all the more so we need to work on our capabilities. But political goals, the idea of organizing and solving the degraded territory after the conflict are key. In a complex tectonic of conflicts, we should not become an accelerator or a party to the Sunit-Shiite conflict that threatens, or the actors or catalyst of the eruption and risk formation of the Kurdish state that would drag other countries and nations into the war zone. The weight of international legal procedures is particularly appropriate in the Kurdish case, as well as the results of ongoing investigations and documentation of war crimes and criminals in the region. Several strategic rules and policies need to be mentioned in the policy instruments and solutions. One. We will not move forward if we ideologically plow the entire territory like the world of Islam, understand the world of terrorism, and we will not be able to differentiate national and national elements and the different dynamics of different countries and the necessity to support a stable and stabilising country within the Arab world, particularly Tunisia, Morocco, but also Egypt, Jordan, and extremely overloaded Lebanon. As much as this is about Muslim countries, we are interested in working with them, supporting them, including their long-term minorities in Europe. We are financing these countries indirectly. Turkey, however much of a Muslim country, remains our partner and we are interested in maintaining its internal democratic conditions and pro-Western orientation. Similarly, we must look at Egypt and the complex tectonics of its development. Two. The Czech Republic has a network of diplomatic offices in rich Gulf countries and can exert diplomatic pressure on oil states to take on more responsibility for accepting refugees from war zones in order to accept co-responsibility. We must also be able to be active on our own. Three. However, it is crucial and will be that we simply cannot tackle the crisis ourselves, either militarily or diplomatically or humanly, and therefore neither can we stop the conflict issuing migration. It follows that European Union capacity and cooperation with Western European countries are also crucial for our own interests and opportunities. In our military and diplomatic capabilities and our weight on the international stage, we are and will be primarily linked to the European Union, its cohesion and its performance. The EU's weakening cohesion policy therefore weakens our performance, the impact on tackling the causes of migration. [[15.00 hours]] Four. Historically, we have always gained significantly for our safety when we worked together to strengthen the security of others and all of Europe, and, on the contrary, we lost when we helped to break up Europe. Yes, when we liquidated the Iron Curtain and worked together to push Russian troops out of Central Europe, we strengthened Europe's security and prosperity and opened up space for our membership in NATO and the Union. We've acquired the security of a member of the West. Undermining this platform of our influence is gambling with our own security, position and influence. Poland understood, hopefully we'll understand too. Five. A few more words to Germany and to the German procedure that is widely criticized here. I, too, am curious to see how Germany can handle its situation and, of course, how it will be handled by the entire European Union, the Western part of which focuses on active aid to overloaded states, including Eurosceptic Britain. I wonder if we would still discuss our topic without the German migration catharsis at a time when the vast majority of refugees around their countries remain. Whether the matter would finally and seriously be discussed by the UN General Assembly, whether the debate on active action against the Islamic State and the debate on resolving the disaster in Syria, Libya and Iraq would even begin. I don't know if this catharsis was the intention of German politics, but it did. Germany has refused international engagement for years because of its war history. This period is clearly a past, and Germany will actively influence international developments. We have to count on it. Six. A separate chapter is the direction of humanitarian and development aid in a large volume, where we and the Union have considerable unused opportunities to stabilise countries at risk of loss of cohesion and the risks of internal conflicts. Allow me, then, a few brief conclusions. Firstly, it is necessary to seriously and quickly build our own defense capabilities and the ability of the military to operate against the enemy of the new generation and in the allied structures. Secondly, it must be made clear that either we defeat the Islamic State and reorganize the collapsed states, or we absorb the massive exodus of their population. Thirdly, we need to combat the Islamic State by strengthening and regulating the European Union, not by helping the Islamic State by bringing into trouble and weakening the European Union's cohesion. Fourthly, let us not succumb to the Islamic State in one of its main objectives, which is the instigation of hysterical and indifferent fear of the people of Islamic countries, regardless of their origin, nationality, real intentions and motives for their escape. Fifth, we are also stowaways in humanitarian and development aid. For example, we are very limping with our three million euros against the Netherlands, which spends 7 percent of its budget, or Germany, which spent 260 million euros on humanitarian and development purposes in Iraq in 2014. So we have a lot of work to do, especially at home. Let's start with her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u142	That was Mr. Ivan Gabal. Before we continue, I will make a note to the President of the Chamber of Deputies: from 15 to 17 o'clock, Mr Martin Komárek, a doctor's visit. Mrs Pastuchová from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons. He also apologizes for this afternoon's meeting and for tomorrow's meeting for reasons of health Mr Herbert Pavera and Mr Jan Zahradník from 15 o'clock for working reasons. We continue with the factual remark of Mr Bohuslav Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to take a very brief look at my previous speaker and evaluate what I've heard here today. And it's not just a debate in this House today, but basically the last six months have been recounting the same and the same things over and over again. So nothing new came up today. There are a lot of things I would agree with here. There's a lot of things I don't agree with. My views on immigration are pretty clear. Anyway, about what I have to say. Having demonstrated the structures of the European Union in dealing with the immigration crisis, as it has been so far, as I look back at history, as the crisis in Kosovo has managed, as the crisis in dealing with the immigration crisis has managed, it does not give me much assurance that if the European Union gets into other problems, because the immigration crisis is only one of the parameters of the crisis events that may arise - we can talk about the pandemic, we can talk about the real conflict at the borders of the European Union - I am not sure that the European Union in existing structures is able to deal with problems quickly, efficiently and clearly. So my appeal to the government is that, in the framework of negotiations at European Union level, they try to change the structure of the European Union so that it is far more operational and able to actually deal with things quickly and effectively. Otherwise, a lot of things have been said here that we're thinking about it, and we know what's about to happen in six months, in a year. We don't know anything! Playing prognostic is pointless. The only thing we can do is that this country will be ready to do when something happens, and it can happen so that we can be as prepared as possible and be able to deal with the consequences of what happens, as effectively as possible. So it's useless to anticipate here and prepare for specific situations. We don't know what's going to happen in March, if there's a new, bigger immigration wave, etc. So I will return to what I said here at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - I appeal to the entire assembly to take the issue of defence and efficiency of the security forces very seriously, because -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u144	Mr. Ambassador, I am a tolerance myself, but the time has passed for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u145	So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u146	Thank you. We continue with Mr Tomio Okamura's speech. A colleague, Lank, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, we meet today for two reasons. The first reason is to defend democracy, and the second reason is to defend our country's sovereignty. There can't be one without the other. The independence of our country and democracy faces the same threat today. The threat is the destruction of national states and the creation of a European multicultural superstate. Our political elites are clueless. The government of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL are also clueless. You know why? They do not care about democracy or our country's sovereignty. They say our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD is populist. I hear we're doing unrealistic politics. Submitting to Brussels, rejecting the referendum of citizens, that is the realism of this government! For our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - The SPD has proposed three times in the last four months in this Chamber of Deputies a referendum on the withdrawal of our country from the European Union. So that citizens themselves can decide their future in their own country. Government MPs of ČSSD, ANO and KDU-ČSL laughed loudly. The so-called opposition of ODS and TOP 09 hummed and banged into the benches. Dawn whistled, and the Communists disbelieved in seeing who had the courage to make such a radical proposal. Nobody's laughing anymore. They treat our government in the European Union as a protectorate government, and they have clearly instructed us from Brussels what awaits us. We have an end to independence and Islamization under the cloak of a multicultural paradise. At the same time, threats are made by economic sanctions, and even by fighting with us - supposedly xenophobic - Čech and Moravák. [[15.10 hours]] The approval of quotas is political violence against our country, and the government is at peace and does not want to continue to defend itself. We in our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD are not at peace. We're not cowards in the SPD. This is our country, and no other state has a real and natural right to decide its fate or to vote on it. If the government has decided to abandon this violence from Brussels, it violates the principle of the founder of our modern state, Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. Violence must be defended, not retreated. That's not the kind of government our country needs. The Freedom and Direct Democracy Movement therefore again calls on this government to resign. Mandatory quotas for receiving illegal immigrants are a gross violation of the sovereign rights of the Czech Republic. The Government's duty was to use all resources to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. As this has not happened, I again and repeatedly call on the government to submit a resignation and to launch early elections so that citizens can decide their country's fate. In this sense, I will also propose a resolution in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u148	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur. Mr Simeon Karamazov is absent, is duly excused, Mr David Kádner is excused, absent, Mrs Langšádlová is absent and excused, so Mr Lank has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I'm glad it's been a long time, so I'm gonna try not to stretch it out too much. I'm gonna start off with a different keg. Let me first thank you here to thank the people who are protecting our safety at the moment. I thank the police and other members who guard our borders and the space of the Czech Republic from the migration wave. I thank the workers of foreign centres who do hard and poorly paid work. They all face the risks and threats of capture and concern for illegal migrants every day. Moreover, there is a wave of criticism on their heads, blamed for the alleged mistreatment of refugees. I want to make it clear that police officers and asylum workers are doing a good and worthy job. Let's not let them be insulted, but let's respect them. They're standing in the front line at the moment. They're defending the safety of our country. And safety is the first thing that matters here. Our safety. I do not deny that many who are trying to get into Europe are in a difficult life situation. However, we have been elected citizens of the Czech Republic and we answer to them. We are responsible for the fact that people will be able to sleep peacefully, that they will not have to worry about their children. If men and women in uniform and without them do their hard work, we must do it too. Unfortunately, the government, not only in my opinion, is not doing enough. First of all, she did not do one thing: she did not bring an action against the compulsory quotas, even though the whole nation was behind it, the whole Parliament. That's where I see failure. The government simply refused to consistently defend the fundamental national interest. Interest in the security and sovereignty of the country. That is why we are proposing a referendum in which citizens can say whether they are in favour of the government defending against unfair quotas. We have no other way of forcing the government to hear the voice of citizens. As a member of the Security Committee, of course, I am well aware of the risks and threats posed by the current migration wave. But it doesn't even need to be a member of the Security Committee. Experienced foreign experts warn us quite openly. They say to us, "This is the end of you." If you don't defend yourself if you let people come to you who not only confess other values but have no respect for your values at all, it's the end of you. If you allow people to come to your home who profess the right of Sharia and the right to beat their wife, the right to stone homosexuals, the right to be superior to non-Muslims, it's the end of you. I add: if the Czech Republic allows the fundamental interests of Czech citizens to be decided in Brussels, this is the end of us. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not let this end and fight back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u150	Thank you, Mr Lank. Mr Fiedler announced that he did not insist on his application, Mr Soukup also accepted the conclusion of the meeting at noon, so now Mr Antonín Seďa, Mr Grebeníček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u151	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm gonna try to cut back on my speech, too. Dear members of the government, dear Prime Minister, colleagues. Perhaps each of us is confronted daily with the questions of citizens concerning the current migration crisis, which, in my view, radicalizes Czech society. It seems to me that we suddenly have a very large number of experts on migration asylum policy, that we could fill them with not one but several security committees. Now, seriously. I just wanted a few basic information on the fact that social democracy is a responsible political party, because it has already adopted an opinion at the beginning of this year on the solution - I stress on the solution - of the migration crisis. It therefore called on Europe, the European Union, to stop hesitating and to act. Social democracy has adopted the following eight measures: Respect and respect the rules of the Schengen area, in particular ensuring effective protection and control of external borders. The rapid establishment of facilities for the identification and registration of asylum authorisations for refugees or the return of illegal migrants to the country of origin. At the same time, a European list of safe countries must be defined. Further, intensify the fight against organised crime and human smuggling, including the European Union's common security and defence policy missions against smugglers' ships. Stabilization of collapsed states in the immediate vicinity of Europe, increasing diplomatic efforts, including United Nations soil, with the involvement of the United States of America and the Russian Federation. To increase aid to countries that are concerned with ensuring the safety and accommodation of refugees in the Middle East and to strengthen and coordinate assistance aimed at the countries from which migrants come to Europe. Cooperation on migration prevention, including special technical and economic support, needs to be strengthened with these countries. Supporting the maintenance of the voluntary nature of solidarity measures relating to the redistribution of asylum seekers within the European Union. Unacceptability of introducing quotas or other permanent measures relating to the compulsory redistribution of refugees. Refugees who obtain asylum in our country and want to live here must be provided with sufficient effective assistance for the best possible integration into society. Last measures - Europe must significantly increase the common foreign and security policy, with the main strategic objectives of which will include ensuring peace and stability in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union. I want to make a final comment on so many critical mandatory quotas. I personally and social democracy have always stood up and opposed such forced procedures, because they will lead nowhere and will do nothing. I see the problem there, too, in the actual implementation of this decision, because I have doubts not only about the correctness and feasibility, but I am convinced about the non-compliance with international law, because forced migration is not just questionable in relation to refugees, because refugees can only apply for asylum after arriving in a particular country, until then they remain illegal migrants. And so the question is what happens when they are moved, for example. to us, but they don't really ask for asylum. In theory, they should be returned, but only if the Czech Republic holds them in legally questionable detention. Also, the coordination of the activities of the three European agencies, which are actually involved in the whole asylum process, is not resolved within the European Union. It is the FRONTEX, which is responsible for the protection of external borders, the European Asylum Support Office and EUROPOL. So, in my opinion, we can expect more of the problems that these mandatory quotas will bring to us here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u152	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa for his speech and Mr Miroslav Grebeníček will take the floor, Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the currents of refugees to Europe are not merely a testimony to human tragedies, they are also evidence of the collapse of the North's ideas of helping the south. When a number of states broke out of the domination of colonial powers some time ago, optimism existed in both the Western and Eastern blocs. The West felt that the East, Africa, and other regions would go to the market system, which in them would almost automatically lead to the development of civil society and parliamentary democracy. The Eastern bloc, in turn, hoped that national liberation movements would become natural allies in the fight against capitalism. But the great dream of modernising those regions soon ended, thanks to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Their highly-interested loans, supposedly for development, were conditioned by privatization of the largest wealth of individual countries, i.e. mining and processing of mineral resources. While this accounts for the vast majority of the exports of the countries mentioned above, there is not much flowing into the Treasury from its exports, so the countries concerned are desperately short of money to pay interest on the supposedly development loan. The population of these countries, of course, is living and amplifying the crowds of refugees. However, the European Commission does not intend or cannot allocate refugee quotas to mining companies or multinational companies, so it decided to allocate quotas to individual EU countries. No, migrants are no enemy army, they're not criminals. They are economic refugees who are trying to get into better social and economic conditions. But they are also people fleeing war conflicts. Without wars, provocations, and occupations of the United States of America and the North Atlantic Alliance, arms supplies to risky countries, there would be a few dozen million fewer refugees in the world today. Hundreds of thousands of victims of war and subsequent disruption did not have to bring in numerous deaths, and the EU would not today hypocritically and cynically address the question of whether to continue to drown refugees in the Mediterranean Sea and how to fend off hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers each year. Instead of effective economic aid to the poor world, Europe's countries associated in the North Atlantic alliance, together with Američan, have invested hundreds of billions of dollars in wars, occupations and arms exports in recent years. They sent their troops to war in Afghanistan, to bomb Baghdad, Belgrade and Tripoli, to help destroy Syria and Ukraine. And only now the supporters of the US Imperial Bombing Democracy have become alarmed. It is clear that at least hundreds of thousands of survivors of war victims, occupations and conflicts directly led or provoked and funded by the United States will have to take care of the EU. The solution cannot be cheap media gestures, but not inciting intolerance, but just a change in the current aggressive, socially cruel and unscrupulous policy by the powers of the North Atlantic Alliance and their serenity pendant, the European Union. It should change in this respect, in a fundamental way, also the local foreign policy of the Czech government. Of course, between citizens and war-hungry government leaders, as has already been said here today, we cannot make an equal. The fact that many of the Czech papalas - Havel, starting with Sobotka and Sobotka - were or are more loyal to the United States and the North Atlantic Alliance than to our Republic and its citizens does not mean that Czech citizens should pay priority for what the Hellish cuisine of the United States and their powerful allies or Czech footmen has cooked. [[revival especially in the ČSSD series]] [[banging into the benches in the right side of the hall]] And even in the future, it must be made clear that for the Czech government crawling somewhere, the Czech citizens, whom no one asked for their opinion, should be lied and cheated, let alone agreed to Asian and African wars, occupations and coups. Not only opponents of American expansion, but also rationally-thinking experts from around the Washington government already know that force politics, militarisation of international relations, and international law-absorbed and unlimited use of force do not increase the security of the world. Therefore, I expect not only word games around the government and its Prime Minister. refugee quotas, but a seriously conceived policy that will move us to a real solution to an extremely serious problem. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u154	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. Mr Petr Bendl now, but he is absent, so Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u155	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, we've been discussing the immigration crisis for hours. Rather, I would like to comment on a kind of extension of this subject, on what this one example of concrete decision-making at European level on a serious subject should lead all of us to reflect and to a generalisation of the experience we have experienced in recent weeks. Our conclusions may vary. We are a democratic parliament, and I have no doubt that we will draw every other conclusion from this reflection, but I think that the subject that is being raised here in all the speeches is obvious. We here very often, and it almost concerns the vast majority of the points that we are discussing in our Parliament, we are dealing with the topic of some harmonisation of European legislation at the level of the Czech Republic, we are dealing with the problem of transposition of European law into the law of the Czech Republic. When we discuss topics such as tourism and some kind of unification and harmonisation in the field of tourism at European level, when we discuss, for example, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the harmonisation and unification of methods of promoting entrepreneurship at European level, these topics are definitely important, but they are abstract, the vast majority of Czech citizens are not so interested. On the subject of the immigration crisis, this may be the first example in which the Czech public on a topic that most citizens consider to be important, a topic that affects them in some way personally, even though their responses may be irrational and even in some cases incorrect, it is the first example where we are experiencing on our own the practical application of that system of the Polish model of decision-making at the level of the European Union. [[15.30 hours]] We have heard the wording here today in some speeches that we have experienced nothing but a democratic mechanism in which we have been overvoted by democratic decisions, and that this is an analogy of something that we are normally experiencing on Parliament's soil, and that it should not surprise us at all. I think that this reasoning is fundamentally flawed, because democracy does not have just one side, i.e. the final aspect of the decision-making mechanism, when representatives in a body, such as Parliament or at Council level or any other European institutions, decide in the form of one or more models of majority voting, but there is no way to separate democracy from the system within which democratic representation arises and is generated. At this level, the system that we are experiencing on a regular basis is clearly missing every day in this Parliament. What is its essence? The fact that all the citizens of this country decide on these representatives by voting, and the moment the outcome comes, each of us, including the citizens of our country, feel inner loyalty to the outcome, even though we are overvoted, we are willing to accept it, it is a principle that we accept and it is a game that we are inherently willing and loyal to each of us to play, and so we all know, in this House, that every moment he pulls a saw in this House, once he has a majority that, for the second time he has a majority, but at the moment we are in the minority, we accept it and wait for another opportunity when we can become representatives of the majority opinion. I'm afraid the decision-making mechanism that we have now experienced doesn't meet this quality. Many speeches and speeches by the Prime Minister, who mentioned here that, after all, the European Council was not for him an institution within which we would be able to enforce our majority will on a consensual principle, thus revealing the much deeper problems of the Poli-Sabon arrangement. I want to remind you that, in recent days and weeks, perhaps months, we are hearing more and more speeches from the top representatives of the European Union, which stress the idea that more Europe is a kind of recipe for a lot of Europe's problems, strengthening majority decision-making. The last time was very loud in Mr. Juncker's important performance. I am afraid that we should take an example from this situation and be prepared for the fact that similar topics may not only await us in the future in the event of an immigration crisis. Today, the topic of unification of standards, benefits for immigrants is being opened, and more and more often the topics such as the need to harmonise fiscal systems, the harmonisation of social systems are being raised from the mouth of European Union officials. And that, too, will be the topics for which, unlike light bulbs, harmonisation in the field of tourism or promotion of entrepreneurship, citizens of the Czech Republic will increasingly understand that these are topics that are inherently relevant to them. We, representatives of the Czech Parliament, should understand this more and more, because these issues will concern whether or not this legislative body still has some scope to implement its will on the territory of the Czech Republic. As an example to me, I would quote the European Commissioner for Immigration's statement from recent days, which called on the political representation of European countries, individual locals to stop taking into account the political consequences and policies of their countries' political cycles. And he literally said: I would like to tell European politicians to stop thinking about the political consequences and simply do what they think is right. The Commissioner seems to know what is right in this regard. I am deeply convinced that this messing with the armed grenade of loyalty to the public of European countries, with European integration as such, is very dangerous and that the issue of the immigration crisis was only the first balloon, the first example of which shows the irresponsibleness of this policy. For years, many people in the Czech Republic have reminded us that the right method of integration is the search for the smallest really common denominator of those countries. Other people wanted to look for the most possible, regardless of whether it was real. For immigration, we first tried what the consequences were. For the first time, we have experienced what it is like to be overvoted, and I firmly believe that our state's leaders will learn some lessons from this when it comes to topics of no less importance, precisely those issues that concern, for example, fiscal union or social system unification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u156	I thank Mr Martin Novotný. Mr Augustin Mr Karel Andrle Sylor and then President of ODS with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u157	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Like all of you, I've been listening all day to various proposals for measures that we could do. And I realized that in order to implement these objectives and measures, we need to strengthen the forces, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior very strongly, I mean the budget. I believe, or I believe, that without increasing the budget of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence, we are unable to do anything that we have said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u158	Thank you for the factual remark and for keeping time. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u159	I'd say with a proper application, 'cause even though I have priority rights, I'm not skipping anyone. I'd like to ask you a question about the Prime Minister. When I think of his performance tonight, he basically told us that he recommended that we not go down the path of Slovakia, that we should not file a lawsuit against the European Court of Justice, even though his vice-premier said so, even the Home Secretary said that we had an analysis that this procedure was not correct under legislation. But he says that this is because we would be excluded from the next debate. And I don't understand that statement. How does what a free sovereign state can do mean bringing a lawsuit before the European Court of Justice, how can anyone think that bringing such a lawsuit will exclude us from another debate? Who told you that? Or is that your guess? Or are we at risk in Europe? I'd like to hear it. If we have legal legal remedies or judicial remedies, we can use them. So who's to say that if we sue, we'll be expelled from the next debate? Or are you just making an alibi again? If you said "I think it's wrong," but you say "they'd vote us out of the debate." Who are they? Why would they exclude us from the debate? And what are we going to do next time they overrule us and approve a permanent redistribution mechanism? What are we gonna do? And one of the arguments behind this procedure may be: well, when we did a one-time thing, you didn't fight back, you accepted it, so when it's one time, it can be the second or the third time. I would like to explain the link between bringing an action and excluding it from another debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u160	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u161	Thank you for the floor. I asked the Prime Minister, it is about an hour and a half or two hours, whether it would be possible to answer yes or not, whether the Czech Republic will bring an action, whether it will not comply with quotas, and within his speech, whether it will reject a permanent mechanism to redistribute immigrants, and if the Czech Republic will be revoted, whether we will bring an action in this case as a Republic. I beg this answer, because I think I can answer that. It can be answered very briefly and I think it will be of interest not only to us, but to all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u162	Thank you. Mr Bendl's application is therefore left. Since he's still not here, his application is forfeit. Since I have no application for a general debate, I ask if there is an interest in the final word. Prime Minister, Minister, rapporteur? The rapporteur does. The Prime Minister will only ask for a final word after a detailed debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In the final words of the rapporteur, I would like to highlight one moment that I consider to be crucial. I think that even today's debate has shown that the Chamber of Deputies is a little more aware of its actions that it will ever take precisely to create a barrier for the Czech Government to act. I have the impression that it was kind of formal before, that when the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution, sooner or later, we completely forgot about them and stopped following what we had imposed on ourselves, and we did not enforce them. Today I feel a little emancipatory ethos, if I may say so, in the House, which is aware of the need to give the government a mandate to have a government that derives its legitimacy from the House's consent, i.e. to gain the House's trust, so that the government then also confesses to the House, i.e. to confess to the representatives of the citizens who were elected as Members. This is a very serious moment. I feel that we are sometimes forgetting this, and the public has no idea how important it is for these elements to be very accentuated by us in the performance of our mandate. That's the first thing I wanted to say. Second thing. I'm not going to discuss individual proposals here. I think each of us listened well to our colleagues, agreed to something, disagreed with something. I think the debate was necessary and useful. I expect the government to do better than that obligation imposed by the resolution of 12 February, this is that it will inform the Chamber of Deputies on a regular basis before it goes anywhere, but also on that level when it says "yes, I am going there with this mandate, but I have a step B or step C in case my mandate is not adopted in the first variant." Otherwise, the debate is losing its meaning, otherwise it's just a game of posting with a mandate from the Chamber of Deputies for the Government, otherwise it's a general matter with which the government can do what it wants afterwards. I have some reservations that have been raised here from the Prime Minister's mouth, because I believe that if he says that they no longer talked about quotas at the summit because they did not consider it important, he says 'we talked about real priorities', then I would like to say that those real priorities, as they feel, have been spoken about for at least half a year at all possible levels. It is like protecting the external Schengen borders, which has been informed by Frontex representatives long before how many hundreds of thousands to millions of refugees are coming. The European Union has not taken any measures, I even remember how, about four years ago, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano, who spoke about how desperate the situation was then on Lampedusa, and basically European institutions did nothing at all. So talk today about finally talking about real priorities, so I'm -- forgive me -- I don't get it. The first priority is to plug in a leaky sieve to protect external borders. Everyone's known that for many months. The second priority is to establish control mechanisms that separate economic calculators from those who are entitled to international protection. This is also talked about forever, and nothing is happening. The third thing that is absolutely necessary and is also mentioned after months, to hold migrants in territories outside the European Union, and there is no other way than to send some significant money from the European Union in order to ensure that people in those camps are at a decent level and not to give them an incentive to go to Europe. There's nothing going on here either. Well, I have reservations about the fact that now we're finally talking about real priorities. I feel that the right time has passed, that just those people, if they started talking about those priorities in time, but also acting, would not be in Europe now. Now they're here, and we have to talk about whether the Czech Republic is going to take the initiative that if Germany opens its arms, then it will find out that it can't handle and divide refugees for everyone, and we will say yes, we have tried to reject quotas, but then, without reaching our position to the end, that is, by the lawsuit, we will knock our heels off and begin to beat the theory that we want to ensure peace within the European Union. I don't like that at all. I needed to make these reservations here. What I am most concerned about is that this silent consent given by the Czech Republic to withdraw from the quota problem will clearly lead to the adoption of the permanent redistribution mechanism. We have a resolution prepared for this, which I hope will be confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies, but I am afraid it will go the same way as with the quotas. So much for my final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u164	Thank you. I am opening up a detailed debate. First, with Mrs Černochová's priority right. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask that, after the end of the detailed debate, we can take a 20-minute break as the Civic Democrats' Club to clarify what amendments have been made here and read them in peace. So after the close of the detailed debate, please take 20 minutes for the ODS club break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u166	Okay, thank you, I'll count on it. Now, in a detailed debate, she is the first rapporteur. Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u167	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Citizen's Democratic Party MEP, which we sent you yesterday so that individual Members' clubs can get acquainted with this resolution and, if necessary, take their views on it in a timely manner. I have to load them in a detailed debate. I'm not going to read the justification, I'm just going to read the points that we're proposing: 1. The Chamber of Deputies insists on a negative position on the compulsory quotas for the division of refugees in individual Member States of the European Union. - That only confirms what we said on February 12th. - Since the Czech Republic was re-voted to the meeting of the Interior Ministers on this issue, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to join the proceedings before the European Union Court. 2. Parliament's Chamber of Deputies rejects the permanent redistribution mechanism - or the Prime Minister said the permanent relocation mechanism - these are simply monstrous terms that I do not want to say, simply that the quotas will be introduced once and for all - to introduce the redistribution of refugees by means of mandatory quotas for individual Member States of the European Union for an unlimited period of time. 3. The Chamber of Deputies rejects the possibility of uniting benefits for refugees in the countries of the European Union. - I have talked about it, it is proposed by Commissioner Oettinger, and I think it is one of the very dangerous things that could touch us in the next step. 4. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to take an active stand for the legal change in the position of the Czech Republic in the European Union, which will enable us to maintain autonomy on fundamental issues of state sovereignty. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to take advantage of the earliest possible opportunity for the opening of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. [[15.50 hours]] 5. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to present a detailed procedure for examining refugees to be admitted to the Czech Republic. I'll say a few words about that. This is about ensuring security in the Czech Republic. The German government has announced that a third of the people holding Syrian passports are not Syřan. Representatives of the Italian, Egyptian, Libyan government have stated that Mediterranean criminal gangs are smuggling into Europe among refugees fighters of the Islamic State. I therefore propose this resolution. 6. The Chamber of Deputies supports the government in preparing effective protection of national borders of the Czech Republic if the migration crisis escalates. 7. The Chamber of Deputies supports interventions against smuggling ships and calls on the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic to use all possibilities to obtain UN approval for this plan. 8. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government for detailed information about the direct humanitarian assistance provided so far in refugee camps outside the territory of the European Union, which were provided from the budget of the Czech Republic. 9. The Chamber of Deputies notes that it is ready to approve, at the request of the Government, the necessary changes in the relevant chapters of the state budget as well as for 2015 so that the money spent contributes to the detention of migrants outside the Czech Republic. 10. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to put pressure on the EU's high-level negotiations to speed up a change in the EU budget in order to strengthen the resources to apprehend migrants in camps outside the EU. With this resolution proposed by the ODS, we are mapping a whole range of issues that are from political to economic, and we are trying to affect them in a dimension not only of the Czech Republic but also of the EU. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u168	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, with another proposal in a detailed debate by Mrs Chalánková, a colleague, Mr Marek Černoch, will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the motion for a resolution which I am presenting for the TOP 09 but also for a wider number of Members, as I have negotiated support with other political parties and with other Members of different political parties. I am honored that at this moment, which is not easy for our country, we can bring a motion for a resolution that could show the common will of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I am now reading the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u170	I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. We have devoted a great deal of time to this point, I think, and I would like us to devote time and resolution so that we can make the right decision after the short break. So please listen to the proposals in detail in the debate so that you can vote according to your best knowledge and conscience. Thank you. Proceed, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u171	Resolution on the current situation in the area of migration and its solution within the European Union. The Chamber of Deputies, concerned by the current wave of migrants to the states of the European Union, wishing to help refugees in particular from areas where war is taking place, or threatened with death or persecution from racial, religious or national grounds, or for holding certain political views or belonging to a particular social group, who perceive the concerns of a part of the Czech public that a large proportion of migrants are merely going on as refugees and therefore do not meet the conditions for granting asylum or additional protection, and that massive migration can substantially change the overall character of the Czech society in the longer term, recalling that among migrants there is a high percentage of refugees from the countries of the Western Balkans, based on the fact that in the community of countries between which freedom of establishment and the free movement of persons without border controls, it is necessary to address the issue of refugees together and united, wishing to maintain the achieved level of European integration I. Notes (a) that key decisions which may have a major impact on individual EU countries or which individual states might feel existentially threatened are to be taken unanimously; and (b) that decisions relating to the management of massive migration flows are such key decisions; II. expresses its opposition to the introduction of permanent mechanisms for the relocation of refugees into and within the EU on the basis of the mandatory redistribution key, so-called quotas, III. expresses support for such an approach of the government of the Czech Republic and generally such solutions as will lead (a) to reduce the overall migration pressure on the EU; (b) to maintain cooperation within the framework of the so-called the Schengen area, (c) to preserve the free movement of persons within it. The EU's decision on migration must now focus in particular on the systemic causes of EU failure in detecting and eliminating illegal migration. The EU institutions must have a well-thought-out, long-term, concept that is based on the causes of migration and will try to prevent and minimise it. IV. It expresses support for such an approach by the Government of the Czech Republic and generally such measures, which will result in the elimination of procedural shortcomings in the places of first entry of migrants in the territory of the EU State without undue delay, respectively. so-called Schengen area. These measures are intended to lead, in particular, to: (a) to protect the external borders of the European Union more effectively and to improve the control of illegal migration flows towards EU countries; (b) establishing detention facilities for migrants in transit countries, so-called the concept of hotspots for the timely identification and distinction of persons who could obtain international protection in accordance with international law and persons who obviously are not entitled to such protection, even before their entry into the territory of one of the EU States, (c) establishing an effective method of return for non-qualified persons to grant international protection. These illegal migrants should be returned as quickly as possible from the point of first entry into the Schengen area. V. Parliament's Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government (a) to promote a policy which would aim closely at the objective causes of migration, and in particular through foreign and development policy and humanitarian aid, both within the framework of measures at national level and in promoting common practices within the EU. In this sense, the Czech Republic should strive for an effective European Neighbourhood Policy that will stabilise the migration-relevant regions in close proximity to the European Union; (b) to further limit the illegal accompanying effects of migration, such as smuggling of migrants in particular. The suppression of this phenomenon must be effectively strengthened, both at national level and by effective measures at EU level affecting the cross-border nature of this organised crime. VI. Parliament's Chamber of Deputies stresses the right of each country to choose the way and parameters for the so-called. Economic, state-controlled and controlled migration and notes that economic migration cannot be a means of comparing demographic deficits in the Czech Republic and that it considers complex and active pro-family policy as the main tool for maintaining the size of the Czech population. VII. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to act in accordance with this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u172	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr Marek Černoch, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u173	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, honourable Government, Members of the KDU-ČSL have also contributed to what Mrs Jitka Chalánková has just read, so we are calling for these resolutions. I'd make a brief comment. Item number VI. stresses the right of each country to choose the method and parameters for the so-called Economically controlled and managed migration, and notes that economic migration cannot be a means of comparing the demographic deficit in the Czech Republic and that it considers complex and active pro-family policy as the main tool for maintaining the size of the Czech population. [[16.00 hours]] I'm saying this because there's a lot of confusion in terms. We often hear business people say we lack workers, we call them migrants. However, what migrants will match the vacuum in the labour market must depend on the state. Every state has the right, the supreme right to choose what, how many and whether it will accept any migrants at all. This cannot work by dictating these conditions under the cloak of a common migration policy. And we also stress the fact that these labour market holes, which can be partly levelled for a short period of time, say, workers from abroad, must not prevail over national policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this country needs its own people, this country needs its own children, and not to import them from Africa or Asia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u174	I thank my colleague Benešík. Now, Mr Marek Černoch, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u175	Thank you. I must say that I am very sorry that I did not receive the answer from the Prime Minister to that clear question, and I believe I firmly believe that the answer will come in his final speech. If there is no clear answer to the question whether the Czech Republic will join the European Court of Justice, it is a mockery. I would like to propose a resolution for the Dawn - a national coalition: 1. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic not to respect quotas for the redistribution of immigrants and to accept voluntarily illegal economic immigrants. 2. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, like Slovakia, to defend itself against quotas at the European Court of Justice. 3. The Chamber of Deputies also calls on the Government to reject permanent mechanisms for the redistribution of immigrants. 4. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to revote the Czech Republic in the European Parliament in rejecting the mechanism for the permanent redistribution of migrants to bring an action against this decision before the European Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we too take this situation very seriously, and we believe that today a resolution will be adopted that will really put the Czech Republic at the level of a sovereign state that will not be dictated by the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u176	Good afternoon. Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. Another enrollment is Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u177	So, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a resolution for our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD that we would vote on, and therefore only briefly justify it. The motion for a resolution for our SPD movement is: Mandatory quotas for receiving illegal immigrants are a gross violation of the sovereign rights of the Czech Republic. The Government's duty was to use all resources to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. As this did not happen and the government resigned from these efforts, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a resignation. And let me explain in just a few more minutes. The government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement agreed to receive thousands of illegal immigrants from hostile countries and from hostile cultures, emphasising that the first 1,500 illegal immigrants had already decided to accept them in July, when there were no quotas, all against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens of the Czech Republic. This government has no mandate for these irreversible actions, which will cause great social tensions and an increase in crime in the future, since until recently, government officials have said that there is no problem with immigrants and there is no need to prepare for it. The result of this government incompetence and servility towards Brussels and Washington is the acceptance of thousands of unwanted invaders against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens, all at the expense of social security for our citizens. This government has decided to spend billions of crowns on illegal migrants at the expense of our citizens. This government should resign as it violated its actions, when it adopted the dictation of Brussels without resistance, the sovereignty of our Republic. Again, against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens of the Czech Republic, and this is a very serious moment. These are non-refundable steps that will affect generations of further development in the Czech Republic. At this serious moment, we should allow citizens to express themselves firmly in the referendum - you have already rejected this proposal here in the House three times - or in the new early elections. And I ask you, Government, to allow democracy to citizens, not your dictatorship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u178	I thank Mr Okamur and, at this serious moment, Mr Robin Böhnisch has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u179	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. In order to continue to consider which resolution I will support in the detailed debate in the vote, I would at least need to know from Mr Okamura the list of those hostile countries he spoke of in that resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u180	So I will reproduce - Mr Okamura here screams that it is Saudi Arabia, for information to others. Mr Kováčik, Member of the KSČM MP, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we have reached the very end of the difficult debate, not only in terms of content, but also in terms of formal debate, the debates that the citizens of the Czech Republic are waiting for. I am convinced that it will eventually be possible to adopt a resolution that will have some sense that it will not be merely a slap in the water. I would, therefore, like to remind you of the motion for a resolution, which was announced in his speech by the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip, here in a detailed debate, to reload. Before I do so, I must say that we have followed closely the motions for resolutions that have so far been made here, and that we agree with some parts of these resolutions or those proposals so much that, if they are voted on in part, in part, in part, we will also support them. However, our motion for a resolution, which we are putting forward here, is a sort of, I would say, a comprehensive proposal, but not completely closed, but accessible to possible further responses to the development of the situation. So the proposal is this: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. (a) expressing great concern that even after the meeting of the Heads of Government of the Visegrad Group, decisions on quotas have not been able to prevent the European institutions from deforming the basic pillars of the construction of an integrating Europe; (b) it expresses great concern that the agreement that was made in Prague and which was concluded in the Czech Presidency of the Czech Republic in V4 was not respected both by Poland but, in particular, by the Czech Republic at the next meeting of the Prime Ministers following the unsuccessful meeting of the ministers of the interior of the European Union countries. 2. Asks the Government of the Czech Republic to (a) all available legal and diplomatic procedures have prevented the application of quotas for the allocation of migrants to the Czech Republic; (b) ordering the Minister of Foreign Affairs to contribute to the peaceful settlement of fighting in Syria, in particular the United Nations, the European Union, the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation, but also in NATO, in order to address the causes of the migration wave, including in North Africa; (c) has ordered the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Interior to insist on the performance of external border protection tasks under the Schengen Treaty in negotiations in the institutions of the European Union; d) further worked to secure the state border of the Czech Republic if the protection of the external borders of the European Union fails, and finally (e) to present a report on how social, health and school systems are prepared to enter an unidentified number of persons who do not know the Czech language and are not insured in the Czech Republic. So much for the motion for a resolution which has been drawn up and submitted by the KSČM parliamentary club. [[16.10 hours]] Like I said, it's a proposal that's comprehensive. It is very general on the one hand, which affects the width, on the other hand it gives very specific requirements on how the Czech Government, which is derived from this Chamber of Deputies, is to behave in our view in solving this problem. I am asking not only to pay attention but also to support these motions for resolutions. Since I have asked that the various proposals that have been put forward so far be voted in part, I ask that this proposal be voted in part as it has been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u182	Thank you to President Kováčik. Mrs Chalánková, who is now duly applied for. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u183	Thank you for the floor. Let me read a minor legal correction to my resolution. It concerns the Roman III provisions, which will read in a new form: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies expresses its support for such an approach by the Government of the Czech Republic and - a comprehensive solution that will lead - and further the text is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u184	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. If that's not the case... Sorry, rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I no longer come up with a proposal. But since it will follow, when all the proposals are tabled, I would like to ask the clubs to discuss a possible procedure at the same time as the proposals that have been made. We have heard a proposal for separate votes here. I, as I have been going over the various motions for resolutions so quickly so far, I think that we should proceed in such a way that each of these proposals can be handled separately, i.e. I would propose this procedure for all of them. I'm asking the clubs to change their minds during the break, because I'm going to suggest a procedure like this to speed up our negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u186	Thank you, ma'am. Now with priority right, first Mr Sklenák, after him President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u187	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to join the appeal so that the deputies can discuss the possible procedure. I have the opposite view of the rapporteur. As I have seen the motions for resolutions, they form certain meaningful units. And I do not think, on the basis of the experience I have in this House, that voting in part would be more sensible than the way the resolution as a whole has been proposed by individual translators. But I'm sure we'll get back to that after the break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u188	Yes, we'll get back to that in the procedure. Now President Kováčik, after him Mrs Chalánková. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u189	Thank you for the floor. Since I have requested in my previous speech that all proposals be voted separately, I am joining the proposal tabled by the rapporteur here. Just like she said in here, that's what I meant. So I insist and we support the proposal to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u190	Thank you. Mrs Chalánková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u191	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, as the petitioner for my motion for a resolution, that my motion for a resolution should also be voted in one whole, that is, en bloc. It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u192	Thank you. If no one really applies anymore, I will conclude a detailed debate. Now the final words should follow. However, Mrs Černochová has asked for a 20-minute break after the end of the detailed debate, which is just now. So I'm declaring a 20-minute break. I'll meet you here at 16.33.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 1633 hours and a 20-minute pause has passed. Mr Roman Sklenák, President Faltýnek the Czechoslovak Parliamentary Club, is the first with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u194	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club, to sign up for the motion for a resolution tabled here by Mrs Chalánková. We, as the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, are aware of the importance of this resolution, in what form and with what strong support a resolution on this serious issue will be approved. That is why my colleague Chalánková and others have tried to create a resolution that would receive such broad support. My ambition initially was that it would be best if the entire Chamber of Deputies, or at least an overwhelming majority, agreed on a resolution. I think that her resolution will have the broadest support for voting. For this reason, I also propose that it be voted first and, as the applicant has asked, that it be voted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u195	Thank you, President Sklenák. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, President Kováčik, President Stanjura and President Mihola, is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u196	Afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to join the ANO club's opinion on what my colleague Sklenák said here for social democracy. We have also been involved in certain changes and modifications to the proposal by my colleague Chalánková and our parliamentary club will support this de facto joint proposal. We also ask and ask that en bloc be put to the vote and that it be discussed first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u197	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Mr Pavel Kováčik, the President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club, after whom he is President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, you know that I am quite a calm person and that I am not just upset by something, but when I hear here that it should be a common will and that the Chalánková resolution has been prepared together to ensure that the support is as broad as possible, then I ask why all clubs have not really been approached to cooperate, so that the support is really as broad as possible. We could also work together, we'd like to work together. After all, I have found that a number of points are almost the same or almost identical, or at least the same meaning as those presented by the KSČM MEP. We should have been approached, too. I don't know if we were the only ones who weren't approached to cooperate, or if there were more such cases. Believe me, that is why I asked to be voted on individually after the points, because a number of points and other motions for resolutions other than the Communist proposal are acceptable to the Communists and we would also vote for them, we would support them! If you want to see our preparations to really trust me on the vote, it's on my desk, and most of the time I have an "A," that means yes, that means support. What's happened now reminds me of the screaming of crocodile tears, that some will agree that it should be as broad as possible and that everyone will support them and that everyone has worked on it, and above the sea, we will go quiet, calm and peaceful, and we will break up with the fact that we have worked something out. There has been a discussion here, and I tend to think that it may sometimes be about Members of the first, second, third and fourth categories. Not only Members of the first, second, third and fourth categories, the clubs appear to be first, second, third and fourth categories. I remind you once again that if one can believe that this is a united will or a common will, there must also be joint work. I claim that neither I, as President of the MP club nor Vojtěch Filip, as Chairman of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, have been invited to cooperate on the preparation of this material, so it cannot be a common will. And understand that when I vote on this material as a whole, I do not even want it to be voted on in part so that we can, despite the fact that we have not been there, support some of this by abstaining from voting on the overall material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u199	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek, after him President Mihola, after him President Stanjura, sorry, in reverse, I apologise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u200	Thank you. Just very briefly. TOP 09 and the Mayors are an opposition club, but we have declared from the very beginning that we will not abuse this situation and do not want to abuse it to produce opposition political points in attacks on the government. However much we might be able to read in some details, so what we consider most important is that the Czech Republic can deal with this situation with dignity, efficiency and not unnecessarily scare citizens, because sometimes we scare them for nothing. We will therefore support this resolution. We generally support the government in its approach to immigrants. I would just like to ask the Prime Minister that all his ministers speak with a similarly loyal voice. Sometimes we feel that we have several governments on immigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u201	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, President Stanjura, following him, President Mihola, followed by President Černoch with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u202	Thank you for the floor. I do not want to argue with my colleague Sklenák and look for a loophole that we will vote on sooner or later and declare which resolution will probably be adopted by the largest number of votes. The resolutions go side by side, they do not go against each other, so the resolutions that we have proposed that you do not want to vote on will be voted on. You have the right, but it is not fair - a two-page resolution written in Brussels language, incomprehensible, pathetic vote as a whole. I suggest we vote on all parts separately, each part separately. Of course, you can outvote us. Then we cannot support it as a whole. Then you don't find the great support you've declared. If you really wanted it, you would have discussed the motion for a resolution with those who have a more critical view of government policy than the TOP 09. You chose in advance to discuss those you assumed were their legitimate political position closer to the government. The rest of us learned about this together with the revised resolution when I put it on the table from Mrs Chalánková, who was the only one who handed it to me, sometime at 15.35, which is 66 minutes ago. [[16.40 hours]] So we asked for a break so that we could consult on the text. So the next time we're gonna be heartily saying how we worked it together, name who worked it together, and tell me why the others didn't have a chance to enter the text. You wrote the whole thing down, and I wish it was the last time that I would take your diction and perceive the concerns of social democracy about how some part of the vote will turn out, and it reminds me that, as usual, the negotiations on foreign policy have provoked opposition. The government does not comply with the resolution of February at all to inform us on a regular basis. Only if we convince you, under the proposed point of opposition sometimes accepted votes that it will get on the agenda. I believe that it will be different next time that the next time the government will come alone and we will not have to break in and propose extraordinary points, and then you will only follow the resolution that we adopted in February. This toothless resolution, which you are proposing, which is not at all dealing with the situation that has arisen, with the fact that the government has not been able to implement the resolution and mandate of the February Chamber of Deputies, does not solve anything, but is based on the fact that it will like it in Europe, so I understand who and how he created it and what he wanted to avoid. But we don't solve the problem. In principle, we accept that we have been overvoted. You completely avoided the open position of the State Secretary in the debate, which contradicted what the Home Secretary said, and I have no reason not to believe him, he said: we knew it, we knew it, we deliberately moved it, we knew that the Polák would not be with us, we knew that they would overvote us, but we admitted it this way. At the same time, you guys were looking at the way you're gonna fight for it to your last breath. And with this resolution, which I'm probably not going to solve when I'm based on who's involved in his preparation. Let's put the problem behind us. Yes, it is indeed such a European, nice, Brussels-free resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u203	Thank you to President Stanjur. I would just like to say to Mr Jandák that, although I love him, the debate is unfortunately closed and I cannot give him the floor. [[Member Jandak responds loudly in front of the speaker: I just wanted to wish Mirek Kalousek, he was a mastermind.]] Another with priority rights is President Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the KDU-ČSL club joins in supporting the resolution, as my colleague Sklenák, Mrs Chalánková, colleague Faltýnek, has already said, when we have also contributed significantly through our Members to shaping this resolution here. But I would also like to - I also welcome this resolution that it is not really just a coalition issue, but that we can find a common tone with at least part of the opposition. I would like to say for the KDU-ČSL club that we have devoted ourselves honestly but also to resolutions delivered to us by ODS, KSČM and Dawn clubs. We haven't forgotten any of them. Personally, I have no objection to voting in part, individually, on those resolutions. But I think it is precisely because many fundamental points overlap, so it will probably not be against the mind or it may not be against the mind of many of you to support this joint resolution of four clubs, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u205	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, President Černoch, after him, President Filip. [[Gesticulation among other club presidents.]] Yes, Chairman Filip. Yes, the boys made a deal. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u206	I have to say, we haven't been consulted either. We weren't working on it. It's a shame. Perhaps it is a good thing that resolutions will be voted separately from each club, because, of course, I think it would be most ideal if one resolution came out from all over the Chamber of Deputies, because this matter and issue really affects everyone and we should act in it uniformly. However, the moment social democracy signed up for it here... In just a short history, I will remember the statements made by Mr. Dienstbier about the fact that we can accept 15,000 immigrants, the attitude of Minister Pelikán, who claims that we must accept quotas, so I think that the positions will not be uniform. Of course, we have been through all the motions for resolutions very carefully. I think we are very much in agreement with the resolution tabled here by the ODS that there are points that are almost identical. And it's really a shame that everything didn't work out together. However, I think it would be good if we voted on these points individually, not taking it en bloc, to proceed in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u207	Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. Now Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to inform Miroslav Kalousek, through the President, that this is the solid block of the opposition that supports the government. I thank Miroslav Kalousek for showing the exact opposite of his words in his actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u209	Now, Chairman Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u210	Unlike our President, I would like to congratulate Mr Kalousek. It's really a masterpiece.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u211	Excuse me, please congratulate Mr. Kalousek here only through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u212	I just said I wanted to congratulate you. And I ask you, Mr President, to do so by your means. [[Thank you.]] This is indeed a masterpiece, because for everyone, almost everyone, especially for some parties of the government coalition, Mr. Kalousek is like a red rag for a bull to unite at once and all follow Mr. Kalousek. He won. You've joined him. Then congratulations. But I didn't want that at first. Only to my colleague Mihol, who said, by your means, Mr President, that the KSČM, ODS and Dawn clubs, that the government coalition or the great coalition of this, sorry, Mr Kalouskův's coalition did not forget. You guys really haven't forgotten about us. You handed us out just before the vote, some of you, your... You guys just bailed on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u213	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u214	Thank you for the congratulations I take from Mr President to pass it on to my colleague Jitka Chalánková, because Kalousek, however, has made this proposal, has done so on the basis of the long-term consistent position that the TOP 09 has on immigration and on government policy in this matter. We just have this opinion. We're an opposition club. [[16.50 hours]] We are very inconvenient opposition, as you can often find out, where we differ. But where we see the problem of the Czech Republic as a key issue - and this is not only the Czech Republic's key problem, but the whole of Europe and we care about the common Europe - so we follow our programme consistently and according to our principles and do not abuse the situation that we must be an opposition at all costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u215	Thank you to President Kalousek. I don't see any more priority rights. So we get to the final words. I ask the Minister's final words to the rapporteur, if any. There's no interest. I'm registering three propositions for the procedure. Firstly, the first proposal by President Kováčik, who proposed to vote on points. Subsequently, the same proposal by the rapporteur, Mrs Němcová, to vote after points. And then there's the counterproposal of President Sklenák to vote on the proposals as a whole. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u216	I didn't see it that way, but I hope I'm right. That only what the Social Democrats wrote with the TOP, with KDU and with YES, they want to do it together. And so we do not want it together and we say that in that case we cannot support it, even though we would be able to support many parts, most of this text. But if you mix it together, for example, with the sentence you have written that you wish to maintain the European Union's existing integration rate, we, as citizens' democrats, cannot agree. Because it is this achieved degree of integration that has enabled us to be overvoted on the Council of Interior Ministers. And I think that this is the thing to change, which is to be opened, and that these treaties are to be changed and another mechanism is to be adopted so that we cannot be overvoted on the fundamental security of the state. But I firmly hope that this is not what Vice-President Gazdík said, that perhaps our proposal, which will be ten points, and we propose that everyone be voted on separately. It is precisely so that each of you can join each of these resolutions, because you may not like all ten as a whole. So I believe that there will be a separate vote on each item on our resolution, which Mrs Němcová has delivered. Because if you had forced us to vote together on our resolution, that would have been too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u217	First of all, Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák. After that, President Kalousek, rapporteur, Mrs Němcová, President Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u218	Yes, it's like my previous speaker said. I think that we should respect that if the petitioner expresses a wish for a resolution to be voted on together. That is what Mrs Chalánková did. And I think, as I have also said, based on the experience we have here, when eight resolutions are proposed, then they are voted on by the sentences, and then when you look at what we actually approve as the Chamber of Deputies, it doesn't even make much sense together. So here's the petitioner's wish to vote en bloc. We want to respect and support this wish and, of course, we have nothing against the other proposals to be voted on after a single word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u219	If you don't mind, I will give the floor to President Kalousek, President Černoch, but I will propose a procedure as a final in such a case as the President to propose a rapporteur. And either we agree to the procedure, or we don't agree with it, and there will be counterproposals. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u220	Thank you. I consider the ODS position completely legitimate and respect it respectfully. I would just like to remind you at that moment that the existing European integration rate defined by the Treaty of Lisbon, that the ratification of this Treaty in this House was promoted by my Prime Minister and Chairman of the ODS, Mirek Topolánek, and I was very proud of him at that time, and I was very supportive of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u221	Thank you, and now with priority rights, President Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u222	We also thank and repeat, we propose separate votes. It certainly concerns our resolution, but, of course, I think it would be a good idea for us to vote separately all the resolutions that will be heard here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u223	I will ask the rapporteur for a proposal for a procedure if no one else claims priority rights. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u224	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify what Mr Sklenák, President of the ČSSD, said a moment ago, in the sense that when someone proposes that his resolution be voted as a whole, it is usually accepted. The procedure in the House was usually reversed. If, on the other hand, someone has decided that he wishes to vote on individual points, the House has understood this in order to allow some points to be accepted and to reject some points and to respect this counter-proposal. So please don't turn around just because it suits us, what we used to do, and I think it's a good practice in the Chamber of Deputies. The second point is that, as you agreed on the resolution, I, as rapporteur, must say, it is such an enormous open arms. Basically, he says, "Governor, do what you want, do what you do, do good." And it's not controllable. With that generality, the government can come before the Chamber of Deputies at any time and can always say: I have entered into this resolution, into these borders, you cannot call me to any responsibility. That is the real difference between what I have tried to give individual points in particular to ensure that the government has a clear mandate, so that it can actually confess to both the House and the citizens from this mandate. I now respect this, and I am going back to the procedure, if there have been proposals that have broken down the previous customs, for example, the fact that resolutions have been voted on according to the order in which they were tabled, and I have to say that in order to reach a sensible solution, it was the Civil Democratic Party that sent all the resolutions to the various clubs yesterday, and we are not surprising you with the ad hoc sudden resolutions that you then say you do not even know what you are voting on. So we stood up to this correctly, we described a whole range of problems, and now you - but I know you have the strength to reverse the normal custom that would say: First the vote is on the first motion, i.e. the Civil Democratic Party, the second is, forgive me if I say only the names, Jitka Chalánková, the third Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, the fourth Dawn, the fifth Tomio Okamura. I understand from this debate that you are demanding that this practice be violated in order to vote on Mrs Chalánková's proposal first. At the same time, however, I must recall the words of the President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stanjura, who asked for a single vote in this case. So I believe that the proposal for a procedure should be as follows: First of all, with respect to pushing this general resolution, not saying anything, uncontrollable and not giving Czech citizens a chance to orient themselves on what the government is supposed to do and do, so if you are pushing this resolution, then there is a proposal and my proposal for a procedure is in line with what sounded like a counterproposal, on individual points, i.e. point I, II, III, IV, V, VI. The second item to be voted on would be the resolution of the Civil Democratic Party on a case-by-case basis, i.e. points 1 to 10. Third proposal, Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, two points, each individually. Fourth draft, Dawn, four designs, each of them individually. And the fifth proposal, Tomio Okamura, one suggestion. And the final vote would be on the resolution as a whole. This is my draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u225	I'm asking if anyone has a counterproposal for this draft procedure. Mr. President of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák Parliamentary Club is coming up with a counterproposal. Excuse me, Mrs Chalánková. Please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u226	I am returning to my counter-proposal when I asked for my motion for a resolution to be voted on as a whole, en bloc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u227	Mr President, please vote first on the counter-proposal concerning the vote on the proposal by Mrs Jitka Chalánková. My proposal sounded like voting after points I to VI. The counterproposal is to vote on this proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u228	So, in fact, we have the rapporteur's proposal to vote on all the proposals first, Mrs Chalánková, then ODS, then KDU, then Dawn, then Tomio Okamura on individual points. The counter-proposal of this procedure is for the first resolution of Mrs Chalánková to be voted en bloc, as a whole. About other proposals of ODS, KDU, Dawn and Tomio Okamura, KSČM by individual points. I'm going to vote on that now as a counterproposal. I'm signing you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[17,00 hours]] I am opening the vote on Mrs Chalánková's counter-proposal to vote on her proposal as a whole, on the remaining proposals on individual points. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number three. 143 Members and Members are registered, for 88, against 46. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u229	Yes. We will therefore vote, Mr Vice-President, on the motion for a resolution as a whole. I am obliged, I believe, to read this resolution as rapporteur, because given the time we were given and the circumstances which led to this, I have doubts that everyone knows exactly what they are voting for. This motion for a resolution reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies adopts this resolution on the current situation in the area of migration and its resolution within the European Union. The Chamber of Deputies, concerned by the current wave of migrants to the states of the European Union, wishing to help refugees, in particular from areas where war is taking place or threatened with death or persecution from racial, religious or national grounds or for holding certain political views or belonging to a particular social group, who perceive the concerns of a part of the Czech public that a large proportion of migrants are merely going on as refugees and therefore do not meet the conditions for granting asylum or additional protection and that massive migration can substantially change the overall character of the Czech society in the longer term, recalling that among migrants there is a high percentage of refugees from the countries of the Western Balkans, based on the fact that in the community of countries between which freedom of establishment and the free movement of persons without border control, the issue of refugees must be addressed together and united, wishing to maintain the achieved level of European integration I. Notes (a) that key decisions which may have a major impact on individual states of the European Union or which individual states might feel existentially threatened are to be taken unanimously; and (b) that decisions relating to the management of massive migration flows are such key decisions. II. It expresses its opposition to the introduction of permanent mechanisms for the transfer of refugees to and within the European Union on the basis of a mandatory redistribution key. [[so-called Quotas]] III. It expresses support for such an approach by the Government of the Czech Republic and comprehensive solutions that will lead (a) to reduce the overall migration pressure on the European Union; (b) to maintain cooperation within the framework of the so-called the Schengen area, (c) to preserve the free movement of persons within it. The European Union's decision on migration must now focus in particular on the systemic causes of the European Union's failure to detect and eliminate illegal migration. The institutions of the European Union must have a well-thought-out long-term concept, which will be based on the causes of migration and will try to prevent and minimise it. IV. It expresses support for such an approach by the Government of the Czech Republic and, in general, measures that will result in the elimination of procedural shortcomings in the places of first entry of migrants in the territories of the European Union countries, respectively, without undue delay. so-called Schengen area. These measures are intended to lead, in particular, to: (a) the effective protection of the external borders of the European Union States and the better control of illegal migration flows towards the European Union States; (b) the introduction of detention facilities for migrants in transit countries, the concept so called. hotspots for early identification and distinction of persons who could obtain international protection in accordance with international law and persons who obviously are not entitled to such protection before their entry into the territory of one of the European Union States, (c) establishing an effective method of return for non-qualified persons to grant international protection. These illegal migrants should be returned as quickly as possible from the point of first entry into the Schengen area. V. Calls on the Government, (a) to promote a policy which would aim closely at the objective causes of migration and, in particular, through foreign and development policy and humanitarian aid, both within the framework of measures at national level and in promoting common practices within the European Union. In this sense, the Czech Republic should strive for an effective European Neighbourhood Policy, which will stabilise the migration-relevant regions in close proximity to the European Union, (b) to further limit the illegal accompanying effects of migration, such as smuggling of migrants in particular. The suppression of this phenomenon must be effectively strengthened, both at national level and by effective measures at European Union level affecting the cross-border nature of this organised crime. VI. It stresses the right of each country to choose the method and parameters for so-called. Economic, state-controlled and managed migration and notes that economic migration cannot be a means of comparing the demographic deficit in the Czech Republic, and considers complex and active pro-family policy as the main tool for maintaining the size of the Czech population. VII. It asks the Government to act in accordance with this resolution. This is a motion for a resolution, which has certainly been very clear to you, clear, and that is why we can put it to a vote, Mr Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u230	Thank you. I thank the Member for presenting the resolution. Your position, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u231	My position is negative because it does not define clear boundaries for the government to control its activity in all aspects of the current problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u232	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] There is once again a request for all of you to be withdrawn, so I am signing you all off and we will vote on the resolution, as proposed by Mrs Chalánková under paragraphs 1 to 6 as a whole. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number four. 141 Members and Members are registered, for 91, against 20. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u233	We can therefore vote on the second resolution. This resolution has been tabled by the Civil Democratic Party, it has ten points and we will vote on individual points. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] First point: The Chamber of Deputies insists on a negative position on the compulsory quotas for the division of refugees in individual -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u234	I am very sorry, Madame. I'm really asking you to calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u235	Me too?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u236	Not you, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u237	So item one: "The Chamber of Deputies insists on a negative position on the compulsory quotas for the division of refugees in individual Member States of the European Union. Since the Czech Republic was re-voted to the meeting of the Interior Ministers on this issue, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to join the proceedings before the European Union Court."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u238	Opinion, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u239	Agreed. For all ten opinions, he will give his consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u240	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number five. 138 Members and Members are registered, for 55, against 4. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u241	Second motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies rejects the permanent redistribution mechanism to introduce the redistribution of refugees by means of mandatory quotas for individual EU Member States for an unlimited period of time'. I realise that, in some form, this proposal was adopted in the vote on the resolution of Mrs Jitka Chalánková, this mine is, after all, a few words otherwise formulated, so I think that it is a voteable one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u242	The rapporteur's position has been said. The Minister's position? [[Minister: Neutral due to duplication.]] I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 6, 141 Members and Members, for 75, against 3. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u243	The third proposal: 'The Chamber of Deputies rejects the possibility of unification of benefits for refugees in EU countries'. I spoke about this in my contribution when this proposal comes from German Commissioner Oettinger, and I believe that we need to have a mandate for our government in case this is on the agenda of the day for negotiations abroad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u244	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number seven, 140 Members are registered, for 54, against none. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u245	Fourth proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to take an active stand for the legal change in the position of the Czech Republic in the EU, which will enable us to maintain autonomy on fundamental issues of state sovereignty. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to take advantage of the earliest possible opportunity for the opening of the TFEU." Opinion positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u246	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 8, 140 Members are registered, for 54, against 27. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u247	Fifth proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to present a detailed procedure for examining refugees to be admitted to the Czech Republic." This is therefore about ensuring the security of Czech citizens so that those who are mentioned in the BIS report in their public section cannot penetrate here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u248	Opinion? [[Minister: Neutral.]] I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 9, 141 Members and Members, for 79, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u249	The sixth proposal reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies supports the government in preparing effective protection of the state border of the Czech Republic if the migration crisis escalates." I mentioned the reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u250	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 10; 141 Members and Members are registered, for 130, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u251	Proposal number seven: "The Chamber of Deputies supports the crackdown on smuggling ships and calls on the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic to use all possibilities to obtain the UN's approval of this plan."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u252	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 11, 139 Members and Members registered, for 55, against 2. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u253	The eighth proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government for detailed information about the humanitarian aid provided so far in refugee camps outside Europe from the budget of the Czech Republic." By this proposal, we mean that if it is accepted to have the Czech Republic, then the Czech Government will have an argument when it is challenged by the lack of solidarity with the deployment of refugees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u254	The Minister's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u255	Positive, and the Home Office will deliver. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u256	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 12, 142 Members and Members are registered, for 133, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u257	Proposal number nine: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that it is ready to approve, at the request of the Government, the necessary changes in the relevant chapters of the State budget for 2015 so that the money spent contributes to the detention of migrants outside the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u258	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 13, 142 Members are registered, for 26, against 30. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u259	Proposal number ten, item number ten: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to put pressure on the EU's top negotiations to speed up a change in the EU budget in order to strengthen the resources to apprehend migrants in camps outside the EU'. I have talked about the fact that some EU Member States have so far devoted much more to this assistance - whether humanitarian or any other - than they have yet to allocate to the EU. If we are to stop these people, that is why we are proposing this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u260	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 14, 143 Members and Members, for 88, against 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u261	We have dealt with this, Mr Vice-President, with the proposals of the Civil Democratic Party -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u262	I'm sorry, I'm very sorry. There is an objection to the vote. Mr. Benešík, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u263	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Only in the vote on item four have I voted against, however, I have a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u264	You're stating this only for the tape screen, you're not asking for a review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u265	So these were all the proposals put forward by the ODS, and we come to the proposals submitted by the KSČM. They have two points. First of all, item number one: "The Chamber of Deputies is expressing great concern: (a) the fact that, even after the meeting of the Heads of Government of the Visegrad Group, decisions on quotas have not been avoided in the European institutions, which deform the basic pillars of the construction of an integrating Europe; (b) that the agreement that was made in Prague and which was concluded within the Czech Presidency of the Czech Republic in V4 was not respected both by Poland but, in particular, by the Czech Republic, at the subsequent meeting of the Prime Ministers following the unsuccessful meeting of the Ministers of the Interior of the European Union." My opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u266	I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 15, 143 Members and Members, for 43, against 52. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u267	Item number two: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to: (a) all available legal and diplomatic procedures have prevented the application of quotas for the allocation of migrants to the Czech Republic; (b) ordering the Minister of Foreign Affairs to contribute to the peaceful settlement of fighting in Syria and throughout the Middle East, including disputes in North Africa, on the ground of international institutions, in particular the UN, the EU, the OSCE, as well as NATO, to address the causes of the migration wave; (c) has ordered the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior to continue their negotiations in the EU institutions to carry out external border protection tasks under the Schengen Treaty; (d) further worked to secure the state border of the Czech Republic if the protection of the external borders of the European Union fails; (e) has submitted a report to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic on the readiness of social, health and school systems to enter an unidentified number of persons without knowledge of the Czech language and not involved in insurance." Opinion positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u268	Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 16, registered 142 Members of Parliament, for 61, against 4. The motion was not accepted. Mr. Blackman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u269	Thank you. Just for the stew. For point No I've abstained from voting, and I'm against drugs. I'm putting this change in just for the tapestry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u270	We have dealt with the proposals submitted by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. The fourth document on which we will vote has been submitted by the Dawn movement. He's got four points. Point No 1 reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic not to respect quotas for the redistribution of immigrants and to accept voluntarily illegal economic migrants." My position is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u271	Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 17, which is registered by 141 Members and Members, for 40, against 48. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u272	Point No 2: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to defend itself against quotas in the European Court of Justice, like Slovakia." My position is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u273	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 18, 140 Members are registered, for 58, against 17. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u274	The third proposal: 'The Chamber of Deputies also calls on the government to reject permanent mechanisms for redistributing migrants'. It is similar to what we voted on in the case of Mrs Chalánková and in the case of the ODS proposal. It's just another way of putting it, and we could endlessly argue. Please, Mr President, let the House resolve this by voting. My position is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u275	Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 19, registered is 142 Members of Parliament, for 61, against 3. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u276	The final proposal for the Dawn movement is point No. 4. It reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to revote the Czech Republic in the European Parliament in rejecting the mechanism for the permanent redistribution of migrants to bring an action before the European Court of Justice against this European Parliament decision." My position is positive, although I must admit that the wording should probably sound different from that of the European Parliament, but I am giving a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u277	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 20; 141 Members and Members are registered, for 22, against 42. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u278	These were the proposals submitted by the Dawn movement. And the last proposal is before us, which is presented by Mr Tomio Okamura. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The mandatory quotas for receiving illegal immigrants are a gross violation of the sovereign rights of the Czech Republic. The Government's duty was to use all resources to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. As this has not happened, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a resignation." My opinion on this is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u279	Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the motion for a resolution may raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 21, 142 Members and Members registered, for 3, against 99. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u280	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Chamber of Deputies voted on all the proposals tabled. We therefore have to vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u281	President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u282	I do not know how you, Mr Vice-President, but I do not know exactly what we are going to vote on right now, because in the number of votes I really am not able to realise which amendment or which motions for resolutions have been passed and which have not. Now we have to vote on this as a whole. I don't want to delay the negotiations, but what you're proposing is a blind vote. I'm not exactly sure if five or six of our proposals have passed, I'm not able to identify at this point, but it's quite important. And while I'm at the microphone, your way through President Sklenák: 91 is not a large majority that you've been calling for. It's not. And I just want to remind you that the Chamber of Deputies, and it has every right to do so, has refused to support the crackdown on smugglers with its vote and has also refused to speak out against the efforts to unite welfare benefits for refugees and migrants - not at our level, because that is certainly not what the Germans suggest. I just wanted to remind you that the Chamber of Deputies rejected this by majority. But what's very surprising for me is that she refused to even support the crackdown on smugglers. But I would like to know what we are going to vote on now, or I would like to get a motion for a resolution that we are going to vote on, yes or no, in a coherent form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u283	I am very sorry, Mr Stanjur, but it was you who required us to vote one by one, so now to complain that you do not know what we are going to vote on is one thing. Second thing. Unfortunately, the rapporteur put forward a proposal for a procedure on the motion for a resolution as a whole that we will then vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole. And we voted for this procedure here. I have a procedure to follow. If you object to this procedure, please raise an objection and we will vote on the objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u284	Vice-President, I didn't attack the approved procedure. I didn't suggest we don't follow her. So please don't object to something I didn't say. I know it's a popular political method. And the vote, if I'm not mistaken, was 17 or 18. Maybe I didn't make it, so I'm gonna ask you, Mr Vice-President, to tell me how many of them we accepted and how many we didn't, if you're now ready to vote on the whole without knowing or some of us didn't know which one went through and which one didn't. I didn't attack the procedure at all! I was just saying, before we vote, I want to know and have what has passed and what has not passed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u285	Okay. This is not a task for me, but for the rapporteur. I will ask the rapporteur to give us a summary of which proposal has been passed and which has failed. But before that, Vice-President of TOP 09 and Mayor Mr. František Laudát wants to perform with priority rights. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u286	Thank you. I believe that the House ensemble knows exactly what we have approved and what we have not, and I would suggest that we end this point. I take it, of course, that it has been said from the rapporteur's mouth that the motion for a resolution should be voted on as a whole. I think it's redundant, and it's not necessary. I therefore propose that we vote that this item ends here, or that the rapporteur withdraw the proposal for a vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u287	I'm sorry, but I can't. We approved the procedure. [[Member Koníček speaks from the hall outside the microphone to the chair.]] That's right, he's in the Rules of Procedure, so whether you like it or not, I can't comply with your objection. I will ask the rapporteur to inform us about those proposals that have been adopted in the resolution and which have not been adopted, and then we will vote on the proposal as a whole. Excuse me, Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u288	First of all, I didn't vote for the procedure. The majority who created the resolution number one voted for it and led us into a procedural trap. We're really in a procedural trap, at least some of us. I voted against part of the resolutions adopted and voted for part of them too. And now I have one vote to decide that I was at points 1, 2, 3 and 4 against and at points 5, 6, 7 and 8 I was in favour, and now I have to vote on all points again in one piece. And I note that I voted against this procedure. I'm begging for a five-minute recess so we can discuss how to get out of this trap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u289	I'm declaring a five-minute recess for the ODS MP's meeting. I'm interrupting the House meeting until 5:36 p.m. [[The hearing was suspended at 17.31 pm. During the break, the KSČM MP asked for a break within 18 hours.]] Due to the request from the KSČM club for a break by 18 o'clock, I interrupt the meeting of the House within 18 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u290	It is 18 o'clock, the pause for the meeting of the KSČM. In consultation with the legislation and agreement of the Presidents of Members' clubs and precedents, I propose that we no longer vote on the resolution as a whole. If anyone objects to my procedure, please give it to me. This is Mr. Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u291	Mr President, I do not object to your procedure because I am aware that the House has behaved this way in the past when I asked for a vote, for example. on the resolution of sending troops, when there was also a vote on individual secondments, and then the House did not vote on the whole. But I would just ask you to read § 72 para. 5, so that everyone can understand how we should have followed the Rules of Procedure correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-030-02-001-001.u292	Thank you, Mr Koníček. Yes. I am aware, and that is why I have said this before, that § 72 para. 5 says that the House may decide to discuss the various parts of the proposal which will be voted on separately. After a separate vote on the parts of the proposal or after the adoption and rejection of the amendments, the vote shall be concluded on the proposal as a whole. Yes, that is indeed the case in the Rules of Procedure, but it is mainly about the laws. Thanks to the precedent in the past, this is what I propose. If no one objects to this procedure, not even Mr koníček, I thank the rapporteur and the Minister, and I am ending this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Another extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies should continue in ten minutes, according to the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, so I am interrupting the House's meeting by 6:13 p.m.
