ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u1	117. Agriculture subsidy programmes for 2015 provided pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended /German press 373/ The report shall be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. I will ask you, Minister, to take the floor. At the same time, your colleagues, if you have something to deal with to go to the lobby so that we can understand what the Minister will be giving. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the grant programmes for 2015 are based on Section 1 and Section 2 of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, which states that the State contributes to maintaining the production potential of agriculture and its contribution to the development of rural areas. At the same time, it creates the prerequisites for maintaining a populated and cultural landscape and for developing non-productive functions of agriculture that contribute to protecting the environmental components. The subsidy programmes, which are financed exclusively from national resources, are referred to in Article 2 (2) of the basic Regulation. 2 of the above Act implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and administered on the basis of its principles. The submitted material contains subsidy programmes for 2015, the purpose of which, including the size of the funds, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approves at the same time as the state budget for each year. [[9.20 hours]] [[There's a lot of noise in the room. It's hard to hear.]] The programmes are specifically intended to promote restructuring and increase the competitiveness of the Czech agrarian sector. Animal production is preferred in the submitted proposal for the amount of allocated resources. This is because of the efforts to prevent the adverse development of certain livestock sectors, which are necessary to maintain employment in the countryside and which are currently losing their positions, even though they have the prerequisites for competitive production under the conditions of the Czech Republic. In accordance with the provisions of Section 2 (a) of the EEA Agreement, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 of Act No. 252/1997 Coll. the purpose and scope of the funds proposed for each programme is indicated, the form of the subsidy and the justification for the aid is set out below. Grant programmes submitted pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll. do not contradict international agreements and agreements by which the Czech Republic is bound. The conditions for submitting applications and making decisions and granting subsidies will be governed by the principles of the Ministry of Agriculture. The draft funding for the 2015 subsidy programmes is set at a state budget of 1 billion 570 million. However, during the course of the year we are prepared to increase some subsidy programmes from the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture operationally. In view of this fact, the draft budget of the agricultural subsidy programmes for 2015 in this original proposal corresponds to the possibilities of our chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. The proposal for subsidy programmes for agriculture for 2015 was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 1 December 2014. The Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the draft subsidy programmes on 14 January this year at its 15th meeting, recommending by its resolution number 63 to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this document. At the same time, by his accompanying resolution, he recommended to the Minister of Agriculture during 2015 in the event of a lack of funding for the subsidy programmes 810E15 to increase the funding of the subsidy programme 8 the disease fund by 300 million, the 10E subsidy programme supporting the technological platforms within the remit of the Ministry of Agriculture by 5 million and the 15 subsidy programme to support the non-production functions of ponds by up to CZK 15 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to approve the support programmes for agriculture for 2015 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, recommended by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I will ask you to take the place of the petitioner. I'll read one note. Today, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes within 12 hours for medical reasons. The report was discussed by the agricultural committee, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 373/1, and I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Ladislav Velebný, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and make a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister has informed us in detail about this House's press 373, and he particularly stressed the accompanying resolution, which the Committee on Agriculture has discussed thoroughly with him and supplemented with the sums he has said here, I will only introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Agriculture. The agricultural subsidy programmes for 2015 provided pursuant to Sections 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, as stated by the House Press 373, and the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after the introductory words of the First Deputy Minister of Agriculture Jindřich Šnejdrla and the report by Mr Ladislav Velebný, and after the debate, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament approve the agricultural subsidy programmes for 2015, provided under Sections 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, the House Press 373, after a general and detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am not yet seeing an application, but Mr Bendl is reporting with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u6	Thank you, Mr President. If you don't mind, I volunteered for a proper debate, but don't worry, I won't be too long on this issue. Indeed, the agricultural committee has been quite detailed about it, because it is being monitored by the agricultural public, especially this area. I'd like to say the positive things first. I think it is a good thing that the agricultural committee has supported the trend, which began primarily with the Nečasův government, and this is in the area of support for livestock production. It is a good thing that Ivan Fuksa's disease fund was created during the time of Ivan Fuksa's ministry, and I am glad to hear here that the Minister of Agriculture says that it would add up to CZK 300 million to the disease fund over the course of the year. It is good that we can financially subsidize certain areas so that Czech agriculture is competitive. And we can do that, and this also needs to be recalled, especially because the state can use resources created in the agricultural sector, whether it is in the Forests of the Czech Republic, their profits can be poured mainly into this area thanks to the law, which was created in the time of Nečasův' government, and we also use money from the national company Budvar. It's so good, and that's how it's supposed to sound. It's a good thing the Department of Agriculture keeps doing this. But what I think is worth mentioning is a little bit in the critical view of the matter, and it fell in part here, when the minister said that we were losing up to 15 million possibly supporting the program for the non-production functions of ponds. I think, in general, that the Czech Republic should focus more on drought. In the field of agriculture, we should talk more about projects that will deal with potentially emerging situations that threaten the absence of rain, and these problems are becoming more and more common among the Czech Republic. I feel that we need to be very serious about water in the landscape, the non-production function of ponds, the renewal of ponds, the renewal of water areas in the municipalities and the like, because you know for yourself, there is no need to emphasize and repeat these figures here, but in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, a lot of ponds have been lost, and we miss water in a huge way in the countryside. 15 million won't save us. We need a strong programme to enable cities and municipalities to restore ponds so that not only agricultural producers and farmers and farmers can use them, but the landscape as a whole can use them. We need this for rural development and it would be good for the Minister of Agriculture and the Government to take this into account. I've been pointing that out for several times. I consider it a very serious matter. If floods come, they often do very significant damage, but if drought comes, the damage is mostly larger in order and the weather swings, I think it is only a matter of time before they bring something like this to us, and we should address this issue. I have also criticized funds that go into counseling at the agricultural committee's meeting. I don't think they need to be that big. That we would be able to save more and possibly support some other programmes and projects there, as we consider them to be a priority, whether it is an off-production function of ponds or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u7	Thank you. President Kováčik, after whom President Faltýnek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, ma'am and gentlemen, very briefly. The history of grant programs in agriculture does not begin with the government of Petr Nečas, as some of you might have thought of from the pre-dictionary words, but with the adoption of an agricultural law on the basis of which the subsidy programmes are created. And 1997 is the beginning that gave way to at least a partial solution to the needs that our agriculture and, in turn, food industry has in connection with things that were then not possible, or were not easy or solveable through the so-called - so-called - European money that we will take to Brussels and then hard to get them back. [[emphatically:]] I must say, I'm glad I found a strong ally. Since 1997 I have mentioned our programme priority of water retention in the countryside from time to time. In Peter Bendl without exaggeration I see a strong ally in this effort, because, after all, he has already said this, in the future there will be no other way than to tackle climate change and its consequences by making sure that water from our territory, from the roof of Europe, because that is what we have been, as little as possible, but at the same time to eliminate the consequences of sudden floods and the like, as we have seen in the floods. Third thing - the issue of livestock support. I'm a zoo technician, so it's my heart thing, and I think it's a step in the right direction. So it didn't start again with Ivan Fuksa, it started much earlier, but it's not important. The important thing is that on the basis of the possibilities that the budget gives us, the funds are subsidized, but I can imagine that there will be much more, because we will not make a hole in the world after the transformation of agriculture from livestock production. Those dramatic declines, especially in the state of cows, but also in other categories of livestock, will not save those in quotation marks with little bits of salt, but much more massive measures are needed. Or the measures need to be more systematic. I'm glad to hear that, in addition to supporting primary production, animal production and so on, the whole system, the whole chain, the whole vertical, is also supported. It will not be valid if our farmers produce slaughter animals, milk, eggs, other products and will not have them here to redeem at reasonable prices or at prices that are objective to process and also distribute on the market. This makes it easier for our competitors in the so-called single market of the European Union to overwhelm our producers and processors. At this point, I claim that grant schemes are a matter which is an agreement across the members of the agricultural committee, and therefore the KSČM club will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u9	Thank you. Mr Zahradník, after whom President Faltýnek, is reporting with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my support, in particular, for those subsidy titles which will support the non-production functions of agriculture, namely the conservation of water in the countryside. Karel Havlíček Borovský wrote in one of his epigrams: Do not boast, patriots, it is not a proper thing that no water flows from anywhere to Bohemia. We know that well. And what happens to us in the form of rainfall, we will have to try to keep it with us. I would therefore like to remind you that there is a so-called master river basin plan, a plan that has actually mapped out all possible potential areas where water could be stored with us if necessary. These are no big plans for any mega-buildings, but they are simply spaces that should be territorially protected so that, if necessary, these tanks can be built on streams with us. I would intercede whether the Ministry could revisit this plan, revise its form and, if necessary, return to the game the process of preserving these territories for future protection, for the preservation of water in the countryside. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u11	Thank you. With another point of fact, is Mr Bendl reporting - or is this a proper application for debate? [[A proper application.]] So now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u12	Good morning, Dear Government, Colleagues, Colleagues. I do not wish to extend this point, however, allow me only two comments from the chairman of the agricultural committee. I want to confirm what Vice-President Kováčik of the Committee on Agriculture has said here that this matter on the Committee on Agriculture has received support across the political spectrum and, in fact, almost everyone present, with the exception of one vote, was in favour, and as far as the accompanying resolution is concerned, all the Members present were in favour. As far as - and now I mean it, through the President, Mr Petr Bendle, in good terms - the evergreen of water retention in the countryside, I think there is a time when we will really have to start dealing with this very seriously. Just for your information - in agreement with Mr Gabrhel, who is from Znojemsko and is a member of the agricultural committee, we are meeting with some entrepreneurs in the area today who have a huge problem with this, with farmers, with executive farmers. Where basically in these arid areas, such as Znojemsko, Břeclavsko, South Moravia whole, the problem is huge today and these farmers are essentially affected by drought every year and it needs to be dealt with seriously. The meeting will also be attended by President of the Agrarian Chamber, colleague Toman. So much information for all of us that the agricultural committee is ready to deal seriously with this issue and, of course, after a debate with the Minister of Agriculture during the year and in the years to come, to look for resources to start this matter - she is, of course, being dealt with more intensively, but to find the means to go into this area over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u13	Thank you. The next envoy is Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u14	Thank you. I meant this well, through Mr President to the President of the Agricultural Committee. I didn't mean any harm. He knows I've been pointing this out for a long time, it's only a matter of time before there's serious drought problems, and we're supposed to be ready for that. Farmers don't have water resources, they don't have natural water resources. Therefore, I may also turn to the Minister of the Environment, because often in these territorial plans we have defined only the wetlands and it would be good in the territorial plans to recommend that the ponds be created there. I was talking to a guy who spent five years trying to build a pond on his property. For five years, he was just worried about legislation because he couldn't. They asked him, "Why do you want a pond, you can't do anything to me?" He says, well, I'm not getting anything out of it, I just want him to go back to where the pond used to be. We have terribly complicated legislation to restore where they used to be, and of course it is extremely expensive for water-area owners, non-production ponds to get to the point that the ponds need to be cleaned so that the water really stops, so that it doesn't just become a slippery puddle and then just a wetland that doesn't actually solve anything in the future. So I'm glad we agree on this. Thank you for that. I think we'll find a common ground if we work together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another party to the debate is Mr Pavera. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u16	Hello, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. The TOP 09 and the Mayors will also support this subsidy programme. When I take it historically, farmers were already receiving subsidies from the first Republic, although not to the extent that they are currently. But in order to be, as has already been said here, competitive throughout Europe, we need to support both animal production and plant production. I am very pleased that there are also titles among the grant titles to support beekeeping, planting and also to maintain and restore the cultural fund in the countryside. This, after all, brings a little bit of agriculture back to the countryside, because it has a name in it, that it also deals with development, or it also has rural development in it. But rural development, it's mostly from the agricultural point of view only the maintenance of the landscape, possibly. the capture of water in the landscape and so on. Whereas now that 50 million crowns have appeared there as well as cultural monuments - I thank the Minister for putting it there - I am glad that the countryside has also received some funding. It's a shame that when I think back in history, when I went to see the peasants as a little boy and drove them to a field with horses and stuff, I was interested in how they actually live. The peasants were always among the richest people in the village, even in the days of socialism. And they had to do different doses of the state, and so on and so on, they survived in the hard work without any subsidies. Unfortunately, today's world is completely different and the Czech Republic cannot support our farmers, which is why I think we should all support this subsidy programme. Of course, we will also consider where subsidies are going, who uses grant titles, and it will certainly interest you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with priority rights, the Minister is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u18	Thank you, I wanted to keep it to the end, but I'm going to say it now, so that we may speed up the debate a little bit, so that some things might be heard here. I would like to say that when it comes to water in the landscape, water management and drought management, here I think we really agree across this Chamber of Deputies. We have agreed with the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabc, we have put together an executive working group that addresses this issue. By the end of March, we will be presenting conceptual material to the government on how to deal with this within the entire state administration across the ministries, because we cannot proceed in a separate way - especially the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment, MMR, MPO and other departments. It just needs to be aligned and coordinated here. So, of course, it's being prepared so that we can deal with it in more than one level. I will recall the issue of water retention in the landscape, today's grant title "prevention before floods III" is actually focused not only on purely flood-proof buildings, but to really be combined with the fact that they are also holding water in the landscape. So from the little cops that are in the village cadastrals, the small water tanks, to the really big ones. So that's one of the things. We are again actively launching land modifications and, of course, we are also discussing over the territorial reserve for potential water tanks, which here in the Czech Republic, the territorial reserves, are. How to proceed strategically on this matter, where we want to implement which waterworks in the coming years. This, of course, is also related to the position of individual water catchment areas, because we want to prepare intensively this year probably to change what we expect from the river basin. Because, for example, the key backbone network, which is supposed to supply water for irrigation, is in a pretty pitiful state in the Czech Republic, and it's just going to have to come up here and say, "We want to build it, we have the funds from where, and we have to save it for someone." And here it is offered that perhaps the water catchment area in this matter should be the most natural partner. As for what I've heard from the left and right here in general, I think all grant titles are needed if we find out what the impact in practice is. Only the problem is, I guess we'll never find enough money to satisfy everyone. However, we have now tried to respond to the fact that it is, for example, a change in operational programmes and the transfer of 300 miles. EUR from the Rural Development Programme to chapter OPZP and IROP there has been a failure of funds for, say, small cultural heritage in the countryside. So that's why this grant title was created, which is here. And as I was saying, during this year, we expect at least four five grant titles to be able to strengthen these grant titles financially from the Ministry's internal savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u19	Thank you, Minister. With a factual remark, Mr Bendl. Are you applying properly or with a factual remark? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u20	In due course, but I will be brief, because I would just like to respond briefly to what the Minister said. There are more sources that the Ministry of Agriculture can use in the debate with the Minister of Finance. And if it goes across the political spectrum, which the President of the Agricultural Committee has indicated here, and we all know that two years ago we have not been able to use resources coming from the Forests of the Czech Republic, and they are coming from Budvar and other state enterprises, and that the forests of the Czech Republic have a profit of roughly CZK four billion, that we can certainly, if political will be able to do so across the political spectrum, reach into these finances, and they will actually, now I will say, return to the forest in part, they will return to the landscape as such, and we can reach out there. If there is a political will. Even if the Minister of the Environment's will is, there is certainly a way to find it in operational programmes in this regard, but there should be an agreement between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment so that we do not have two programs to do the same. After all, it wouldn't even work in Europe. It just needs to be told where the funds come from. Unfortunately, my experience was, it was also seen in the drawing system, that the system of drawing money from the Operational Programme Environment was much more complicated than the system of drawing money from the Operational Programme Rural Development. That's why it was pumping better and more, and the environment just couldn't. It's either going to simplify the system of drawing on the environment, or it's going to be the same song as in the past, and I don't think anybody wants that. We want the system to be simple, and I think the finances, if there's a political will, they really are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u21	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u22	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to respond briefly. I'll follow up on what you said, what my colleague said, Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Indeed, we perceive the matter of water retention in the landscape very seriously. I think the trend is clear, and unfortunately it will be clear to the future. This means weather extremism in the context of climate development. In fact, in some areas in that southern Moravia area today, water is simply missing all the time. And it is indisputable that we must make use of it, I agree with my colleague, Petr Bendl, by your means, Mr President - although perhaps I can do this without your means...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u23	You can agree without my medium.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u24	Thank you, so I can make someone happy even agree without mediation, that's good news for me. So it's really key. The "Sucho" group that Marian and I started isn't really just gonna be formal. It's a working team of people from all the departments, from all the areas involved. We have found that in recent years there have been a number of isolated groups and groups from the academic sphere to the practical one, and they have all dealt essentially the same. That means a drought to keep water in the countryside, but few of those people worked together. So our goal is to prepare conceptual material for government in the area of legislative, technical, preventive and, of course, even then perhaps in the pejorative sense of the word repressive. That means what tools we can use today and, of course, what money we have at our disposal. And I agree that there has been, and will be, significantly less money in the Operational Programme Environment. And I also agree that drawing was significantly more complex than, for example, for an agricultural operational programme. So that's all our goal now. We really take this as a serious problem and do not wait for the sun to shine again, because the real problem and the low state of groundwater, among other things, is still there and it is very warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u25	Thank you, Minister. I don't see anybody else joining the debate. If that is the case, I am ending the general debate and asking whether the petitioner and rapporteur will take the final floor. So, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I see that we can be quite satisfied with the submitted material, so I recommend that the material be approved. I will merely sign up for the motion for a resolution that I tabled in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u27	Thank you. I am opening the debate in detail and I will therefore ask you whether I have well registered this, Mr rapporteur, to read the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u28	Resolution of the Agricultural Committee of the 15th meeting of 14 January 2015 on: The grant programmes of agriculture for 2015 provided pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, House Press 373. Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Agriculture Jindřich Šnejdrla, report by Mr Ladislav Velebný and after the debate I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies grant programmes for agriculture for 2015 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, approved by the House Press 373; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-001-117.u29	Thank you, rapporteur. I think that the first point of the agricultural committee is essential, and that is that the Chamber of Deputies approves Parliament's agricultural subsidy programmes for 2015. Other accompanying resolutions are not relevant to our resolutions. So I propose that we put to the vote on this first resolution that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approves the Agriculture Grant Programmes for 2015, if anybody objects to this proposed procedure. [[No objections.]] If this is not the case and no one is going further into a detailed debate, in which case I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if, after a detailed debate, the rapporteur, or rather. The Minister wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. So I'll put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution as read, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 145, Members of Parliament present 150, for proposal 129, against 2. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. I've got more tickets coming to me, so I'll read them. For health reasons, Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes today, and Mr Bronislav Schwarz apologises for professional reasons between 13:00 and 21:00, and for personal reasons, Mrs Martina Berdychová apologises today. I would also like to point out that it is possible to submit applications for oral interpelations by 11.30 at the latest. And I would also like to inform you, as yesterday was the meeting of the Organising Committee, that today, after the conclusion of the Oral Interpelration, we will continue the suspended 24th session of the Chamber of Deputies until the end of the detailed debate. We'll continue the program as we've approved it. The next item is:
