ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u1	71. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part /German press 336/ - first reading I ask that the opening words be delivered gradually by Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u2	Good almost noon. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, a point that we should now discuss is the Association Agreement between the European Union, on the one hand, and Georgia, on the other. I would therefore like to present this agreement to you at first reading, because this association agreement is actually a certain culmination of developments in Georgia over the last twenty years since Georgia became an independent state. Perhaps I can sum up that, over the course of 20 years, the Czech Republic has always supported Georgia on its way to create and build a stable, consolidated state. Of course, it was not an easy journey at all. There were various dramatic peripetia on it, but I think that the fact that it is possible to conclude this agreement today could even be seen as a joint success. I think of Georgia as a country extremely close to us. Of course, it is a beautiful country and I would always like it to be a tourist destination for the Czech Republic. I believe that this agreement could also contribute to bringing Georgia closer to us again. This Association Agreement is one of three signed on 27 June 2014 in Brussels. There were also agreements signed with Ukraine and Moldova. We have an agreement here today, which represents a specific reform programme for Georgia. Georgia has committed itself to implementing a number of major reforms in the next few years, whether in the area of law, governance reform, so it has also undertaken to deepen cooperation between Georgia and the European Union across a wide range of sectors. The agreement also includes the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade zone. This includes a number of provisions that are expected to contribute to the reduction of non-tariff barriers to trade and also to the cultivation of the business environment in Georgia. Of course, the result should be to strengthen economic growth, job creation and new business opportunities. This is something Georgia needs very much because, while there is a relatively rich food industry and agriculture in Georgia, I think Georgia would need support in the area of industry and strengthening the economy in the area of industrialism. The Czech Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs together with the Ministry of Industry and Trade are trying to invest in Georgia aid. We have even drawn up a whole programme on how to make investments in Georgia based on the experience we have had in the past. I believe that part of the cooperation that awaits us when this agreement is confirmed and ratified will be that the Czech Republic will be able to continue its efforts to help investment in the promising areas of the Georgian economy. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] I think we have a whole range of very good contacts here today on a political level. I myself can say that I think I have very good relations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a new minister who visited the Czech Republic last November, and it was one of the first visits she made after taking up her duties. I think that's a collaboration that we're going to continue quite intensively. Of course, I do not hide that I would also like the application of the agreement to have a positive impact on the business environment, where I also think everything does not work completely, as it should, but in fact the whole accession agreement is also about cultivating the environment, including the business environment. The emergence of, for example, different boards, different forums, such as the Association Council or the Association Committee, are institutions that should also have some supervision over compliance with business rules in the future, so as to avoid situations where entrepreneurs might be exposed. In my opinion, the culture of the business environment is something that would also be very good to help Georgia strengthen the economic base, which I certainly believe in our good relations and I believe is something that the Georgian side will stand for to continue. I consider Georgia to be a very good partner of the Czech Republic, and I would like to support this association agreement here, and I am waiting for a debate. I'm ready to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u3	Thank you. I now request the floor of the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the deepened and comprehensive free trade area, which is part of the presented Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States and Georgia, is to establish a framework for strengthening and modernising trade relations between the European Union and Georgia, as well as to create conditions for the development of the Georgian economy. The Czech Republic has long supported the conclusion of an association agreement with Georgia, part of which is DCFTA. As with the trade part of the agreements with Ukraine and Moldova, this agreement also covers all major parts of mutual trade. [[11.40 hours]] It removes almost all customs duties and aims to eliminate non-tariff barriers to trade. Future development of business relations, modernization, stability of business environment, new business opportunities are the main benefits that the agreement can bring to Czech entrepreneurs and companies. The Association Agreement, including the Free Trade Agreement, was signed on 27 June 2014 and is provisionally implemented as from 1 September 2014. The Czech Republic supports the ratification of the Association Agreement with Georgia. However, I would like to add here that Georgia seems to be the only country in the South Caucasus to have an association agreement with the European Union, because Armenia has already resigned from the Association Agreement, and last week I negotiated with the President of Ázerbájdžán Alijev, who told me that Azerbaijan also does not want an association agreement, but wants an agreement on a strategic partnership with the European Union. So Georgia will be the only one. Nevertheless, I propose to ratify this treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u5	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Robin Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u6	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. We have now seen two completely different approaches in two ministers. While the Foreign Minister was so epic, which is very good for Georgia, the Minister of Industry and Trade cut it very roughly. However, they both gave the essential facts, and it is important to realise that Georgia is not some foreign entity that we would not know historically. Georgia has basically been part of the European civilization space since the ancient man's perception of it and hasn't gone far. The Foreign Minister has said very well that Georgia has undergone a very complex and turbulent development in the last 20 years. In any event, it certainly belongs to the European area, and this agreement should help further cooperation between the European Union and Georgia as part of the Eastern Partnership. All technical information was given by both ministers. I will add here as rapporteur that the agreement is a so-called mixed treaty, which means that some parts of it fall within the competence of the Member States and some parts fall within the competence of the European Union. I will add that a number of European parliaments have already ratified the Treaty, or the ratification process in European parliaments is under way. I myself recommend releasing this press for second reading, ordering it to the Foreign Committee and reporting directly to the debate, where I would like to propose a shortening of the deadline for discussion in the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u7	Thank you and I am now opening a general debate in which I have two factual applications - Mrs Fischerová and Mr Šarapatka. Please, Mrs Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u8	Thank you for the floor. In any event, my esteemed colleagues, I will begin by saying that I agree with the referral to second reading and with the speeding up of the negotiation of ratification of this Treaty. But I have a question about this first reading of the international treaty. It is true that this Treaty was already delivered to us by Members and Members in October, 2 October 2014. Then she was in the program, then she wasn't, then she was in the program. Then she pulled back. I have a specific question: for what reason was this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u9	Thank you and please another de facto Mr Sharapatka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the support, although Dawn has a free vote on this treaty. I support the ratification of this agreement, and I believe that it is about promoting economic cooperation and cultural cooperation; it is not about any strategic partnership. I therefore support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u11	Thank you, and now with priority rights, Mr Schwarzenberg. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u12	Madam President, honourable Members, I must say that I am very pleased that today there will be a vote on an agreement with Georgia. Georgia has been friendly not only with us in recent years, but also with countries where we have had extraordinary economic achievements. When we look at what Czech businesses have built in Georgia, how trade and exports to Georgia are flourishing, it is truly remarkable. I think it is appropriate and it belongs to us to support Georgia in an effort to get closer to the European Communities, because it is really crucial for Georgia for economic reasons to have a large European market at its disposal, it was not dependent on just one large neighbouring country. Ladies and gentlemen, please support Georgia. It's a country that really needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u13	Thank you. Another priority right is the rapporteur, Mr Robin Böhnisch, then Mr René Číp, and then Mr Benešík. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Now is probably the time for me to ask the House to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 40 days. We would like to discuss the material in committee so that we can discuss or process the entire legislative process as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u15	Yes, I am registering your proposal, we will vote on it later, after the end of the debate. Next in line, please, and this is Mr René Číp.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u16	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take this very briefly. Georgia is one of the three Kazavkastan republics. It is a country with a slightly smaller area than the Czech Republic and roughly half the population. The autonomous Republics of Ajaria, Abkhazia and South Ossetia are also part of Georgia. However, the latter two are de facto independent today, and the Georgian government is not in control of their territories. If we do not count these split autonomous republics, Georgia is adjacent to Russia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Turkey. Georgia therefore has no land border with another member country of the European Union today. This situation can be changed in the future by Turkey's accession. Another option would be the entry of Armenia and Azerbaijan, but without Turkey or Russia's prior accession it would not solve the problem of the dissipation of this hypothetical part of the European Union from other Member States of the Community. Georgia is therefore a country with an unresolved internal political situation and we do not know what specific territory it is. With this Treaty, the European Union undoubtedly wants to deepen cooperation with this country, but it is not quite clear to me what interest it is in. Is this in the interests of Georgia, the European Union, or in any other speculative interest? Is it not the point of these agreements with the former Soviet Republics to actually increase pressure on Russia in order to frighten the possible increase, increasing its territory by the Member States of the European Union? On the contrary, I am clearly convinced that it would be wiser to help consolidate by not taking any more rash steps that may lead to further escalation of tensions in Eastern Europe, but we will try to address these problems actively and move forward with further association when the situation is settled. After all, it is not just the countries where we consider association but also their neighbours. Will it not then threaten that this island of democracy and freedom will become a liability to the European Union because of its distance and the undoubted use of this country by various criminal and terrorist organisations as a gateway to Europe? [[11.50 hours]] I would also like to mention the fundamental obligation for which we were obliged to vote in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. This is primarily about defending the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. I therefore do not think that it is rational and that it is absolutely in the interests of the citizens of our country at this time to accept and ratify such an agreement. In conclusion, I would like to ask and suggest that the discussion of this press be suspended in accordance with § 64 para. 1 to indeterminate and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u17	Thank you, and since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on it. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out. Please identify yourself with your cards again. I am opening the vote on the procedural proposal for the suspension of negotiations on this point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? It is a vote with order number 41, to which 139 is registered. For 28, against 102. I'm of the opinion that the motion to interrupt has been rejected. We'll continue the negotiations. Minister, are you reporting for the debate? With priority rights? [[Minister Zaoralek from the newsstand: Is there anyone else?]] Yes, they are, but without priority rights. But there is a factual remark by Mr. Gabal, who takes precedence over everyone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u18	Thank you, Madam President, Government, colleagues, colleagues, allow me not only to remind the House that today is 16 years since we became members of the North Atlantic Alliance. As a result of this, of course, safe, we can listen in peace in this House democratically to the views that seek to push Georgia back into Russian influence. I think if we weren't in the Alliance, we might be at a very similar risk. Thanks to that North Atlantic alliance, we're resisting this risk. It is therefore reasonable if we strive for minimal trade, cultural and further cooperation with countries such as Georgia, and we help them to have the right to sign if these countries express an interest in negotiating and concluding such an agreement. If we refuse to approve this agreement, we say that Georgia has no right to decide who it wants to work with. We have not had this right for a long time thanks to the Communist Party, thanks to real socialism, and we have had to make a lot of effort to get out of the Soviet and Moscow sphere of influence and cross and return to the West to the defence alliance, to the legal world, to economic cooperation, to freedom of movement and expression. Only thanks to this environment can open critics safely report their opinions. [[Attention, time's up.]] So, once again, allow me to mention this anniversary, and allow me, in its context, to support the approval of the agreement with Georgia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u19	Thank you. I have two priority points here. Really? Mr. Jandák, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u20	[[Resurrection in the hall, applause for a part of the Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I just wanted to appreciate the truly ideological expression of my previous speaker, because every time, my colleague, he needs his ideologies. But I have this feeling that sometimes he needs a little philosopher and a little economist. You know, and I mean the hesitation that is here in the House, as far as Georgia is concerned, is not at all because we are celebrating our anniversary today and that we want everyone to be free, but rather ask where Europe has its limits. If you do not happen to come next time and say that the Mongol people have finally conquered their freedoms, and the Ulanbatar carries huge features of European culture. You know, I'm a little worried about that. If we are not a little embezzled by what our ancestors once created, thank God for that, the European Economic Community, then the European Union. We're taking somebody today. And what does the European Union look like? It's starting to burst at the seams. Economic problems are starting to come together, and it's only because the ideologists are starting to win! Maybe good, healthy ideologists, because they're ours! But it's not totally okay after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u21	Thank you and another de facto Professor Zlatuška. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what the ancestors of Jandák did. But when he evokes some association with Mongolia and so on, I would just remind you that Georgia is older than us in the history of Christian culture. I had a chance to get acquainted with this, and it's definitely a country that belongs to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u23	Thank you and I will ask the Minister to endure a little longer, because before him is with priority right, Mr Laudát. [[Oral]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u24	Thank you. I just want to say that the TOP 09, as our President has announced, will vote in favour of this association agreement. Another was said here, if it is in the interests of the citizens of our country. Of course, it is in the interests of the citizens of our country. Whether it's in Georgia's interest. If its people want this treaty and want to move closer to the European Union, it is in the interests of the citizens of Georgia. There's no technical problem at all. Note that France, for example, has overseas territories and is also automatically part of the European Union, so today geography is no problem. And if my colleague Jandák here says that there are limits to the European Union, I think that where the borders of states and societies are willing to share our European values, values of freedom and democracy. So that's where I see the boundaries. And I'd like to see as many states as possible join it at least in the Northern Hemisphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u25	Thank you and please now with the priority right of the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u26	Thank you. So allow me, my dear friends, to set this straight, the debate on how Georgia belongs to us. Okay, look, I may not be able to say this 100%, but I think basically it's going to be accurate. Georgia, I believe, was a country that accepted Christianity in the 4th century after Armenia and Ethiopia. Another important fact is that Iásón and the Argonaut landed at Colchis looking for a golden fleece. And as Robin Böhnisch, who has it in his head as a newsletter, the pheasant of colchid, is the most famous Gruzínec, except we shoot at him, after the beautiful feather that runs around here. So the colchid pheasant that runs in our woods, it's also from Georgia, my friends. It's proof of how we live here, even though we shoot at them, I have to say. It's a favorite game hunter here. And I could also talk about the obsessed Prométhe, in the Caucasus. So it is certainly quite easy to prove that Georgia is part of European history, and it is not that it has to prove it to us in some way too difficult. [[12.00 hours]] What I'd like to say here is that it's not rash. Mr. Chip here said it was rash. It's not rash, it's that we're presenting it. Because, above all, I would like to point out, it is not true, I assure you, it is some anti-Russian move. It's just not like that. This isn't a big deal. That's what anyone thinks, so I can assure them it's a mistake. It's definitely not meant to be that way or that way. I don't even think it's seen that way in Russia. And what's important. If that were the case, it would certainly not be true today that this association agreement has already been ratified by all our partners in the V4 countries. At this point, it is ratified by 12 countries and I have no doubt that it will be ratified by the vast majority of countries by the summit in Riga, which will be held in May. She is being discussed in the remaining parliaments, and I assume that by the summit in Riga, the majority, if not all, will be ratified. So it's definitely not like none of them would have noticed if it was some kind of problem of the type that was mentioned here. So I'm stressing here-- this contract isn't a consensus. She's not rash. And it's the conclusion of a process that has its logic and has been going on for quite a long time. We really have a number of thorough relations with Georgia, in which I think we could have convinced ourselves many times that Georgia is serious about this effort to be close to Europe. It's a long-term thing, and it's not an idea that would fall from the sky today. And I am witnessing this because Georgia is a country I think I know well, and many times I have had the opportunity to meet its politicians at different times. And then there's one more complicated thing for me that I have to mention. I was asked here why the contract oscillated so complexly. I do not want to piss off and admit that it is true that we have had rather complicated negotiations with our partners because of the situation that arose around Energo-Pro and because of the exceptional tax, relatively astronomical, which has been imposed on it, because I admit that I saw this as a certain tendency which would lead to damage to the very successful and extensive investment of the Czech Republic in the field of hydropower and water resources in Georgia. I also discussed this with Commissioner Hahn, i.e. This matter was not only a Czech-Georgian matter, but it also dealt with the current European Commissioner Hahn in Georgia. I wanted this investment to be protected, especially because there are hundreds of millions of Czech state funds provided by the Czech Export Bank and EGAP. So it was simply the protection of a relatively large and successful investment of the Czech Republic. But I think we've come close to a solution in this, or that a solution has been found that I find acceptable. That is why I spoke in my speech about the fact that I believe that this association agreement will also contribute to the cultivation of the business environment and that such matters should be dealt with more quickly tomorrow, because, as I said here once in my opening speech, there will be different bodies such as the Association Council and the Association Committee and the Grémia, on which such matters could be dealt with more quickly than in this case. But I believe that everything that has happened has been perfectly correct on our part, in terms of the fact that it is clearly an interest that we had to defend. I'm sorry if anyone feels it's connected to the association agreement. In the end, I admit that I don't think it's ideal either, but one doesn't choose in life. And I think, given what we have done with Georgia, that we have been very positive about it many times, that it was just something that had to be done. And I stand by it, despite the fact that some may question it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u27	Thank you. Now we have a few factual points. Mr. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip, please. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u28	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, I think that instead of ideology, the debate must be precisely how individual countries that are in the Council of Europe will treat the current European Union. So I'm sorry, I'd rather applaud Vítězslav Jandák than an ideological speech about whether it's a good idea for him to be in the Union and someone in NATO. Yes, the Czech national interest is to treat European countries historically as good partners. This is what happens when we consider in these individual bodies how our investors behave in the way their state bodies treat our investors. And that is a logical conclusion to create certain conditions for it. So don't be mad at me, it is very important for me how the situation in Georgia will develop, how the situation for the Czech Republic, the Czech businessmen, the Czech national interests will be able to strengthen cooperation with Georgia. In this respect, I do not think that anything needs to be accelerated, slowed down, or even rejected. But to discuss it properly, I think it's very important. I do not want to remind other rapid inputs to certain international organisations, including the European Union, of 80,000 people who do not have civil rights in the European Union for another language. In this respect, I think there's something to fix right inside us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u29	Thank you. Mr Igor Jakubčík comes with another factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, a lot of what I wanted to say has already been said by the Minister, event. My previous speaker, President Filip. I think that the Association Agreement is not an accession to the European Union. It's a start, a start of a certain step, a start of a certain process. And exactly as the Foreign Minister said, if we approve this accession agreement, we have the option, we have the leverage, we have a much better position to negotiate. To negotiate not only with Georgia, but also with other states in the case of other association agreements. We have the opportunity to protect our investments in a more significant way. We have the opportunity to intervene in a more pronounced way in the democratization processes in these countries. I would like to ask you to approve this association agreement at first reading. I think this is a very, very important step towards making our European Union here - because the European Union is not theirs, but the European Union is also ours - to significantly improve diversity, increase economic performance and increase the possibility for our citizens to have a significantly better approach and have significantly greater opportunities for both investment and tourism and other matters in these countries. So please, let's approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u31	I thank Mr Jakubčík. That was the last point of fact. Now with priority rights... My colleague Schwarzenberg will wait, and a factual comment from my colleague will be before priority law. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u32	Mr President, I will be quick. My point will be to ask the petitioner. I confess that as a member of the Foreign Committee, I'm here to express ignorance, and I should have studied it. I just wanted to ask. Those areas that are not under control today - South Ossetia and Abkhazia, I think it is under Georgia's control - do Georgia still consider it part of the integrity of its national territory? And we as the Czech Republic also consider them part of Georgia's territory? And could it be a problem in the association agreement? I understand that something else is an association agreement. By the way, it was said here that the benefits would be more on the side of the accomplice, not so much for us. And then I wanted to ask - is it even possible for him to become a member of the European Union a state that does not fully control his own territory? And is it known that there are Russian military crews in these territories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u33	Thank you, Mr Plzák. But I think I'm going to let the Minister answer in the final word, because I'd like to exhaust the preferential rights. [[to Minister Zaoralek, who was about to answer]] Please, Chairman Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u34	Mr President, honourable Members, in my previous contribution, I focused on how fashion is today, especially on the economic advantages of Georgia's association agreement with the EU, because it is a very important economic partner for us, where Czech exports, the Czech industry from electricity to hospitals, are celebrating incomparable achievements. But there have been doubts as to whether Gruzínec really belong to Europe or to European culture. I would just like to point out that Georgian is a very interesting language, one of the earliest European languages related to Etruscan and Basque language. Gruzínec accepted Christianity by the time the forefather of Bohemia and Říp had not yet climbed, long ago, and they were always part of this world. No one ever doubted it throughout the Middle Ages. And for me, it's interesting to observe one thing. After all, it belongs to the pride of Czech culture - one of the earliest and best translations of the Georgian epic The man in leopard leather was in Czech more than a hundred years ago, which is really very interesting. But the funny thing is that today the most critical of the association agreement are those politicians who, in their youth, were great admirers of the most Gruzínec Georgian, whose paintings I still remember from my youth everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u35	I thank Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. Now Mr Jakubčík's factual remark, which will overtake the Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u36	Thank you for the floor. I'm just talking to my colleague Plzák, through you. You were talking about Osetia, event. about other, say, enclaves, but look at Cyprus, look at Moldova with Transnistria. These are exactly the same examples. As a member of the Foreign Committee, I think you might have a little more geopolitical knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u37	Mr colleague, once again I remind you that you address your colleagues through the President. Otherwise, thank you for keeping time. And now Minister Jan Mládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to discuss the debate on Georgian culture here, whether Šota Rustaveli was a great Georgian poet or a debate opened by President Schwarzenberg on the great Georgians, if it was not also Osetinec. After all, I would rather be engaged in economic matters. First of all, I would like to say that the association agreement is not about EU membership. This is in no way about membership, and there is no guarantee that, after signing the association agreement, the country will ever become a member. Turkey has a 40-year association, and so far it doesn't look like much of a membership. I would also like to say that this agreement is important for protecting the interests of Czech companies, whether they invest there or trade there, as my colleague Zaorálek has already mentioned, because if we were not members of the EU, we would have to conclude agreements on investment protection, free trade agreements, agreements to prevent double taxation in support of Czech companies. Since we are members of the EU, the EU signs either association agreements or free trade agreements. And it is also in our interest to participate in them, regardless of whether the country controls or does not control its entire territory. The cases have already been mentioned here. So I personally think that if we are - or at least I - behind Serbia's territorial integrity, Ukraine's, Georgia should not be an exception and the problems of Abkhazia and South Ossetia will also be solved in the future. I would add, however, that, at the same time, steps should be taken which would not lead to this treaty being seen as hostile, particularly in relation to economic relations with Russia. It is not so much the problem of Georgia, it is the problem of Ukraine, because if this matter is not resolved in a satisfactory manner, the country will get into significant problems with the association agreement, but I suppose there will be a debate in about two weeks. Last but not least, I would like to say that our concern is not to leave out the two countries - which, for various reasons, I mean the South Caucasus - that is, Armenia and Azerbaijan - out of our interest and to look for other ways, if these countries no longer seem to follow the path of the association agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u39	Thank you. Mr Martin Komárek and Mr Benešík, who, of course, is... [[Messenger. Komárek reports that the application is not valid.]] Wrong. Okay. Thank you. In that case, Mr Benešík, who is enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u40	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, it now sounds like I accidentally got to the microphone, but I've been applying for a long time. I wanted to highlight what has already been said here. We do not send Georgia to the EU by approving this Treaty. It's just not like that! We're creating space for what's already been said here so we can have what's called. levers, and I think that our entrepreneurs will appreciate this very much, and I think that if the Georgian party wants it, we should support this agreement and we support it. In this debate, I would also like to ask for this, because it has also been said here that this is a mixed agreement, or partly in the sense of the EU Member States, partly in the hands of the EU as such, so I would like to ask the honourable House to allocate this treaty, this material, to the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u41	I thank the Prime Minister for volunteering for his work. Mr Stanislav Berkovec, the last one entered into the debate so far, will now be speaking in the debate. Then I'll invite the Secretary of State. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Allow me to make a very short remark. I am convinced that foreign policy and politics are no longer part of the world and that it is artificially still divided into compartmentalizations and categories of east and west if we are to talk in the category of politics for ordinary citizens who want to live in peace. And let me make one very personal remark, very short. It's actually a quote of a sentence that Jana Klusáková and I used to talk very lively about, with director Akakio Šanšiašvili in the old Tbilisi. It is a quote from Abuladze's film, which in Czechoslovakia was shown almost on denial under the name Pokajanij, i.e. Penance. They all lead to the church on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u43	I thank Mr Stanislav Berkovc. Now, if no one is reporting, I will close the debate and ask for final words. I'm filing a request for a final word from the Secretary of State. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u44	Thank you. I would just like to answer one question, which was quite fundamental and which here was raised to the separatist or separate territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. So I would just like to inform you that, at the moment, the border between Russia and Abkhazia, Russia and South Ossetia is being released, where the relations deepen, while, on the contrary, there is control on the administrative dividing line between the regions, that is, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and the part administered by Tbilisi. So, on the contrary, the control is getting more intense and it's getting more difficult to get through there. [[12.20 hours]] A Strategic Partnership Treaty between Russia and Abkhazia was concluded last November. A proposal for a similar treaty between Russia and South Ossetia was also published, she is only to be signed somewhere now in March, April, a similar treaty. Georgia considers the two treaties de facto to be an anexi of occupied territories by Russia, so it is obvious here that the question as it is at the moment can be said that the problem is far from solved. There has been such a proposal, I think, to resolve the relationship between Georgia and those territories that would be inspired by the relationship between Taiwan and China. This is something that has been discussed recently. It is true that if it were to be about Georgia's accession to the European Union, it would be a matter of fundamental importance. It has also been repeated several times during the debate that the Association Agreement is not an agreement on Georgia's accession to the European Union. I think that, in the case of this agreement, this problem does not really matter because we are not at the level of decision-making in which to assess what has been considered in the case of the whole process of accession to the European Union. As much as the problem currently stands. I don't think it concerns the issue of accepting an association agreement because it doesn't interfere with anything at the moment. I hope that at first reading we will be able to discuss committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-003-071.u45	Thank you. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. In the debate, a motion was made on the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. We will therefore vote on individual proposals. I'm gonna try to call in a co-worker from the lobby. I will sign you off, and please sign up with your identification cards, who is interested in voting on the commandments of committees to discuss this government proposal... I assume the number of entries has settled. I am opening the vote on order number 42 and I am asking who is in favour of the commandment of this agreement to discuss the foreign committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 42, 147 for 142, no one against. We ordered the Foreign Committee. Now, therefore, the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 43, from 148 in favour of 138, against no one. In the debate, there was still a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion to 40 days. That is what we will decide in the '44 order vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 44, from 148 in favour of 113, against 22. The motion was accepted. I note that the Government's proposal to approve the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, has been directed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and to the Committee on European Affairs. The time limit for discussion in both committees shall be 40 days. Thank you to the ministers, thank you to the rapporteur, and end with item 71. I wish you all the best, and the Georgian Embassy Council can report to Tbilisi. We will continue, ladies and gentlemen, with a point
