ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u1	79. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part /German press 310/ - First reading I therefore ask that the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek and the Foreign Committee rapporteur Mrs Jana Fischerová take the position of the rapporteur on behalf of the appellant. I ask if the plaintiffs are interested, this is the Minister of Foreign Affairs or Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek speaking. If so, the rapporteur? Minister Mládek reporting. Mr. Secretary of State. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u2	Perhaps I would just make a few comments on the debate before the debate. I would like to point out once again that here in this agreement, which I am proposing, because the Czech Republic has committed itself to ratifying this agreement as well as the other Member States, that I am presenting it as an association agreement, not as a membership of Ukraine, because it is still not respected in debates. I would like to reiterate that the Association Agreement for the Czech Republic was adopted at the beginning of the 1990s and this agreement was not yet, of course, a decision that the Czech Republic would apply for membership. I would therefore like this to be borne in mind during the debate and not to be repeatedly mixed with the association agreement with the membership agreement. The purpose of this agreement is, as you know, precisely to link up and deepen economic and political relations between the European Union and Ukraine. I know well that, at this point in time, the events that should be mentioned here, because it is now absolutely essential for further developments in Ukraine, are the negotiations that are taking place in Minsk in the form of Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France, because they will mainly be attended by the presidents of France, Germany, Ukraine and Russia. If you don't mind, I'd only tell you in two minutes what's going on in Minsk right now, because it's indirectly related to this deal. According to the information I have directly from Minsk, in an all-night multi-hour meeting, representatives finally agreed on about 12 basic points of the memorandum, which should be adopted and signed. The problem is about the last two points of the memorandum. In fact, the very basic problem, which causes the negotiations to continue, and it has not yet ended, is that it is difficult to draw a line. The line that is the point of touch or the space of touch from which heavy weapons should be removed and which should be respected by both sides. What was quite supposed to be a problem, that the separatist party had a different idea of where the line should lead than the idea Ukraine has. And as far as I know, that's the cornerstone of the dispute at this point and the reason why the negotiations haven't actually ended until now. However, from the outset, I support this diplomatic activity of Europe, the European Union and European diplomacy, because I believe that this is the best way to change and stop the situation in Ukraine's education. Nevertheless, I am still convinced that even the fact that negotiations have been going on for so long is, at the same time, an expression of a certain centripetal force and the interest of the parties to find an agreement. At the same time, I am aware that it is not about having a ceasefire or peace agreement on paper, but that it needs to be achieved in the space in which unfortunately there is still a struggle. Nevertheless, I believe and believe that negotiations will come to an end and that those who have spent so many hours negotiating the text of the memorandum will not say in the end that it has failed. I believe that the diplomatic path to resolving the crisis in Ukraine will prove to be right. I am glad that European politics does not wait and that it participates and tries at all costs to achieve the result, which will mean the end of the shooting, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and the withdrawal - which, by the way, is also the subject of the negotiations - of all foreign soldiers or those who came into that space from elsewhere. This is also the subject of the negotiations, and even with that, as far as I know, there was a consensus. Of all the information I have, I think it is still moving in the direction that we need, but it is still not over and certainly not won by far. I am saying this here because the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine is also something that was the result of the negotiations. I would like to remind you once again that for the first time Russia has also played a role in these negotiations. I would like to remind you again what I have already said here that the implementation of the economic part of the free zone agreement has been postponed, that is, now there is an association agreement, but the implementation of the economic part is postponed until 31 December 2015. This was decided in negotiations between representatives of the European Union, Ukraine and Russia. The reason for this is that on the Russian side there was a concern that this would affect trade between Ukraine and Russia, and Russia, by accepting Ukraine to postpone the economic agreement, so Russia, in exchange for this step, promised not to impose any trade restrictions on Ukraine this year. What I'm saying here is that the political crisis, but in fact, in Ukraine and in economic terms, can only be dealt with. And Europe should try to help in this, especially because Ukraine and its consolidation, or, on the contrary, tragic development, is something that would greatly affect Europe's security, the stability of Europe's economic and security. That is why I believe that this is something that we should be dealing with, and I propose to you here one more time today that we put it into the first reading and discuss the association agreement seriously in the House Committees. That's my request to you. I hope it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u3	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now please the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, who is claiming the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on the subject of the Association Agreement with Ukraine. My colleague Zaorálek mentioned the political dimension very strongly here, and I consider it necessary to speak here, because the association agreement is primarily a free trade agreement, and it is a bit lost from the debate that has been going on here for a long time. This economic dimension is very important because a comprehensive free trade area is being deepened. The DCFTA that we present to you here today is part of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States and Ukraine. Its aim is to establish a framework for strengthening and modernising trade relations between the EU and Ukraine, to contribute to the development of the Ukrainian economy through market opening, in particular by gradually removing customs and quotas, harmonising legislation that affects trade, and bringing Ukraine's economy closer to European Union standards. Ukraine is a historically important trading partner for the Czech Republic. Economic relations between them have developed positively since 1993 and exports to Ukraine have increased to 10 times since then. In territorially oriented export strategies, it has always been ranked among one of the priority countries in recent years. The total turnover of mutual trade reached almost 56 billion in 2013, while Czech exports amounted to 32 billion. Currently set tariff rates are relatively low and therefore DCFTA is important mainly due to the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade. The important thing is that another liberalisation of mutual trade will open up to Czech companies a market of about 45 million inhabitants. However, it is also true that the results of last year will be significantly worse than the results of 2013, and unfortunately not only because of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, but because of the very unsatisfactory situation in the Ukrainian economy in general. [[10.50 hours]] In view of the political-economic events in Ukraine, the provisions of the trade part of the Agreement relating to disposal, respectively. the reduction of customs duties on goods originating in Ukraine, which they are now doing in full, through autonomous tariff preferences in the EU in favour of Ukraine. The EU is an expression of solidarity and real economic aid. As my colleague Zaorálek mentioned here, the original agreement had a problem that it threatened and actually threatened Ukraine's trade with Russia and other countries of the customs union. Therefore, former Commissioner Karel de Gucht has already done this already mentioned displacement of the agreement until 31. 12. 2015, because Ukraine needs an agreement not only in the EU but also with Russia for economic reasons, because it is unable to redirect its exports from east to west in a short period of time, even if it has a political will to do so. The European Union, on the other hand, has done the autonomous tariff preferences as a sign of solidarity, which means that the agreement applies unilaterally and benefits Ukrainian exporters to the European Union, and it is currently not offset by the advantages for Czech exporters to Ukraine. As the Agreement covers all essential aspects of trade between the EU and Ukraine, such as trade in goods, services, public contracts or energy goods, and lays down rules for the future harmonisation of technical standards and regulations, sanitary and phytosanitary measures or protection of intellectual property, it fulfils the objectives set out in the Directive for the negotiation of this Agreement. The Czech Republic supports the ratification of the deepened and comprehensive free trade areas between the EU and Ukraine. We are interested in improving the conditions for companies to operate, cultivating the business environment, bringing legislation closer to technical standards, certificates, reducing administrative burdens, liberalisation in the field of services. The objectives of the agreement are fully compatible with the interests of the Czech Republic. In addition to the above-mentioned modernization of trade relations, we expect a higher stability of the business environment and new opportunities for Czech entrepreneurs and companies. As regards recent information on the planned increase in import duties by Ukraine, we do not have any information at this time that would affect my previous words. The measures taken by Ukraine are a response to the critical balance of payments and are temporarily imposed on all importing countries for a period of one year without distinction, which the World Trade Organisation rules allow. However, we continue to monitor developments in this matter, as we are ready to monitor closely how Ukraine continues to implement reforms and meet the conditions. Because one of the conditions of this agreement and all economic aid is the assumption that Ukraine will carry out real economies not only within the state but within the economy after almost 25 years of the collapse of the Soviet Union. I myself am going with several entrepreneurs to visit Kiev next week, where we will discuss all the questions that interest us. The minimum question is ensuring the transit of energy raw materials through Ukraine, whether it's oil or gas. We are interested in finally meeting the recommendation made by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in 2009 during the first gas crisis to install gauges for gas pipelines on the Russian-Ukrainian border to separate transit from the internal Ukrainian network to reduce the risk of possible shocks. For the time being, I must say that thanks to the former European Commission, an agreement on transit and gas payment was reached just before the end, so the catastrophic gas supply scenarios, which would threaten Ukraine itself and eight other countries from Slovakia to the south, have, fortunately, not yet been fulfilled. However, we will continue to monitor this area and I would like to say that our national interest, despite the fact that we have alternative routes, is to use the easiest route to supply oil and gas, that is through Ukraine. The other routes are of course important, but in the optimal case as a reserve for possible international crises. We will, of course, also discuss economic issues, because one thing is this agreement, the other will be its enforcement. At this point, it is far from the relatively grey Ukrainian reality to what Ukraine has committed itself to and what we hope will also be enforced by this agreement. Of course, the minimum prerequisite is to make some agreements in Minsk, which were referred to by our colleague Zaorálek, while maintaining Ukraine's territorial integrity, which, of course, we support, even if it were to be some method, as it was used to maintain Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity territory in Dayton. For these reasons, and while I am aware that politically there are many things to discuss, I propose that this agreement be forwarded to further reading. We should have a debate in the committees, and perhaps not just in the foreign committee, on this matter, we should approve the agreement. What is, of course, for debate is the timetable for final approval, because in principle we have until the end of the year, then there could be some problems. And, of course, there is the possibility of an accompanying resolution, which I assume this House will apply and make a statement on certain matters. Personally, I think that we should not support a double standard in promoting human rights, which I feel is being used against Ukraine as opposed to some other countries. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u5	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade. Ms Jana Fischerová is now entitled to the speech of the Foreign Committee rapporteur. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u6	I thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your word and I will follow up on the words of the previous speakers. I will not go back to what the Foreign Minister said here, because that would be a repeat. I'll just add that, as many of you are following the current developments around the night meeting in Minsk, the agreement has been signed in the meantime, which is very well from my point of view, and I believe that this is how we all feel sitting here in the benches. Because personally, when I think about the overall situation here in the Czech Republic since 1990, such a threat in the surrounding countries, and when we actually feel for them, it's really something incredible that we have to pay due attention to. As rapporteur for this press, I will not go back to what I said in the general debate. It was December 10th last year. On that day, the Senate directly sat down and approved the ratification of this association agreement. That's just for the record, so we know. I was also interested in how the debate and the comments of other European Union states were held to sign this association agreement. We had the opportunity to negotiate with some colleagues here from the House with the Foreign Committee in Poland, Germany. For example, the Polák told us that there were 100% votes agreed very quickly. They've really been very helpful, very clear about this. And I want to say for myself and for the Civic Democratic Party Club, as we are debating it, and indeed Ukraine and our personal experience with this close eastern, I will say, friend, partner, is very important to us and I will add to that personal experience. When I spoke with the members of the partner delegation with Zakarpati last weekend, there we had the opportunity to discuss the matter at present, and those incredible losses that were also there on our lives, we think it is already such an interventional report for all of us that we must be helpful at this time, the Lower House of Parliament, and be helpful and nothing but now to show that we are not trampling on the spot, but we support this ratification of the association agreement. [[11.00 hours]] Let me summarize briefly what was discussed here on December 10th. There were 23 Members' contributions, and I am now looking in this direction, and I see a colleague of René Číp, who actually objected under Section 63 of the Rules of Procedure, or that he will certainly speak before the end of the general debate. Maybe I'll just get off again a little bit. I now want to conclude the general debate and the summary as rapporteur to say that I therefore recommend the referral to the second reading and discussion of the foreign committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur, Jana Fischerová. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. The general debate last time was interrupted or terminated after Mr René Číp tabled an amendment, i.e. a procedural proposal, to adjourn this item for an indefinite period. More can be found in the log. I will call my colleagues from the lobby, and I will vote on this procedural proposal. There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr René Číp's procedural proposal, which proposed this resolution - adjourn this item for an indefinite period. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 154 vote. 118 Members and Members are registered, for 35, against 76. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore continue with the general debate, in which Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, followed by Mrs Váhalová, Mr Foldyna, Mrs Zelienková, joined first with priority law. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u8	Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, this is, of course, a very serious matter that we are discussing. I have read with interest at least the Czech agency reports on 16 hours of negotiations for a ceasefire agreement in Ukraine and individual opinions. Of course, the question is what will continue to be the development of Ukraine as our European neighbour, as are the neighbours of other Eastern Partnership countries in terms of the Czech Republic, namely the European Union. What puzzles me, and let me share with you a matter that, in my opinion, is very astonishing and we should know the answer to it. Now I do not think of the embassies of the Ukrainian Republic, this may be requested by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or by the Committee of Foreign Affairs, but I quote what I have from my reports on the persecution of members of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The point is - I have publicly announced that we will help our partners in Ukraine with legal assistance, we are sending our lawyers, members of the party dealing with the case. Of course, we have the information quite factual. I'd say a few figures. Most of those prosecuted are for collecting petitions. I don't know if anyone realizes what a petition law is as one of the fundamental rights of citizens to express their will. People are being arrested for collecting petitions, people are being kidnapped by the administration of the secret service of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region - in this way on 11 May last year, for example, they captured Vladimír Primulov, who was interrogated, without any documents in Selatovo. He was then transferred to Kharkov. It was only the OSCE representatives who turned to the attorneys of the criminally prosecuted. When the lawyers from Greece, Portugal and the Czech Republic came forward, Mr Primulov was changed the status of the accused after his unofficial arrest under the Ukrainian Criminal Code - the suspect's status was changed to the status of witness in order to be able to register individual actions in criminal matters. Even worse it was with Mr. Archipov in the worried-luhan district, which representatives of the ASSU, i.e. the secret service of Ukraine, the administration of the secret service of Ukraine, was apprehended, was kidnapped, was missing all the time. He was found dumped in the fields. There is further criminal proceedings against him, even if he has not been properly charged, and once again it was a solution to the petition. The fate of Mr Sinajev was also problematic when police officers and members of the armed forces of Ukraine who refused to give their names were arrested by Mr Sinajev's wife. He was taken to the Luhan region, to the city of Starobilsk, there he was tortured. There's an OSCE record on it. When he was being held illegally in custody, officers beat him, ran an electric current on him, burned him on the body with a lighter, etc. After Mr. Sinajev's intervention, they stopped interrogating him as an accused and turned him into a witness to legalize the criminal record in any way. Then Mr. Sinajev's attorney took Mr. Sinajev back to his family in Kupjansk, where his relatives took him over. But he was kidnapped again for five days, and only after the OSCE intervention, after receiving the official talks of the ASSU Luhan region, he began to conduct the file against Sinajev as a witness. In this respect, I therefore ask how compatible Ukraine's criminal law is with the European Union's criminal law and other moments when one of the fundamental rights, the right to petition, the right to express its opinion is denied. [[11.10 hours]] I'm not gonna read another one, because I have seven pages of these files, the most common ones, and I just want to point out that they have one thing in common. That, in a way, the right to not only political opinion, political organisation, but also the right to the dissemination of petitions and, in a way, the regular conduct of self-governing authorities in individual places is being undermined. In this respect, it is therefore necessary to be aware, even in the negotiations on the association agreement, that the European Union, in its own way, is also responsible for how the situation will develop and where the negotiations are headed. I recall the difference, and this is a very serious difference, between Moldova's association agreement, which, of course, does not like some Moldovan politicians, but the outside of the association agreement, as we discussed here, is, I would say, the defence of a sovereign Moldovan state before it was emptied with passports from another state of the European Union, that is, Romania. Because of the former five million inhabitants, it's only 3.7 miles now. population and 750 thousand. Moldovan citizens are travelling with a Romanian passport, which had to be agreed in the spring of last year, and in the end we had no problem here in the Czech Parliament with confirmation of Moldova's association agreement to the European Union. Of course, they have to settle their economic and other relationships on their own, we have nothing to say about it. But as far as association is concerned, we should address this in every way. Given what's going on in Ukraine, I see this thing in a very different way than a vote on an association agreement of a common character. And when I recall, for example, the status of non-citizens in some Baltic states, Latvia and Lithuania, of course, the status of non-citizen, i.e. Lotyš, who does not speak Latvian, but Russian, his native language is Russian, is, in my opinion, a very dark spot on the face of the European Union, because Latvia is already a state of the Union. And if, at the beginning, we accept that the standard will be double or triple, I think that we will weaken the international position of the European Union rather than strengthen it in the necessary emancipation of the European Union on the international political stage of the multipolar world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u9	I thank the Vice-President. Another duly signed up is Mrs Dana Váhalová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u10	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an association agreement between the Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Ukraine on the other. Unfortunately, this agreement, which brings about a new stage in the development of contractual relations between the European Union and Ukraine, has also become one of the initiatives of current developments in Ukraine. The previous representation of Ukraine first supported this agreement, but then decided not to sign this agreement with a reference to the fact that if the European Union does not also compensate for the costs incurred by Ukraine, it is not prepared for it. This led, in the first stage, to democratic protests, which, however, have basically turned into armed takeovers and the removal of government. Although Ukraine has decided to step up the path of rapprochement with Europe, it is a big question of whether it is ready for this. Because she had significant problems before the current war conflict, and today she is experiencing a crisis with far-reaching consequences caused by the war in eastern Ukraine. For your information, according to estimates by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine one day of fighting in the east of Ukraine represents the cost of five to ten million dollars for the Treasury. Gross calculations show that the war takes not only a lot of money from the budget, but also led to a loss of up to 20 percent of Ukraine's economic performance and a loss of seven percent of its territory. Ukraine lost five percent of its GDP and the war in eastern Ukraine lost 10 to 15 percent of its GDP. Considering that Ukraine's GDP in 2013 was about 177 billion. dollars, this is a loss of up to 35 billion. $814 billion. Crowns. To that end, the cost of 850 thousand must be added. refugees from eastern areas. Moreover, the Ukrainian economy is experiencing a banking crisis. If he does not receive a stabilisation loan from the International Monetary Fund in the near future, he will face further losses. This means that Ukraine is currently not ready to meet the economic conditions of this Treaty. In the context of this information, I welcome the postponement of the economic part of the agreement until 2016. It is estimated that the costs for Ukraine may be around 15 billion. EUR per year to adapt the economy to European Union standards. It is clear that Ukraine is currently not ready for these expenditures. But if the war had lasted, I fear Ukraine would not have been prepared in 2016. In this context, the implementation of the political objectives of this Agreement will be very important. This means an emphasis on promoting the gradual convergence of the Contracting Parties on the basis of common values and strengthening political dialogue promoting the conservation and strengthening of peace and stability, both regionally and on a broader international scale. This Treaty should therefore become an instrument for stopping the continuation of the war in Ukraine and preventing it from spreading to other countries in Europe. The military solution only brings suffering to the civilian population and destroys the country's economy and viability. Both sides of the conflict need to comply with the new and difficult peace settlement agreement and compromises. I hope that the Ukrainian government will suppress the manifestations of neo-fascism and national intolerance that present some political forces in Ukraine, in the interests of all the citizens of Ukraine. This should also be allowed to happen in this Treaty. If peace is maintained in Ukraine, this country also has great potential for us, the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is the fifth largest exporter in Ukraine and the sixth largest importer in Ukraine between the Member States of the European Union. It is estimated that 450 miles. The Czech exporters could save CZK annually due to reduced customs costs when the economic contract starts to apply. One billion a year could also be enhanced by exports of Czech products to Ukraine due to changes in customs duties. GDP of the Czech Republic could increase by about CZK 2 billion and this could bring about 2 000 new jobs. But if there is a war in Ukraine, we can count on great losses. On the basis of all this information, I have decided to support this Treaty. However, my support at the moment is rather an expression of solidarity with the severely tested Ukrainian people. I also want to believe that this treaty can contribute to peace, democratic and sovereign Ukraine, which can free itself from all manifestations of neo-fascism and national intolerance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u11	Thank you, Mrs Váhalová. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Properly logged in. So duly applied first by Mr Okamura, followed by President Kalousek with priority rights. Then a duly signed-in Mr. Foldyna. However, I would like to inform you, my colleagues, that for 11.30 hours we have a firmly classified item in the Government's Security and Immigration Policy Information. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, to give room to my colleague Kalousek here, I really have it for five minutes. So don't worry. I know you're pointing your watch at me, but it's gonna be okay. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk here today about the treaty on Ukraine's association with the EU, it will be good to remember what actually triggered the bloody events in this country, the cause of the rise of the Nazis and fascists, which led to the separation of Crimea and the civil war in the east of Ukraine. Indeed, it was to a large extent a European Union policy that tried to drive a wedge between Russia and Ukraine. Let us remember that it is not just Putin Russia, but Russia, which, despite corrupt governments, fraud and theft of raw materials in Ukraine, has long subsidized Ukraine. And that is because Ukraine was and is, in essence, perceived by Russia as such a cradle of Russia. Ukraine is nothing but the original Kiev Russian, and the adjacent areas, which were not part of Russia, belonged to Austria-Hungary. The European Union, pushed by the United States of America, has decided to try to destabilize and transfer this country, which has historically belonged to Russia, into its sphere of influence. Not Russia, but in the first place, a large part of the people of Ukraine themselves perceived this and perceived it as a threat. The adoption of the association agreement is therefore a symbolic act which says that this country is to become a part of the European Union in the future. And I ask: can any of you, any of you responsible, imagine Ukraine becoming part of the European Union? Can any of you who are responsible imagine that not only the free trade zone but also the free movement zone would spread over Ukraine? Can anyone imagine how that would shake our labour market? The abolition of visas alone would result in the migration of hundreds of thousands, or rather millions, of people, not to mention the definitive free movement of persons. And all that has to do with it, including subsequent crime. Let's not get illusions about Ukraine. It's not a country of Democrats, Europhiles, who fight evil Russians. It is a country, of course, where there are many honest and hardworking people, but also a country that is shattered economically, politically and morally. There's stealing and murdering all over the place, every day. It's also being cheated at the highest level. The country's government seized power in a violent way that triggered civil war in the country. You can't sign agreements with people who murder citizens of their own country. At dawn, we're fundamentally against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u13	I apologize to President Kalousek. Minister Mládek, after whom President Kalousek, came forward with a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u14	I would like to take the liberty of responding, through Mr President, to the speech of President Okamura. There are many complicated issues around Ukraine that we will certainly be discussing here. But in my opinion, some things are clear and we should take a clear position there. We should be on the side of those who will push for Ukrainian citizens to come to the European Union at least as tourists, which is very difficult at the moment because they can only go visa-free if they get a biometric passport, and there are many restrictions. Of course, we must protect the labour market, but it must also be said that the Czech industry is interested in highly qualified people, including people from Ukraine. So on this issue, I think there should be unity and we should give a clear position. And all these difficult questions will be discussed further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u15	Sorry, Mr President, with a point of fact, President Okamura. [[to Mr Kalousek]] Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief reaction. Well, we have over half a million unemployed in the Czech Republic. And if the government policy to address the unemployment of Czech citizens is an influx of Ukrainian workers, I am fundamentally against it. And I'll give you proof. Last year, this government entered into a billion-dollar investment incentive agreement with the Korean company Nexen. [[Noise in the hall.]] As you know, you may not know, so in the contract where the Czech taxpayers' money is supported by jobs, there is no condition that citizens of the Czech Republic should be employed. The government has signed a contract with this company for huge taxpayers' money, for investment incentives, where it is written on this point that it is a condition to employ not citizens of the Czech Republic, but citizens of the European Union. Or, in the end, these companies, like many other companies that we have on industrial zones, will cut wages. Finally, the Czech citizen can't work for them because his family just can't make a living, and there will be Bulhar, Rumun, possibly. However, the citizens of the Republic of Poland, who, of course, are also citizens of the European Union, have lower wage demands. So if this is government policy on employment, it really isn't. Yes, that's what the contract says. Read that there, dear friends. There is a requirement to employ citizens of the European Union, not the Czech Republic. [[with emphasis]] It's black and white, dear friends, I've already criticized this place last year. So I'm just responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u17	Once again, I apologize to the President. With a factual remark, the Minister of Agriculture defends the government's honour. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I would very much like to see Mr Okamura through Mr President... Actually, I can directly... So he's going to study the actual state of affairs first, and he's not going to confuse the fifth over nine here, and he's not mixing pears with apples. The principle of job occupation in the labour market in the Czech Republic is clearly given. It doesn't change anything. If I have a position here... Citizen of the Czech Republic, citizen of the European Union. If we don't find anyone in this set of people, then at that point, someone else in another country can get the job. So, first, study these things, please, nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u19	There. I apologise, with a point of fact, first Mr Bendl, then Mr Kalousek, then Mr Okamura, which will come out by 11.30 when we have a fixed point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u20	Thank you. It's technical. Through Mr President - tell the Minister that he must through Mr President. That he should finally read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u21	I thank Mr Bendl. Now with priority... Sorry, President Kalousek made a point of fact before you, then Mr Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u22	I'm sorry. I have nothing left but to change the priority right to a factual one, perhaps I can make it to say the very brief position of the TOP 09 MEP. With regard to this government proposal for a treaty, there is clear support. As for the brief response to some of our previous speakers. I ask that we consider whether we want to follow rules or feelings and propaganda in this world. If we want to follow the rules, then when we talk about the line of reference, which is the concept that Minister Zaorálek has said here several times, for civilized people the only line of reference is the borders internationally recognised by international agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, and we cannot take any other point of reference seriously! I am very pleased that some agreement has been concluded, and I am afraid that this agreement will not respect international conventions recognised by borders. And I firmly hope that the whole civilized world will continue to try from this agreement to make sure that those borders apply and that certain principles of international law and the stability of this world do not fall, because it is based on rules and not on feelings and ideas. [[with emphasis]] Ladies, if you scream less at each other, maybe I'll have more time after that. [[To two Members sitting near the pitch. The noise in the hall and the overall tense atmosphere.]] I also firmly hope that both the Czech Government and the Chamber of Deputies will realise that the biggest security risk of the Czech Republic is the expansion of the Rus and its inability to accept the results of the Cold War, and not other, not so media-whipped topics, to divert our attention from our greatest danger. It's the expansion of Russian imperialism!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u23	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now, with a point of fact, President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u24	Hello. Well, I would only react briefly to Minister Jurečka. Minister, first study the Rules of Procedure, because I can address you directly, but you cannot address us directly. So stop lecturing here and study the law first. [[From the benches from the left, the answer is: May!]] Sorry... Well, that's what the previous speaker said. I learned my lesson, too. But at least I'm not wise here. And the second thing is the employment bill. Mr. Secretary, you really don't have a degree. Because in that law, when you're looking for a vacancy, you first put the terms on the employment office. And that's the problem with the Vietnamese stores, etc. They put in conditions that the Czech candidate cannot meet. For example, graduation in Vietnamese. And then you wait for a Czech citizen to sign up for the job. It's because he can't even sign up - and there's that hole in the law I criticized last time. Or you put in such a low wage that the Czech citizen doesn't want to sign up for again. And it is the condition of education in a language that is not real in the Czech Republic. I'm asking why a Vietnamese salesman has to have a graduation in Vietnamese at a Vietnamese curfew. On the contrary, he should speak Czech. [[11.30 hours]] This means that today the law is designed so that you can put on the contrary conditions that the Czech citizen cannot meet, and then the very foreigners are taking on it. So it's not like that, and there's the hole. I already talked about this with Minister Chovanc last year and that it would be good in this sense to amend the Employment Act. There is a hole, Minister, and that is why a number of foreign nationals are being gathered here, even to places that a Czech citizen can occupy, if for example. was not a condition in a foreign language that does not really need to be sold. That's just for your information, because I myself have personal experience with it from my own companies, so I really know this exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-009-079.u25	I thank Prime Minister Okamur, and since it's 11:30, I interrupt... [[A Member of the Germans is reporting a word.]] I'm sorry, my colleague, it's been 11.30 hours, I have to cut point 79. Initiating item number
