ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, as amended /house print 626/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the bill is to be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, or by the Government's resolution, the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok is responsible. For this I have the relevant Government resolution at my disposal, signed by the Prime Minister. I will therefore ask that one of the officials take the position at the rapporteur's table. I will ask Mr Jan Volný, who is the rapporteur for this press. I note that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 626/1. My colleague Volný is here, so he may take his place at the rapporteur's table, but I do not see the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Transport. [[He's just walking into the hall]] I see the Minister of Finance now. I'm going to ask the House for peace, because I can't give the Minister of Finance a word yet for a lot of noise... I ask my colleague Zavadil not to delay the Deputy Prime Minister because he is next. I ask the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš to state the government's bill at the beginning of the second reading. I'm really asking for peace! Mr Vondráček has a replacement card number 68. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce a bill amending the Lottery Act and other similar games. This bill was submitted by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies in the light of the development of the amendment to the Lottery Act submitted by Mr Jan Volný, which is the Parliamentary Press 437. The draft law was discussed at first reading on 27 October 2015 and was discussed on 4 November 2015 by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The aim of the proposal is to increase the taxation of gambling from 1 January 2016 in accordance with the coalition agreement and the Government's programming declaration. Gambling is one way to counter the harmful consequences of gambling for society and for players themselves. Taxes are not to be used to change the behavior of society or to educate it. That's what prevention and education programs are for. Taxes are mainly a source of income for public budgets. Yet, there is no doubt that they have a certain influence on behavior. Examples are, for example, excise duties on smokers or alcohol consumers. Similarly, the lottery levy affects gambling operators to a certain extent, and thus also gamblers. The lottery levy is mainly motivated fiscally, but it was designed to fit as a support measure into a broader concept, the main objective of which is to prevent the harmful consequences of gambling. A new gambling law will bring fundamental measures against the harmful consequences of gambling. However, this additional measure must be notified and therefore cannot be implemented immediately. It is therefore proposed to increase the lottery levy rate to 23 per cent for all gambling, except for winning instruments and similar devices, for which it is proposed to increase the proportional levy rate to 28 per cent. It is also proposed to increase the fixed levy rate to CZK 80 per day for these devices and equipment. [[14.10 hours]] The proposed bill further changes the budgetary determination of the contributions, so that the additional revenue of the contributions is received by the State budget. Therefore, the ratio between the State and the municipality of the distribution of the partial contribution from the winning instrument and similar equipment varies from 80 to 20 in favour of the municipalities to 60 to 40 in favour of the municipalities. The proposed changes should generate an additional yield for the state budget of 1.8 to 2.2 billion. CZK per year, the yield of municipal budgets should be maintained approximately. Since the levy period for lotteries and other similar games is a calendar year, a change in rates should take effect on 1 January 2016. For this reason, I hope that the deadline between second and third reading will need to be reduced to seven days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u3	I thank Mr Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš, and now I ask the rapporteur of the Budget Committee, Mr Jan Volný, to present his report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, I will just state that this is press No. 626, which was sent to Members 13. 10. 2015. As part of the first reading, the period of discussion between the first and the second reading was shortened to eight days. About 30. 10. 2015, which was designated by the Committee on Budgets for the submission of amendments, no amendment was adopted, therefore 4. 11. The Committee on Budgets adopted its decision in full to discuss it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I begin the debate, I state another apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. At 5 p.m., Mr. Josef Nekl apologizes for personal reasons. So I am now opening up a debate, we have four enrolled in the debate. The President of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek and the rapporteur are given priority rights. That's the two priority rights I have right now. I'll take that in the order you signed up for. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u6	Okay. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Once again, I will appreciate that the government has decided to put forward changes to tax rates as a government proposal, because it has not been acceptable as a parliamentary proposal both for the various priorities of Members, who should all be equal, and also because tax amendments should be government. It is not true that the government has put forward the same basically with the minor amendments tabled by the Volný Member. On the contrary, the government has put forward an absolutely fundamental conceptual change because, contrary to the increase in the single rate, it has presented different rates. It is indeed a fundamental conceptual change that is discussed in a number of countries in terms of tax theory, and it is, of course, wrong. We can even find this in the comments of the Chamber of Commerce that it contradicts tax theory, and it really contradicts tax theory. In a number of countries, we can also see that some countries flirt with it in far more fundamental cases, such as food, that they actually consider that foods tax at different rates according to their degree of health harm, such as. sausages which have been included by the World Health Organisation in the list of carcinogenic products should be taxed at a much higher rate than vegetables or milk. I really don't think so, and I would very strongly protest. Everyone has to eat, nobody has to bet. So, in the case of betting and gambling, the different rates - while emphasising, even there is conflicting with tax theory - are acceptable, it is understandable, and, after all, if we look at the countries of the European Union and OECD countries, in most countries, the rates are actually graduated. I don't have a problem with them being graduated here. That is the difference between the government's proposal and Mr Volný's proposal. In my opinion, the difference is absolutely fundamental. This means saying that the government is presenting something similar to Mr Volný, it is simply not true. The government is presenting something diametrically different that we are essentially able to welcome and we are able to support. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] What makes us feel deeply disappointed is yesterday's meeting on the Committee on Budgets, when we tried in vain from the petitioner... I know security issues are important, too, but I'm not gonna yell at her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u7	Understood, Mr. Ambassador, I'll try to settle down. I understand that the Permanent Commission for the Inspection of the General Inspection of the Armed Forces has a lot to do, so please transfer the discussions to the lobby and let other colleagues who are interested in the Lottery Act discuss all speeches. Please proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u8	One more time, then. We felt a great disappointment about yesterday's budget committee meeting when we were hoping, at least some of us will hear from the petitioner, from the finance minister, why at the time of distribution, why exactly 28 and 23, why the difference is five points, why it is not six points, seven points or four points, as the expected efficiency curve in these alternatives looks like a quantity, the level of risk of promoting illegal gambling, which is simply not affected by this proposal, while legal gambling is being prosecuted. That means where the risk level is, how much legal gambling we're gonna push into that illegal gamble. Unfortunately, we haven't learned any of this. From the petitioner, from the Minister of Finance, we learned that he didn't know. "Don't ask me that, ask the coalition partners, I don't like the rates either, it's a coalition agreement" announced the petitioner for the government. Well, we who are not members of the coalition are hard to settle for. We would like some information on why the difference is just five points, why the rates are only two, why there aren't three, when the new proposal on the lottery law, which was supposed to apply from 1. 1. 2016 but since the Minister is a year and a half late and unable to identify in time, it will be valid only from 1. 1. 2017, so why does a year want to have two rates and then it wants to have three rates, we don't know. We'd like to have that information, and the Minister said to us on the budget committee yesterday, "I don't know either, ask the coalition partners." So, government colleagues, from the government coalition, is there anyone here who knows? Who can say why there will be two rates and three rates in 2016 and why 23-27? I say again, we don't want to look like troublemakers at all costs. For Club TOP 09 I say, the condition that this will be a government proposal has been met. We're not going to block the shortening of the deadline, we're ready to support the proposal and support it. But we would really like to hear from the translator that he knows why it is, or - because yesterday he told us he didn't know, I told Babiš, I don't know, ask the coalition partners - if the minister could say: I don't know, but my colleague Chalupa here knows, he will tell you, or Mrs profesor. Válková, she will tell you. Just if someone could tell us. We really don't know. Well, that's one question I think we deserved to be answered. The second question concerns the promotion of illegal gambling. We're looking forward to actually raising more money for the state budget by increasing the taxes. At the same time, however, the Minister says so, and he says so in the explanatory report that it means fighting gambling, that it means limiting gambling. But this is where they contradict each other. The extra 2 billion is a simple three-member from the existing betting base in the Czech Republic. [[14.20 hours]] If what is now betting in legal gambling is taxed at higher rates, then 2 billion will be collected from the existing base. But if what's written in the explanatory statement is that it means limiting gambling, there's no way to withdraw $2 billion from it. That's what we all know about three-pieces. Either they're either paying one or they're paying the other. The Minister is not telling us the truth either because it means restricting gambling, or he is not telling us the truth about two billion. That's also the answer we probably deserve. The third answer concerns that we are in a situation that we must accept. But we need to be aware of that. We can't wave at each other - and I say again, we'll support it. But it would be very hypocritical if we waved a battalion over our heads and said we're fighting gambling here. That's not true. There's two sectors next to each other. The legal gambling sector, it means registered entrepreneurs who try to uphold laws and pay taxes, and the illegal gambling sector. The law that we are about to discuss tightens the conditions for legal gambling and does not tighten the conditions for illegal gambling at all. So in that competition, legal gambling - illegal gambling laughs. There's no danger of that, and legal will be tougher. Which one of these two makes a living on it? The illegal one, of course. He runs illegals in the great majority of the Albanian mob. I asked the Minister of Finance yesterday about the budget committee whether there was any truth to the rumors that he had an agreement with the Albanian mob in this regard. He said he didn't, he didn't. I thank him for his answer. I have no reason not to believe it. I read this morning that he's asking for state security because he probably doesn't want to have his own private. So I'd like to ask him what's true about the fact that his private security detail is equipped with Albanian sharp boys guarding him. Why are the Albánec watching him? It's his business, of course. Private security, which he pays for himself. But in connection with the promotion of illegal gambling, it's quite interesting information. If that's true, why did he choose Albánec? If that's not true, if he says it's not true, then of course I'll believe him again. But I think that's pretty important information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u9	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Furthermore, with priority rights, the rapporteur, Mr Jan Volný. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. I originally just wanted to ask this honourable House to vote on a shortening of the time for discussion between second and third readings. That's what I'm doing. I will take advantage of my priority right to answer any questions to Mr Kalousek's colleague. So I'll take the liberty of going a little bit into history. Let me turn the question around a little bit. I will ask why President Kalousek, as Minister of Finance, taxed gambling at one rate in 2011, that is to say 20 percent, and why he did not give two, three rates at that time. When I tabled an amendment, of course, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, we wanted to make it as simple as possible for one year. I assumed that Mr Kalousek's colleague was a great expert, and now I don't mean it pejoratively, and the first person to pay the gambling tax at the time had a well-verified why he was giving one rate. That is why I have put a 25% rate in my amendment, even though it is now called this amendment, or rather, the amendment by my colleague, President Kalousek, for paskvil. So I served 25 percent. Yes, it's debatable: Is that correct? Is that wrong? It's true that division has its logic, which is why the big new law has its division. However, on the basis of this amendment of mine, an amendment came in which even more than five percentage points were to be made, and it was 21 and 30. At that point, we already knew that 30 percent could already go into some kind of gamble in the gray economy. That is why we acted and negotiated a coalition ratio of 23, 28. It is a bit paradoxical that President Kalousek signaled last week, and I have been asked by journalists several times that he will make an amendment, where he will raise one more percentage point of 28 percentage points. I said yes to that, he has a proposal. It's basically coming to a point where this kind of gambling is going to be in big trouble. However, it would probably be, if necessary, manageable. However, the numbers that are on the table today, that means 23 and 28, still according to the Ministry of Finance's documents and some curve, which objectiveizes the amount of taxation and the risk of gambling going into the grey economy, is still in some way graspable. We know that the new law counts on this type of 35 percent tax, these are the automatons, but it doesn't count on a fixed rate of 55, 80 or 110. That'll be basic, like a minimum. That means that essentially the 28 we're arguing now is plus or minus equal to the 35 percent we're up to. I think there's gonna be a lot of discussion about this. It will be possible to discuss this precisely within the framework of the big law. I'm a little sorry, or maybe it's a good thing that no amendments came to that, just for the percentages. You know that I mentioned here that there was none coming to the deadline when the Committee on Budgets decided to end the amendments. Now we're criticizing it. I am a little sorry, but I ask the honourable House to approve this in the form of a government proposal, which is now on the table, possibly with some amendments, with sensible amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now I have three factual points. Mr Kalousek, Mr Fiedler and Mr Stanjura. First point of fact, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u12	Thank you. I join the proposal for a reduction of seven days to show that there is indeed a consensus, and I will reply to Mr Volný, why we proposed 20 percent in 2011. Because we started from scratch. Because we were completely blind. Because before here, I was the first finance minister to tax gambling, which means we had no idea what it would do. It turned out okay. We started to collect about 5 to 6 billion per year and it was possible to start matching parameters. But at the same beginning, we had to be very careful and conservative. What you're saying is that 28 isn't pushing into the gray economy yet, 30 yes, that would be an argument that I would understand if the Minister were able to tell us the numbers yesterday. But I repeat again what the Minister told us yesterday. You weren't there, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister said: I don't know, I don't like it either, ask the Coalition Members. He hasn't been able to answer our questions to the expert authority. Therefore, logically, I cannot present any amendment today because I wanted to rely on him for some technical information from the Minister of Finance. But the only professional information of the Treasury Secretary was that he didn't know. That's why I'm so embarrassed and sad and I can't put anything forward. I want to ask the government if next time someone who knows anything about them could submit tax rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur is just leaving. I hope two minutes is enough. I would have responded here to a request to shorten the deadline. I presend we'll support a shortening of the deadline. We're not gonna try to block it. It was said here that there was an interest in this law finally passing through the House. I have looked into what has happened here in the past about the Rules of Procedure when we talk about shortening the time, and I will read to you when the ANO movement here proposed an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. [[14.30 hours]] "In accordance with the draft, the period between second reading in which amendments to standards are tabled and final approval shall be extended. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure are intended to prevent the House from voting on under-negotiated proposals whose effects are not fully known. The current deadline between second and third reading is three days, it can be reduced to two days. The deadline should be extended to two weeks according to the proposal.' This was suggested by members of the government's ANO movement. Where we are today, just remember what's proposed, what's next, as we say, dart approval, hurry up, hurry up, make sure it's approved. To what has also been said here, and it is a pity that the rapporteur is not here. I do not wish to comment on the time when I was not in this Chamber of Deputies. But I can also ask why this amendment to the Act, which changes tax rates, was not submitted by the Ministry of Finance before when it was known that the government amendment was a problem. Why are we only discussing this now that we could have dealt with this many and many months ago. I'll save the rest for the proper application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u15	That was Mr Fiedler, and now Mr Stanjura also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u16	I have a factual comment on the rapporteur's speech. He introduces such a new custom and tells us that we have not made timely amendments to the Committee on Budgets. Let us try to say this: On October 27, the first reading ended, October 28 was a public holiday, and by 30, we were to make amendments. The term is awfully short. Moreover, yesterday, all the committees or the Committee on Budgets met, it is logical that the person who tabled the amendment should be present at the Guarantee Committee. And in the Chamber of Deputies, it is not only the members and members of the Committee on Budgets. So that's an argument that's useless. The Rules of Procedure state that amendments shall be tabled at second reading. And today, 20 minutes ago, we started second reading. So what kind of errand did you say it wasn't in advance and not October 30th? Let's not bend the Rules of Procedure. I have tabled two amendments. Then I will give them due reasons in the debate. But just having a few hours to make amendments is the problem of who overslept and who passed the bill late. That's pretty simple. Just to complement Mr Kalousek's speech, the Minister of Finance did not say that he did not know who proposed the rates. He said they were designed by the Home Secretary. And he said, well, Mr. Bartošek agreed, and that's why it's 28, 23. That's how the debate ran on the budget committee. So I've revealed a secret that is no secret, because the budget committee's meeting is public. Rates 28 and 23 were proposed by the Interior Minister and the Vice-President of the House agreed to this. And the Minister of Finance said, well, what do I do, that's a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u17	I thank Mr Stanjur. One more point in fact from the rapporteur, Mr Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u18	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, must give Mr Stanjur the truth through you. I sighed that he didn't have the opportunity to discuss it with the Committee on Budgets. This does not mean that an amendment cannot be tabled, and I will certainly be happy if there are any amendments that we can discuss. So I'm sorry again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u19	Thank you. We will now proceed to the duly signed up for the debate. The first is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Once again, I ask the House for peace! If you have other topics to discuss, move them into the foyer so that the colleague can speak calmly. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will comply with Mr Volný, and I will try to put forward one amendment that we can discuss. It relates to quizomats and takes the following form: In Article I, the following points (x) and (y) are inserted: (x) In Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 the words "in whole or in part" shall be inserted after the words "win or lose." A point y) In Article 2 (a) of CRR, the following definitions apply: (l) the words "in whole or in part" shall be inserted after the word "coincidences." The existing amendments points 1 to 5 are exceeded. The reason why I am proposing this amendment is that it is a response to the imperfection of the current legislation, which does not allow the local authorities, according to the prevailing interpretation, to operate effectively. quizomats in their territory. In the case of these devices, it is only partly not entirely that chance decides on winning or losing. In the interests of legal certainty and, in particular, the above-mentioned possibilities of municipalities and cities to regulate the operation of such facilities on their territory by their legislation, as is the case with other similar instruments, it appears necessary to react by modifying the definition of gambling contained in Section 1 (1). 2 of the Lottery Act. The wording of this amendment, which responds to an acute and serious problem, is based on the wording of the Government Bill on Gambling, House Press No. 578. This proposal awaits a long journey through the legislative process and its effectiveness is proposed for 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Ladislav Šincl in the general debate. Mr Karel Fiedler will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to begin by adding to the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will listen to me, through the President. The rapporteur, Mr Free, said that no amendment has been approved in the Committee on Budgets. She's right, but he wasn't presented either. That's kind of important. And I would also like to add to the debate here and stand up for the future Chairman of the TOP 09, Mr Kalousek, who, if I remember correctly, presented even three bands in 2011 as part of his amendment to the lottery, three gambling tax zones. And even there, if I remember correctly, was 50 percent for the number lottery. However, as part of my first reading, I also regret that this government proposal does not contain the idea that I advocated in the discussion of the predecessor of this press, the Chamber of Press 437 of my fellow Volný, in order that at least a small part, one percent of the funds from the lottery levy that is receiving the state budget, be assigned to a specific public purpose, namely a state drug policy which also includes the issue of gambling and pathological gambling, as stated in the Government's programming declaration. I believe that at least a small part of the revenue from gambling should serve this purpose, which is why I have also considered submitting an amendment to this press. I also considered submitting an amendment to the previous amendment, which would mean that a significant part of the additional proceeds from gambling would be received by Czech athletes, so that I could help the Minister fulfill his promises to the public, for example, at the Žofín Forum at the end of 2014 and then at the press conference. Just to remind you: The Minister has announced - I quote - that by introducing new tax rates on gambling we will be able to raise up to CZK 6 billion, and I think that within this sport could easily get another 3 billion. I would like to quote further from his speech: "The sport would actually multiply its revenues by 100 percent and we could spend up to six billion crowns on sport from 2016. " In today's government proposal, however, when one of you reads it, a higher yield is promised in the proposal, not the already promised 6 billion plus, as the Minister said at the press conference, but only by 2 billion plus thus. However, in order not to complicate the process of approving this amendment, I will not put forward the proposals that I have mentioned here, and I will be the main one, the one percent to deal with pathological phenomena and gambling, in the framework of a long-awaited government amendment to the Lottery Act. [[14.40 hours]] On this occasion, however, I would like to ask the Minister once again the question of how the promised yield will be dealt with today, i.e. with the extra 2 billion plus that are promised in this government amendment 626. I asked the Minister that question yesterday on the Committee on Budgets. He told me that sports would be added to 500 million extra crowns. I stress - 500 million extra crowns. On the basis of my experience, however, I am used to doing so several times - I stress several times - to verify, so today I contacted the representative of the Ministry of Education, whether they can confirm this information that they will receive CZK 500 million extra. I got the answer that compared to the real - I stress the real, not with the planned, originally budgeted - income for sport through MŠMT over the past period, that is this year, namely this year, there will be no increase next year. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister here on this occasion how it is and whether his promises, which he made in the Žofín Forum, are valid and what concrete will be determined by the additional revenue promised today plus CZK 2 billion. How much of this amount coming from gambling gets sport - I repeat how much sport it gets - and whether it could also say how many of these funds will be assigned next year to state drug policy, which includes the issue of gambling and pathological gambling, as stated in the government's programming declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u23	I thank Mr Ladislav Šincl. I now have Mrs Lorencová's point of order. Mr Fiedler will continue. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u24	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I just have a brief remark. I mean, based on what I know about gambling, he's a minimum, but from what I know, every country, every state, like an eye in the head, watches the proceeds of this kind of business. The generosity we are witnessing in the Czech Republic has roots somewhere, and it's been going on for a long time. I'm just pointing out - gambling isn't here until our century, it's hundreds of years backwards. Every country's been keeping an eye on it, because the proceeds are, of course, we know that, and I know that, huge. Today, when this government coalition and this government are trying to get at least part of the proceeds back into the Treasury, we are witnessing almost obstruction and some kind of threat that nothing will pass unless the other party's opinion is accepted. I think it needs to be paid a lot of attention and, at least, part of the profit from this kind of business is getting into that treasury.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u25	Thank you, Mrs Jana Lorencová. We are now continuing the general debate. Member Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon again, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to inform you, as some of my previous speakers have told you a little about the course of yesterday's budget committee, which, although I no longer want to pursue this issue, because the coalition is obviously agreed, we are not going to block it, we are not going to obstruct it, we are not going to do it, our party, I changed my opinion after yesterday's budget committee, and I want to comment on it. I have come to the impression that the Ministry of Finance is only under the distress of the promised gambling tax collection and that it doesn't care at all about the expansion of illegal business and doesn't really care about the reduction of negative influences, especially pathological gambling. My colleague Šincl asked quite rightly yesterday whether the increased tax bill should also go to prevent and treat pathological gambling, and the Minister replied that he did not count on it and did not see why he should be directing the money there. Here I would ask the petitioner to explain why he refuses to finance the prevention of pathological gambling from this specific tax. On my three-time question yesterday, whether I can be explained by the explanatory report - I stress the explanatory note - and also the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, which says that - I quote - "the main objective of the proposed proposal is to reduce the harmful effects of gambling on society and on players themselves" I did not get the answer. I'm sorry, but I really can't find a causal link between raising taxes to legal firms and reducing harmful effects. I therefore ask the petitioner to answer this question at least here at the House plenary at second reading, so that all Members of this Chamber of Deputies can get acquainted with this argument. At the opening of today's point, it was said by the petitioner, the Minister, that the purpose of this is not to address the consequences, but the explanatory report says otherwise, or tries to argue, even though I question it. Here I see another contradiction between what is being presented, I do not want to say that it is directly claimed and what is in the explanatory memorandum and what is actually being presented to us. Another quote from the Committee on Budgets was recorded and quoted by the media, and that is when the Minister said that this amendment was just about money, it has no logic and agreed on a coalition. Please register the words: It's about money, it's not logical and they agreed on a coalition. On top of that, the Deputy Minister has confirmed that they have been registering a major increase in illegal gambling halls lately. But I've already gotten my attention here. There was then a discussion between colleague Stanjura and Deputy Minister Hornochová, where I must clearly state to my colleague Stanjura that the analysis of tax rates should have been part of the bill. I can say I don't know what's right either. If 25 percent plus 55 per day, or 28 plus 55, or 80 plus 110 per day, and I don't remember the mix of designs that were designed here. And now I realize that here today by the translator, I don't blame him in any way, I'm just saying that it was said here that the proposed taxation for so-called. boxes 28 and 1 per cent more could be hard to accept and they would already be in trouble. I am just stressing that the current government amendment proposes 28 plus 80, and so if, according to the promoter, 29 plus 80 could be choking and deadly to the operator, then why did we have a proposal here that even suggested 28 plus 110. I don't get it anymore. It doesn't make any sense. I know the Minister cannot know everything, but the biggest surprise of yesterday's budget committee was that neither the Minister nor the Deputy Minister had any idea that the big lottery law had not been notified and the deadline for notification was extended until February 2016. I am in no way an expert on notification, but this information on the course of the notification procedure is publicly available on the Commission website www.eu.europa.eu. And so that the subordinates of the finance minister did not inform him of this fact and he came as a petitioner to the budget committee of the House and did not know this information, it seems to me that rather, perhaps they wanted to conceal this information from him. I can't imagine that he really wasn't informed by his subordinates and would come unprepared. Especially since we've been listening for a year and a half to the presentation of a perfect gambling law. [[14.50 hours]] Here I would turn again to what I registered this morning on the news of Czech Television, when the Vice Prime Minister said that the amendment deals with a comprehensive gambling lottery. Yes, the government amendment, which is still being postponed, the House press 578, 579, 580, which you could say, not at the House press 626, which only - only! - solves tax increases and doesn't solve anything else. As I would say, it is not entirely true or the situation is being used. For the record, what I found yesterday, that so-called. a detailed opinion was given by the European Commission itself, then Malta, but this is a paradise for Internet licenses, and then it also commented on Austria, where, as we have already seen in the media, the headquarters of a large multinational company, which, according to the media, is also planning arbitration against the Czech Republic. So I'm based on information from the media. Dear colleagues, many of you here are not only Members, but also municipal politicians, and many of you will certainly confirm that the state cannot put you in a situation where it promises you the same income from the lottery bill - and now I doubt this part of the amendment - but above all, it leaves you with the full impact of the boom of illegal gambling, to which it gives another tax holiday for the next year, and thus supports its expansion in essence. It is the role of the state and the regulator to be able to regulate this environment strictly and effectively, which, let's face it, we will never eradicate, even if I am completely foreign and distant. Municipalities and cities must deal with much more complex and serious problems than some quizmata, which, moreover, few people know at least what we know here, now that we are dealing with it in the Chamber of Deputies. I will not repeat that the Ministry of Finance has quite the opposite rhetoric in electronic sales records, and that it is necessary to tax those companies which do not pay taxes and which do not show their sales. Here, however, it grants tax holidays - and let's really call it tax breaks - to illegal operators, at least throughout 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u27	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask my colleagues to remain calm, although I understand that the rapporteur needed to make a deal. [[Free Member standing at the bench on the left]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u28	Thank you. That is why I have come up with an amendment which, unlike all others - as I have discovered, has added one from Mrs Kovářová - also addresses the issue of quizomats. I'm sure you'll object to me destroying the tax increase. No way. On the contrary, I support higher taxation. And I am the only one here to present an amendment that increases taxes, in full compliance with the government statement, and even with the government proposal. I fully respect the division of rates according to social hazard, forcefully and in accordance with the model of government design, I copy the rate for technical equipment, and for this I deal with a clear ban on the operation of quizomats. I realise, of course, that this part must be notified, but this is resolved by a different efficiency for the part relating to rates that would have been effective from 1 January 2016 - here I stress that we are really going in the spirit with the government and that we are interested in passing through this - and the part prohibiting quizoons after their notification. And this, especially for the reason that we keep seeing that the big government amendment, its solutions, and its entry into force - at the moment, the notification is being extended - is moving indefinitely. I would very much like to solve illegal traffic on the Internet, but here it is much more complicated. And with reference to yesterday's statement by the Deputy Minister that the issue of Internet blocking and payment blocking is a very complicated matter, I will settle for at least a partial solution to the problem of quizomats that plagues cities and municipalities. The state is completely helpless in this case. The whole situation regarding quiz machines is about the interpretations of the lottery law whether or not these instruments are legal. This small amendment will certainly make it very clear that they are illegal - I mean the amendment I am proposing, the amendment - and that whoever commits the operation of these devices is also committing crime. When I look at the state with which the Ministry of Finance seeks to increase gambling taxation, I would really ask why it does not seek to combat illegal markets and quisomats and other similar facilities with such force. At least the same novel as e.g. my attempt and my attempt to solve it. Now you'll be interested in rates, and how I got them. Sports and moose probably pose no social danger, perhaps minimal. However, I also add another 1 % to these games compared to the current state. The odds betting is followed with plus 2 per cent and, for technical equipment, I leave responsibility for determining the rate according to the government's proposal, i.e. 28 per cent, plus 80 crowns of the daily fee, as the government submits in the Houses of the Press 626. I believe that my amendment itself will evaluate the coalition as an effective or perhaps most effective solution to this entire predicament. And let's call it the real names - it's the time before the adoption of new tax legislation increasing the lottery levy and at the same time denying or denying illegal gambling. With this proposal, quisomats would clearly become illegal facilities that cannot be operated throughout the territory, i.e. in any of the six thousand cities and municipalities. Plus, what I just said here. Indeed, the fact that this current government amendment, press 626, does not address the absolutely illegal market, I do not consider it right and I think that at least this minimum step that I propose in my amendment should be tried to address the illegal part of the lottery market. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I believe in the support of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u29	I thank Mr Fiedler. And before we go any further, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. As of 15.30, Mr Miroslav Opálka, from 14.05 Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, from 5 p.m. Mr Votava, Mr Zbyněk Syblík from 16 p.m., Mr Kasal for working reasons for the afternoon meeting and Mr Votava, Mr Zbyněk Syblík from 16 p.m. to 21 p.m. We are continuing the general debate by Mr Karel Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u30	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to mention that we still do not distinguish between real, hard gambling and risky lottery games. There is a huge difference between a player who sits long hours in front of a slot machine and a person who buys an advent ticket, a raffle ticket or a Sports ticket. In our country today is dominated by gambling, not lottery, which is caused by faulty regulation. This is exactly the opposite in the countries of the European Union. In the Czech Republic they are the most economically successful, which took 16 billion in 2014. CZK and thus make up an incredible half of the market. The numerical lotteries, according to income, accounted for around 12 percent of the market with about 4 billion. CZK, internet exchange rate bets followed with 11 %, exchange rate bets at branches 6 % and betting games at casinos 4 % followed. However, the lack of tax collection and gambling levies is not only due to the current rates that the current amendment seeks to increase, but, above all, to the lack of and poor quality regulation of the whole sector allowing a significant share of illegal operators escaping with impunity to any taxation. The ratio of the number of slot machines to the population is also disproportionate due to the lack of regulation in our country. It is 23 times higher than in neighbouring Austria. Costs related to their operation - they are estimated at about 30 billion. annually - they are transferred to social resources. [[15.00 hours]] However, only a fiscally targeted amendment to the existing and undoubtedly non-compliant law can, without an adequate regulatory framework, not only additionally burden legal gambling operators, but also favour and expand the illegal market, especially by the factual support of operators of so-called hard gambling, another indirect bonding of illegal operators and the overall distortion of the market. Competition in the market may distort and the social effects of poorly regulated gambling may aggravate further poorly differentiated tax increases to all operators. The increased taxation of the government proposal continues to ignore the different social hazards of the various types of gambling and the difference in expenditure that the state is forced to incur in connection with the mitigation and remediation of the negative effects of gambling. On the contrary, in the European Union, socially fairer differentiated taxation of gambling is supported according to the harmfulness of the impact on society. Such a system of taxation also sets non-discriminatory conditions in terms of undistorted competition. Otherwise, the operators of socially harmless games are involved in similar taxation in the correction of the socially negative effects generated by the hard-gambling operators, thereby effectively indirectly supporting the operators of harmful gambling from public sources with an unjustified and unprecedentedly low tax burden. In Austria, for example, the federal tax on online lotteries is 16 per cent of the difference in bet and winning, the tax on casino operations is between 35 and 80 per cent of the difference in bet and winning. In fact, the proposed seemingly neutral higher taxation burden increases discrimination against socially harmless forms of gambling. These games, according to most documented scientific studies, cause only a minimum of negative impacts on society compared to so-called hard forms of gambling, such as technical games, especially slot machines or casinos. This would be a multi-stage handicap to the lower forms of gambling, since the State is financing measures from their funds to remedy the negative effects of hard gambling, which are expenditure on addiction treatment, combating related crime, social support for dependent players, costs resulting from the breakdown of gambling family relationships and so on. From hard forms of gambling, therefore, there is disproportionately less resources in the state budget than would correspond to a share in their social costs. The government slogan on the optimal level of taxation of gambling as a whole is morally and economically unjustified and populist. The current law does not regulate the operation of lotteries and similar games on the Internet, which is subject to legitimate criticism by the European Commission as well. Internet gambling operators offer their services to players in our territory illegally and, of course, do not admit and tax their income at all. The Internet lottery market is growing and expanding unprecedentedly. The state is merely helplessly taking into account the increasingly massive tax evasion and feeding of illegal operators who do not participate in the social costs of their business. The proposed amendment does not address this at all. It remains only a question of whether or not this is an intention. Unspecific tax increases to legal operators are far too evidently in favour of the grey zone, which already has very influential supporters on the top floors of Czech politics. According to estimates, the State is only losing 2 billion each year of its resignation on the taxation of online illegal operators. Crowns. The volume of the illegal Internet market is estimated at up to a quarter of the total market. In some segments the ratio of legal and illegal is even estimated to be 1: 1. In addition, in addition to illegal internet operators, many other unauthorized slot machines, gambling rooms, casinos or betting offices operate on the market. This large share of the illegal market is out of the ordinary rate of unauthorized business in other markets. The proposed amendment, as designed, further deepens and aggravates the unsatisfactory state of affairs when legal operators are exposed to an unfair competitive disadvantage due to the state's inaction, which significantly distorts competition. In particular, the Ministry of Finance should force illegal operators to cease their activities or to legalise them linked to taxation. If the submitted amendment is approved, it will result in undesirable incentives for entrepreneurs. It will not be illegal at all, because taxes will not apply anyway, as there is still no comprehensive framework for the new lottery law, and paradoxically there will be a situation that the government's proposal will help them because it will put their legal competitors' business at a disadvantage. A part of legal operators, due to an increased tax burden, will undoubtedly leave the legal market and leave another part of the market to illegal operators unless part of them goes directly into the more favourable sector of non-taxed business. There are at least 37 non-licensed foreign internet operators working on our market today offering on their website together online exchange rate betting, poker, casino and games in Czech. Legal is only online betting, license has about eight subjects, and online poker where one operator is licensed. Unlicensed foreign companies do not make payments and their huge revenues from activities in the Czech Republic are not subject to corporation tax. Qualified estimates indicate that around 9 to 11 billion are planted on the black market for these companies. CZK, and the Czech Republic is thus losing approximately 2 billion. crowns a year. It is unbelievable that virtually every month this amount increases extremely, which would undoubtedly not be possible without influential persons. The current proposal does not respond to current rapid developments in modern technologies, it does not take sufficient account of the level of risk and dependence of individual games and does not comply with the requirements of European legislation. I would therefore like to ask you to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u31	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. We are continuing the general debate. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I didn't take advantage of the priority rights, I waited for my colleagues to express themselves. Firstly, I would like to respond to some of the speeches from the coalition Members who say how the opposition is blocking it and so on. I would like to remind you that, in the case of a similar bill, as Mr Volný here has put forward, we have had one performance for our club, and today it probably doesn't, so it's just not true. I make two amendments on behalf of our club. They are listed in the system under No. 3104 and 3105. I spoke of both yesterday on the Committee on Budgets and, in principle, the same amendments I tabled in the draft Parliamentary press of Mr Volný, so they are no surprise. One concerns tariffs and one concerns the distribution of gambling levies. I guess I'll start with the other one. It's easier. It is under House document 3105. I mean, I was one of those guys who negotiated at the time and arranged a division of 80 and 20 with the then finance minister for the benefit of municipalities and cities. The main reason for this is that most of the negative phenomena, which are linked mainly to the nonstop operation of gambling rooms, such as the disturbance of night tranquillity, the duty and the need to drive out the city police carry in their budgets the municipality and the city. We also gave them authority and I personally regret that very little use the power to regulate gambling in time, because I think it breeds big problems, and that if gambling is regulated in time, it is better than in place. Now I will overlook our capital, but especially in smaller cities it is very debatable that on A street gambling can and may not be on B street gambling. Very often it is subjective evaluation and rather it fixes the current state, which means who came first, makes money on it. But since I believe that the government deserves the money, I am presenting this proposal in four options. The first preserves the current state of 80: 20 and three other variants are always 5% in favour of the state and thus 5% less in favour of the municipalities. The last option 65: 35 is actually in line with what is contained in the large government bill on gambling, where the government itself proposes 65: 35. As I did today, you all received the opinion of the Executive Director of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, when the Union of Cities and Municipalities asks the Chamber of Deputies to be 65: 35. It's one of those variations. The reasons are quite obvious. [[15.10 hours]] The second amendment concerns rates. Again, we are not too different from the government's ideas, because the government actually differentiates three rates in its grand draft of the new law - lotteries, odds and technical equipment. Some previous speakers have already mentioned that social harm is proven. We propose an increase in all three categories, namely that lotteries of 21 %, exchange rate bets of 22 percent and technical equipment, which are mainly VHP and VLT, of 30 percent. In calculating possible budgetary impacts, we were based on the Ministry of Finance's figures and figures, which are also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to this press. Our proposal envisages an additional return on this tax of less than 1.4 billion, or this does not differ from the government's estimate, when the lower limit of government estimates is 1.8 billion. Crowns. So one thing is about rates, and the other thing is about distribution. I will submit both proposals to the rapporteur, and then in a detailed debate, I will only formally sign up to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u33	I thank Mr Stanjur. And before I conclude the debate, because I have no application, I will state an apology from the meeting - from 16 o'clock, Mr Robin Böhnisch. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in final words after the general debate. Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur? This is not the case either. There has been no proposal for repayment, and we will not vote until after the debate in detail on the proposal to shorten the deadline. We will therefore discuss the detailed debate that I am opening, and Mr Karel Fiedler will be the first to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u34	Thank you for the floor. Here in this detailed debate, I would like, in particular, to sign up for my amendment, which is being held in the House system under number 1302. And I'm just going to briefly justify the things that it contains, because my speech was quite detailed. The amendment is based on the approved government concept of selective access to individual types of lotteries and other similar games. Law No 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, now clearly differentiates between individual types of lotteries, but it also approaches them in principle uniformly from the point of view of contributions. My amendment differentiates these rates, where it seeks to take as far as possible into account their social hazards. The amendment focuses on the most pressing problem, which is the main body of the amendment, which affects the operation of illegal gaming facilities. This is what the Government House's press does not solve at all, which we allow ourselves to criticise, but at the same time we propose a solution that we offer so that the Chamber of Deputies can accept, and thus we are essentially offering the possibility of increasing the revenue of the state budget, because if this operation of illegal equipment is affected, we assume logically that this will also be reflected in increased tax collection from those operators of this gambling who are legally registered, operating it under the registration of the state and paying taxes. The amendment also increases the upper limit of the fine, which can be imposed for the operation of a lottery or other similar game without appropriate permission, from the existing CZK 10 million to the proposed CZK 20 million. The proposed rates for individual sub-bases of lottery levies and similar games are higher than those of the current lottery levy. The rate of 22 per cent is proposed for other types of lotteries, where outlook rates according to government concept should mostly be 23 per cent. The reason for the lower rate is based on the fact that it is a lottery game with a lower harmful effect on both the betting and society, while avoiding a high jump increase. Yesterday, it was also said in the Committee on Budgets that these operators are at a great disadvantage against those who are engaged illegally. Another increase in rates basically places them in a very problematic environment. The complete justification for this amendment is for 1302, so I will no longer delay. And then, please, in the third reading, to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u35	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Now, Mr Václav Votava, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I, too, would like to sign up for my amendment, which is introduced in the House system as House Document No 3101. I will make a very brief statement. It is proposed to change the share of the budget allocation of payments from slot machines and other technical equipment for the benefit of municipalities, from 60 to 40 % to 63 to 37 percent. This is therefore 3 % compared to the original government proposal in favour of municipalities. I think that every crown for the municipalities is certainly desirable in this case. It is basically about CZK 150 million on the part of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u37	I thank Mr Václav Votav. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u38	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is conducted in the system under number 3103. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Now also Mr Karel Fiedler and then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who announced his application for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since I handed the amendment over to the rapporteur, where my number was marked, I said it wrong in my head. So for legislation, I am correcting: the number of the amendment I am applying to is 3102. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u41	Thank you. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u42	So we have a nice number line: 3102, 3103. I am formally applying to two amendments. I'm going to continue the number line under 3104 and 3105.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u43	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. Even in a detailed debate, there was no proposal to return the law to the guarantee committee. There was a proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to 7 days, and there was no other proposal that we could put to the vote. But I will, of course, give the final word to the Minister if he is interested. It's not like that. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that five amendments have been tabled: Mr Václav Votava 3101, Mrs Věra Kovářová 3103, Mr Karel Fiedler 3102, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and ODS 3104 and Mr 3105. I am just pointing out one thing, although I do not have a problem with both Mr Fiedler's amendment and Mrs Věra Kovářová's amendment, but I am concerned that these amendments are subject to notification and that this will probably be a bit of a problem for the press to accept it. However, I believe that, and it's not stupid things, it's sensible things, some of which are also contained in the new big law, so I think it's gonna be a good place to talk about a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-001-003.u45	Thank you to the rapporteur. I sang because I asked colleagues and colleagues if they were discussing something else to leave for the lobby. We have one vote before the end of the second reading, namely a vote to reduce the deadline between second and third reading to 7 days. I'm going to unsubscribe you all and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. [[15.20 hours]] Once the number of applicants has settled, I will vote in voting number 8 which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the deadline to 7 days between second and third readings. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 8 of the present 108 for 108, against no one. The motion was accepted. The deadline between second and third readings was reduced to 7 days. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. We'll continue with point number
