ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 270/ - Second Reading Under the authority of the Government, the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček will present this bill. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Minister, please, you have the floor. [[The President and the Minister are waiting for the O.R. to calm down. No results.]] I ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace. This is a very serious and monitored House press, so please pay attention to the Minister's argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly remind you of the content of the proposed amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health and the related legislation. The proposal represents a comprehensive revision of the law in relation to changes in the legal order in recent years as well as certain requirements of application practice. One of the main objectives of the amendment is to bring the Act on the Protection of Public Health into line with the Administrative Code and other legislation, in particular the Act on Chemicals and Chemical Mixtures, the Trade and Education Act, the Act on Social Services and the Act on Health Services. In particular, this objective is linked to the relatively large extent of the amendment. Furthermore, the proposal defines the facts of administrative offences -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u3	I apologize, Minister, but my words did not fall on fertile soil and the noise in the House is still high. I ask everyone to settle down, not to discuss with the ministers in the Chamber... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u4	Furthermore, the proposal defines the facts of administrative offences in the area of public health protection. Another essential objective of the proposal is to reduce the bureaucratic burden on people, particularly in the field of health protection at work. The role of public health protection in the health support section is strengthened and new tasks of the regions in this area are added. However, in any of the proposed areas, it is not the principles of conceptual change, but changes in a technical manner. The proposed law passed the first reading and was then three times on the agenda of the Health Committee meeting. As part of his discussion on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, the issue of regular vaccination and protection against noise and vibrations was discussed. However, the intention of this amendment was not to make any substantial substantive changes in these areas. As far as vaccination arrangements are concerned, only certain provisions are specified here. The definition of regular vaccination shall be inserted, the same rules shall be laid down for all collective establishments caring for pre-school children and the obligation of the establishment entrusted by the courts to care for persons aged up to 15 years shall be added to ensure that they carry out regular vaccinations. [[It's still very busy in the hall.]] The proposed adjustment is to monitor the maintenance of high inoculation, which is a prerequisite for collective immunity. When it is achieved, the circulation of the disease agent in the population can be reduced, or it will be eliminated...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u5	One more time, and I hope for the last time. Quiet in the courtroom, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u6	The purpose of this was not to tighten legal regulation in this area, as is sometimes mistakenly perceived, but vice versa. For example, the amount of certain fines is reduced compared to the current adjustment. In the context of setting the maximum amount of fines, I cannot accept the argument that liquidation fines will be imposed in practice. The rules for determining the amount of the fine contain the bill itself, and their application undoubtedly includes the settled caselaw of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court resulting from the ban on the liquidation of the amount of the fine. The fine shall be proportionate, effective and dissuasive in accordance with this case-law. The same comes from European legislation. I therefore have to reject the claim of liquidation by fines. I also have to refuse to attempt to cancel or relativize the mandatory regular vaccination. The provisions of the law in force were subjected several times to a constitutional test by the Constitutional Court and the proposals to abolish the relevant provisions were rejected by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated that compulsory vaccination against infectious diseases is clearly a measure in a democratic society necessary to protect the safety, health, rights and freedoms of others. As regards the area of noise protection and vibrations, it was not even the intention to change existing concepts, but to make only partial substantive changes. This is, in particular, a rule that, as regards infrastructure and railways, the fulfilment of sanitary limits in the protected outdoor area is also considered to be the fulfilment of sanitary limits in the protected indoor areas. Another change lies in the definition of the protected outdoor space of the buildings. The noise measurement will continue to take place only in front of those parts of the perimeter casing of protected buildings, which are important in terms of noise penetration, i.e. residential rooms, and not corridors or sanitary facilities. [[14.30 hours]] Other changes are legislatively technical, whether they are defining what noise and vibration are not considered, which is the regulation passed from the Government's regulation to the law, or the definition of the scope of the request for a limited permit. The Committee on Health adopted in its motion for a resolution proposing to make a number of adjustments in the amendment tabled, including in the two areas mentioned above. However, these changes do not constitute a fundamental conceptual shift, and I can therefore support them as the petitioner. Mr President, honourable Members. I have also recorded a large number of other revised amendments regarding noise protection, in particular, just before the beginning of this meeting. I must say that I see the need for a thorough discussion of these new proposals in the Health Committee, which is why I will support the petitioner's interruption of this law before the general debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. This is therefore a re-negotiation of the law to re-negotiate with the committee, which we can do, provided that someone proposes it in the debate and at the same time after the general debate. So I am merely informing all those who want to speak in the debate that the Minister has announced this here. I register Mr Krákora, but it is the fourth in the general debate, provided that some of the colleagues who are logged in do not withdraw their application with regard to what the Minister has announced here. However, 21. 10. 2014 at the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Committee on Health. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that, if it is not clear to the Chamber of Deputies before the amendment is effective, which committee is a guarantee committee, the Guarantee Committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. In this case, only the Committee on Health has been ordered by the draft law as a single committee, and it is therefore clear that this committee is a committee of guarantee. Therefore, we do not need to vote on the designation of the guarantee committee. The Economic Committee also discussed this proposal on an initiative. The Committees' resolution was delivered in prints 270/1 and 270/4. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Kasal, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in its resolution No 71 of 16 and 29 January, the Committee on Health discussed both the draft amendment of this law and all amendments to the Government Bill amending Act No 258/2000 Coll. on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 270. After discussing all the amendments, the Health Committee has leaned forward and recommends to the House to give its consent to the Government's draft law amending Act 258/2000 Coll. on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended, and other related acts, House press 270, as amended. During the debate, there was mainly talk of amendments, as the Minister has already said here, which concerned mainly noise and vibration and, of course, vaccination, whether it was a question of the amount of fines or the question of vaccination itself. As the Minister also pointed out, a number of other proposals and information have emerged, and I will support the rapporteur's proposal to interrupt the debate after the general debate and return to the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Foldyna, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues. I have here the resolution of the Economic Committee No 111 of 14 January 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No 258/2000 Coll. on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. Resolution of the Economic Committee of the 15th meeting of 14 January on the Government proposal: The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Committee on Health discuss and approve the amendment tabled by Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, which reads as follows: in Section 30, the sentence shall be added at the end of paragraph 1: "This does not apply to the protected outdoor space, the protected interior spaces of buildings and the protected outdoor spaces of buildings for which, following their authorisation for use under the special legislation, the sanitary limits of noise or vibration caused by the current source of noise or vibration from roads or railway tracks which have been shown to be put into service before the legal authority of the building permit or the granting of consent to carry out the declaration of construction under the special legislation shall be demonstrated." That's where the quote came from. In point 2 of Section 31, the following paragraph is inserted after paragraph 2:'
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u11	Mr rapporteur, I do not think you are obliged to read the whole amendment at this stage. All you have to do is point out that the committee has adopted an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u12	Okay. So it is two amendments. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. That was indeed Mr Foldyna's rapporteur. I'm opening a general debate, I have six applications so far. Mrs Nováková, then Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, when there is an opportunity, I will sign up to an amendment concerning compulsory vaccination of children, and I very much regret that the health committee will still deal with this matter. But since you will not be able to listen to the debate on the health committee, or probably have the opportunity to hear the debate on the health committee, I would like to humbly explain to you what leads us to make our amendment with Mr Farský. First of all, I would like to say that we treat with respect and respect all those involved in the compulsory vaccination of children. I don't want to be here, I'm not a doctor, I'm a Latin high school teacher, the foundation of social sciences, so I don't want to judge a hexavalent vaccine here, I don't want to talk about it, even though the debate is whether it's really necessary for our children to be vaccinated against ten infectious diseases. In addition to the hexavalent vaccine, it is also a vaccination against measles, rubella, mumps and pneumococcal infection. Let us return to this respect and respect for all those involved who inevitably have to participate in this process. We have children who are vaccinated, and their parents who are responsible for them. We have doctors who are trying, and we believe that, fulfilling their professional qualifications and not putting their moral credit on the line, or fulfilling the Hippocratic Hippokratův. We have here us, legislation and executives, which, without our ability to influence us, will then give some decrees, and we have here the pharmaceutical industry, which I do not want to demonize in any way. [[14.40 hours]] There's no way I want to say we're supposed to stand up against the obligation to vaccinate. The invention of vaccines was, without a doubt, a great thrill of human reason, art, and spirit, and surely all efforts were directed to help others. But apart from the individual parents of children, doctors, executives and legislation and pharmacy, we also have two communities, which, in this discussion of compulsory vaccination of children, is somewhat opposed. It is one community that makes up family, parents and children - there are relationships that are determined by law, but there are relationships that nothing can replace, and that is an emotional, very strong emotional relationship. This leads us to the fact that we absolutely cannot accept the treatment of parents in this sense: you do not understand anything, put the child here, we will inoculate him and then we will return him to you inoculated. Another objection that goes against the logic of the matter is: you will not put your unscathed child in children's collectives because you would endanger them. Ladies and gentlemen, who would not use the responsible parent to help science and try to protect the child from infectious diseases? What responsible parent would be indifferent to endangering the child group to which he himself sends the child? That doesn't make any sense. The other community is the state where the parent plays the role of a citizen and where the parent has to follow legal standards. What's in the debate on compulsory child vaccination? First of all, trust in doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, I took the liberty, perhaps it was impertinence from me on the Health Committee to say: You in good faith to ensure perhaps a really good course and brilliant course of vaccination, actually gambling that parents, legal representatives, will not have confidence in doctors. Because they will see that doctors carry out up to a million fines under threat. Another is the danger of excluding children whose parents are not one of those who neglect them. Those parents who think about vaccination and consider, discuss, are mostly very educated and really very responsible parents. And it is the children of these parents that we are going to exclude this amendment from, for example, some leisure activities, accommodation camps and so on. Sanctions in the form of fines threaten parents who decide, even though there is an obligation to have children vaccinated, not to have children vaccinated. Ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly not interrupting this penalty in our amendment. Parents must be held responsible for this. However, we do not agree, as I have already mentioned, with disproportionate penalties against doctors, because doctors actually because of the pressure on them from above, due to certain concerns that if they had reported the adverse effects of vaccines to parents, that they would be immediately checked, many doctors would actually be able to do so, and we know it directly from them, they would simply write a record in the child's documentation. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, we cannot tell with full responsibility how many children are vaccinated with us. We can tell how many children have it included in their medical records. Other people who are facing fines are organizations. There's a little bit of a sense of absurdity. The minister here was talking about liquidation or non-liquidation. Ladies and gentlemen, for example, the Prague East County is now spring break. Children who were together at school last Friday, the same children are going to some sort of holiday event, and under this law the same children should be illustrated and checked for vaccination, and organizations that would take them for a ski course would be threatened with a half-million-dollar fine. The same kids were at school together last week. That doesn't make any sense. We talked about trust, a certain threat of exclusion. And now we come to rights and responsibilities. The State has a duty to do. Our amendment does not want to disturb this obligation, it accepts it. Yes, make sure the vaccination stays mandatory. However, when imposing this obligation, the State must also bear responsibility. This is still the case, although in other countries this is the case, even where vaccination is voluntary, for example in Germany, so the state is responsible for negative, undesirable effects that may be likely - not proven - in connection with vaccination. Our state does not want to bear this responsibility yet. And here I very much believe that this will be discussed at the Health Committee, and I believe that there will be a shift here. Our state did not even accept any obligation to explain in detail, through campaigns, why we have to vaccinate against ten diseases, why we are using those and the vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not underestimate the people who are bound by obligations. And there's absolutely no justification for what he's ordering - the state. A doctor must carry out his duties to the State - yes. But I say again, he is primarily to perform his duties towards his profession. He confirmed his very hard, basically the most demanding studios, the Hippokratův oath or the variant of the Hippocratic oath, and there he says he'll always want to help everyone and never want to harm anyone. However, the doctor also has responsibilities towards parents, children's legal representatives, and all those in a similar position, such as caregivers and so on, foster parents. The doctor really needs to explain to his parents why he should monitor this substance very sensitively, whether there has really been any adverse effects, and act immediately operationally. That is why it is our amendment that brings about the operation. A parent, as I said before, is responsible for his children, he is responsible for the fact that, for example, he resists vaccination obligations, there are no debates about sanctions, but he has to, because he loves his children, to protect them. And he should feel like he's on the same side as the doctor and that they both want the best for the baby. Not that he protects a child from his doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, our amendment does not propose the abolition of compulsory vaccination. We believe that if we can explain enough, if we can renegotiate whether there is an inevitable number of infectious diseases against which we are inoculating the inevitable vaccination calendar, as prescribed in the course of regular vaccination, this discussion, the Minister, has promised it, we believe that perhaps it will happen. However, we are proposing an individual vaccination plan in addition to regular vaccination in the category of compulsory vaccination. Within this individual vaccination plan, i.e. it is within the superior category of compulsory vaccination, there would actually be a prompt interaction between the doctor and the legal representative, there would be a possibility of some relaxation but responsible with the doctor's consent, possible relaxation or movement in the vaccination periods, and, above all, there would be a discussion of the possibility of choosing an alternative vaccine. The next thing we are proposing is taking responsibility for the state for the likely adverse effects associated with vaccination and repealing all sanctions. [[14.50 hours]] And that last thing, that's just a reference. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest vaccination, let's say, the run that our children undergo under compulsory vaccination ends in the fifth to sixth year, then there are about two more such vaccination stages, and we have now basically almost on the table the proposal of the Ministry of Education, which is expected to be compulsory pre-school education in the last year before primary school. So I ask, if there is really no meaningful discussion and, for example, the adoption of our proposal for an individual vaccination plan, then logically we will have a number of children who will have to enter a compulsory preschool year somewhere - a kindergarten or somewhere, and at the same time if they do not have a regular vaccination plan for the whole cycle, they will not actually be accepted there because these children will not be vaccinated. This is another argument why we should really go back to that again. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider. I believe the Health Committee will also wish us a hearing. However, it is in such an atmosphere: we doctors and you non-doctors. I have great respect for doctors, but they have sworn to serve, to stand by those who need their help, and that in no way will they allow even under the threat of sanctions to risk harming anyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mr. Farský. Mr. Kolovratník, who withdraws, will be prepared, so then Mr. Štětina. [[Gesticulation and warnings from several sides that still factual remarks.]] I'm sorry, I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Adamec with technical, Mr Koskuba with technical, Mrs Putnová with technical and Mr Plzák. So four techs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll be very brief. I don't want to judge the obligation of vaccination here, but there are others, but the construction here scared me a little bit, that the state will take responsibility for compulsory vaccination with everything. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to tell you that it's kind of freaked me out, because now I can imagine that the vaccination that's mandatory isn't 100% clear. So I saw some cases of children who were supposedly vaccinated with a triple or whatever it was, or hexavaccine, and the consequences. I don't see it that way. I just don't think this structure goes together. Either it's mandatory, and then it's 100%, and it doesn't have to be assured by the law that the state guarantees it, because it really scares me like a parent, a possible grandparents, that this scares me so that the state takes responsibility for not doing so in advance, and yet it's an obligation imposed by the state. Thank you for your attention, and I'd like you to think about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u17	Mr Koskuba, Mrs Putnová will be prepared with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, government, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I am speaking factually, because as a doctor, I do not want to interfere in this discussion, and I think I understand the feelings of a colleague who has spoken here, with all due respect for her, as a layman. Ladies and gentlemen, a few alerts. First of all, doctors don't take the Hippocratic Hippokratův, and I would ask very much that at least the highest constitutional authorities know this. [[emphatically]] Doctors swear allegiance to their faculty and that they will take care of their teachers. He's still saying that. We have nothing in common with the Hippokratův oath these days. First of all. Secondly, not every doctor understands everything, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I will not comment on vaccination. I am proud that the Czech Republic has introduced, managed and that we have the highest inoculation in the world and it has contributed. That's what experts are for, and I'm not gonna talk to them about it as an intern. Yes, I understand some resistance to sanctions against doctors. On the other hand, my colleague, through Mr President, you have no idea how many other responsibilities the recently ruling right has imposed on us. I'd like to inform you about that. And it ties my hands to my patients. And the last amendment. I wouldn't expect to be held responsible for what happens after the vaccination, because we could still consider that when there is compulsory schooling and something happens to the child on the way to school, it is to be blamed. I'm sorry, this is a professional thing, and I would ask the laymen not to talk too much into it. [[Attention on time.]] I mean, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mrs Putnová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u20	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It is difficult to hear the wishes of a Member who has called on us not to speak into this because, of course, we are also concerned. I think what was said here was an example of why it wasn't possible to hide anywhere in the last few weeks before the vaccination. We were included in a number of e-mails, requests for meetings, of which I also attended several. In fact, the whole generation and part of the parental population are asking for a debate that would be unbiased and would not take their views lightly. I think that's what's been missing here for years and what the lay public is actually asking for. I would also like to intercede for this, and I am therefore pleased that my colleague, Mrs Nováková, has come up with an option that would enable this debate to be further strengthened and supported within the health committee. If we want the public to be satisfied both professional and lay, I think we need to find our way to each other. I also welcome the opportunity to return this amendment to discussion again, because there is room for the debate to be truly erudized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u21	Mr Plzák, Mr Dolejš after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, colleagues, I have about three things. As my colleague Adamec said, I was terrified by the wording that the state would take responsibility for the side effects associated with - and now beware - probably with vaccination. [[with emphasis]] I mean, in every medical dispute, if a doctor is brought to trial, the expert's assessment must prove that if there was any damage to his health, he would not have occurred if there had not been a treatment or before. This place is turning upside down. It just can't be that way in these feuds, probably. I understand why that is. Since no direct - direct - connection to vaccination has yet been demonstrated, that is to say, this is associated with the likely occurrence. [[with emphasis]] And with this, we'd put the state on incredible lawsuits. I can't even imagine. So if someone is to take responsibility, I would like to ask what responsibility we will then give to the parents for not having the children vaccinated. Let me give you an example - tetanus. We as surgeons should not be allowed to garden at all, because there is a great risk of tetanus disease. We're inoculated. Kids go through our dirt all the time. So I can't imagine the kids playing in the sandbox wouldn't be vaccinated against tetanus. Plus tetanus is a fatal disease, as we all know. The Hippocratic Hippokratův - that's what my colleague Koskuba said for me. There's no talk of such things. There is talk about not doing abortions, etc., etc. And that's about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mrs Nováková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, Mr Doctor, I know the Hippocratic Hippokratův as a Latin teacher, we simply translate it etc. I also said in my speech that it was like a variant of the Hippocratic Hippokratův. And what I chose from her was that I should always help as a doctor, and I should never do anything to harm anyone who is under the influence of my care. If, then, Mr President, you do this, I have said no more. I think Hippokrates doesn't have to insult you, all of you present doctors in the hall. And if you have anything to do with this, and for that, your line was that, luckily, you don't take the Hippokratův oath anymore and that you swear to the faculty, just like my colleague Putnová said, that's exactly why the debate is really pressing. I respect that you do not take, doctor, Hippocrate's Hippokratův, but please let us at least in the promise that you will always help and never harm. At least that's what I teach pharmaceuticals and medical paramedics in Latin class. Thank you. . [[Applause for Members of the TOP 09]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u25	Mr Koskuba. After that, a factual point by Mrs Soňa Marková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, a second time, though it is not my custom. Through the President: Dear fellow Member, this is proof that it is difficult to instruct a layman from a doctor, because you have not understood what I was talking about at all. With all due respect, you didn't get it at all! What bothers me is that all the laymen are talking about the Hippokratův' oath. That's all I said. We make a real promise to the faculty, and then we're bound by the expertise where we have medical ethics. Unfortunately, we are often restricted by the things brought by this state, and therefore we are becoming more and more officials than doctors. I must warn you. Next thing. Please, you may rightly point out here: lead the discussion with us. With all due respect, who? Parliament? Minister? We often refer to professional companies. It wasn't necessary until now. In a way, this nation accepted its happiness with the vaccination. I feel sorry for the Minister if he has to call on the head of the vaccine society to have a discussion with you. I'm not capable of it! I speak for myself. Even if you come to my office, I'm not capable of it. I'm not able to understand medicine these days. And I'm glad my previous speaker here mentioned the parents' responsibility. There's a debate going on right now about what's going on in Berlin. There's an outbreak of measles. What's going on in the United States. If parents who do not inoculate their children as well as the mother - I respect her, is freedom - want to give birth at home, but suffer the consequences of failing her decision, and we will not pay for it from public health insurance and state money, then have freedom. [[Attention on time.]] Well, I don't really advise you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mrs. Soňa Marková. And the last, with a point of fact, is Mr Nykl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me only three comments. First of all, the amendment to the law we're discussing today doesn't address the obligation of vaccination. This discussion appeared during the discussion of this press on the committee. The second thing is that the Health Committee has made it clear that it wants to be the platform on which this debate should be held, which is now being heard here, and where both experts and the general public should be present. And third, that the health committee and I, in fact, have already begun to carry out this task, because on 3 March, a seminar was held here in the State Acts dealing with this issue. Another round table on this issue will be held on 14 April. So the platform for meeting and discussion here is created and everyone who is interested in this issue and wants to change something about it, so they have the opportunity to comment on it. But this novel is about a whole lot of other things, and I think that's what we should be dealing with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Nykl. After that, Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u30	Good afternoon. I'd follow up on Dr. Koskuba. Indeed, basically, although we are some doctors here, apart from Dr. Kasal, Dr. Krákora, children's doctors, we are not vaccination experts. And we are doctors, we have a test from childhood medicine, from the issue, and yet we are to have some humility within us and not to speak into this issue, to respect the authorities in the Czech Republic, which are the chair of the vaccination society, people engaged in immunization, allergology. These people have a certain opinion, we respect that and we should basically have in ourselves, as I say, especially the laymen, a kind of self-esteem and humility, and don't discuss topics here into too many professional parts. For example, it is not right to appeal to Germany either, because in Germany, when a survey has now been done in connection with measles epidemics, up to 76 percent of the public would want basically compulsory vaccination. So that's where the opinion comes from. Basically, many countries say that the Czech Republic can be proud of its developed compulsory vaccination system. So let's be happy for him. And as I say, let's have some self-esteem, some humility, let's not all express ourselves about everything. When Vrbětice was here, there were over 60 expert comments. I don't think it's right either. I'm sure there aren't 60 ammunition experts here. And then it leads to a debate that doesn't have a very good ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr. Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. I, as my previous speaker said, may be a bit of an expert, because I've been running pediatric practice for 22 years. And I've also basically taken this task upon myself with the fact that I understand something after all. From the point of view of the things that have been said here, just a few comments. I really need to tell you that from the point of view of how they're responsible or not their parents are responsible, sometimes they're really incredible messes and incredible states that we're experiencing in the hospital. So it's just to the edge. Second thing, alternative vaccination. You, my colleague, are already breaking into this, through the President. This is already possible and there is only one obligation that the substance must be registered in the Czech Republic. So that's what we can do at this point. As regards the individual vaccination plan. I'm sure we need to discuss this. On the other hand, the individual vaccination plan cannot be adopted within 14 days. It's a long-term thing to work on. And as Mr Běhounek has already suggested on the Health Committee, we have all supported this, a working group will be set up in which everyone, experts, but also representatives of those who complain about certain matters. And create a sensible thing to support the vaccinations we have here. Because we're in a situation with us right now - what was before? Whether an egg or a hen. Thanks to effective vaccination, we don't have a lot of diseases here, and I, as a pediatrician, have practically seen some diseases as diphtheria and others at all. And on the contrary, the vaccines that were introduced, so I clearly saw their effect. Whether it's hepatitis B or hemophiliac. [[Attention on time.]] I don't want to go into detail, but really vaccination is effective and there's no need to question it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. I don't see any more. So let's get back to the debate. Mr Farský and Mr kolovratník withdraws. So Mr. Mr. Štětina will be prepared. Ambassador, I've got you here twice. The other application? [[Member Farsky says he's in the middle of a detailed debate.]] It's detailed, yes, so thank you and we'll fix it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add briefly as a co-president of the amendment that has been debated here, in just a few reflections. My colleague Nováková and I do not propose the abolition of mandatory vaccinations. This is important to mention, because even the comments I have heard here sound as if we were moving in this direction. It's not like that. The second thing is responsibility. In the form in which it is proposed, it is nothing new. It is the responsibility it carries, for example. the German State for the negative effects of vaccination but in the country where vaccination is voluntary. To justify the state's obligation and at the same time not willing to bear responsibility for the negative consequences, the argument is quite weakened. And there's one more thing that's important to mention. The one that is not yet in the bill, but the debate is also coming up because of how the Constitutional Court has decided in the past days and weeks, when the dissenting position of the constitutional judge Mrs Kateřina Šimáčková was quite clearly justified and stipulated that, as the vaccination plan is today, as the vaccines are determined today, as the exact brand is determined, which is being paid - because the alternative can be used, but you must pay it yourself - so the design, when this is laid down by the decree, is, in her opinion - and it is the opinion of the Constitutional Judge - unconstitutional. That means we're gonna have to do the vaccination. And if the discussion is linked from the outset in a way that doctors sitting in the Chamber of Deputies say that all those who do not have a prior MUDr. are laymen and must not comment on it because they do not understand it, we will never reach any conclusion. This approach is exactly the one that led to the fact that today there are opponents of vaccinations. Because instead of communicating with them, they are sanctioned and ostracized. Unfortunately, as long as this method of communication doesn't turn into a partner, the problem will only be bigger and bigger. Our amendment, which we tabled with my colleague Nováková, had this moat that was dug here, at least in some way - and it still has, it is his job - to eliminate or at least no longer deepen. Unfortunately, the approach we see here is the opposite. I would like to comment on the amendment I tabled. It's 1876 in the system, and it doesn't involve vaccination. It concerns Article 9 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, where it is established that at present, if a child is entering a recovery event, he must have so-called. a declaration of infectivity. In this statement, the parent signs - and I will now ask your attention if you would sign this, if you really can do so - that the child did not come into contact with a person with an infectious disease or a suspected disease 14 days before leaving for school in nature or at a recovery event. This is the diction of the law, this is the diction of the infectivity that each parent signs. He's gonna sign it because otherwise they wouldn't take the baby to the event. But I'm sure he doesn't sign it as something he can say and he's definitely right. He doesn't know where the baby's been going for the last 14 days, where the school met who was infected. So we're actually forcing parents here to sign unnecessary paper while still lying. For this reason, I propose that this wording be deleted. And I think that if it is maintained that the parent signs that the child does not show signs of acute illness and is not ordered by quarantine measures, that the parent will not be forced to lie at the time while the substance of the proposal is being fulfilled. This is the first part of the amendment. In the second, I will describe how the situation is going today. Our kids leave for camp every year for about 180,000. Each child, if he wishes to attend such a recovery event or camp, must have a certificate from the attending physician that he is fit to attend such an event. This means 180 thousand times a doctor must be visited, who is naturally burdened by it, which often only fills in formal - in cases where the child is healthy - a sheet that then serves as an attachment to the health inspection station. My proposal is that where the organizers of these events - and here I also speak for the organizers of these events - so that where there is long-term cooperation with parents and parents, they know how they are responsible for their children so that they are not forced to visit doctors, spend money on this opinion and spend half a day of leave to accompany the child to the doctor. This is a proposal that will save the work of doctors who will thus not have to administer unnecessarily and will not be more officials than doctors, and which will also simplify our legal order. And that's a proposal I'd like you to draw your attention to, because it's anti-burocratic, it's sparing and yet completely logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, too. And now I beg you, Mr Vyzula, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u36	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. It will not give me a short response, after all, to Mr Farský's speech and Mrs Nováková's speech. Here it looks like doctors are opposed to the rest of the world, putting laymen in a position you don't understand that we're not discussing. But let's see what happened! I personally - and many of my colleagues - had dozens of individual interviews with our parents. Several seminars were held on vaccination, directly in the Chamber of Deputies. We want to discuss and we really want to explain to the lay public how it is with vaccination. Because not only did we swear, but basically every doctor has it in him: not to hurt - primam non nocere. We have that in us, please. And we don't want to hurt anyone. That is why we are now trying to make this discussion sound like a constructive discussion in general. But here, lately, for the last few days and weeks, there's been a hysteria that's been directed against vaccination. And then the discussion is hard. I am in favour of constructive discussion. But if we deal with hysteria, it could be here forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping the time limit and please contact Mr. Štětina's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u38	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. On the one hand, it's very simple, and on the other hand, it's very complicated. But I have one advantage. That every time a colleague of Koskuba talks to me, I always agree with him. I don't know why, he's from the coalition, I'm from the opposition. There were so many words. Some even touched me. The address - doctors. I'm not gonna call you here, either -- professors, graduate engineers, etc., as the song sings. Don't say that, please. We're on completely different soil here. And without irony. I'll be without irony, too. I promised my coalition colleagues I wouldn't talk for more than three minutes, so I'll keep that promise. If I make a promise, I make it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a political law ahead of us that is neither right nor left. It is a law that may apply five, maybe ten years, it will have to be partially changed. But we need that law. He's been set up for at least a year, and he's still being postponed, because there are various activities here - fighters for domestic births, anti-noise fighters, and now for vaccination. I have listened very carefully to the speech of the Minister, the rapporteur, and I must say that I have no objection to him. I'll sign everything they said. Not as a politician, but as a doctor who may have done 51 years of his profession responsibly so that no one has to lecture me on how to deal with patients. And I put those patients to sleep a few tens of thousands, and I had to talk to everyone. So I also understand the Minister, although we may not like each other that much at present. But I understand that he certainly didn't mean that he would be responsible for all the complications. That's not how I understood it. But naturally, every medical procedure, every treatment, the administration of the substance, there are possible complications. And if we compare the complications with the vaccinations and compare the contraindications and some possible complications, but proven, not likely, it doesn't have a place here at all, so that's really the minimum. [[15.20 hours]] So in conclusion, I don't know if I've fulfilled three minutes, that I can't agree with that on the one hand, that we're in favour of mandatory vaccinations, but that we should have different alternatives. That's not how it works, folks. Either the vaccination will be mandatory, and thank God we have it, or we'll have anarchy like we do in a number of other fields, and then it'll turn out the way it did elsewhere. So our club's opinion is that - even if we have a free vote: we are in favour of compulsory vaccination and we are in favour of supporting this law. And if I could only have 20 more seconds. I would like one more word on the amendment on noise. That's the thing I've been discussing, and I've been trying to reconcile two camps for four years. I didn't succeed, so I'm not going to deal with the noise at all, because it's another activist thing that I don't like and that doesn't benefit this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u39	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr. Josef Novotný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because, firstly, I have been asked to do so, secondly, I have information that this hearing will be suspended and it will return to committee. I tabled an amendment under number 2037 to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. The objectives of this amendment are similar to those raised before me by Mr Farský, i.e. solve, I would say technically allow, simplify the whole system so that the child can go to school in nature or any other place in nature. My amendment rationalises legal obligations so that they are realistic and effective. It respects and strengthens the responsibilities and rights of parents, legal representatives, reduces administrative complexity and compliance with legal requirements and takes into account the long-term positive trend in the hygiene situation of recovery actions, takes into account the diversity of their organisers, which does not endanger unjustified high sanctions. The reasoning is then quite extensive, I would leave that to the committee responsible. So I would just ask that this amendment be properly discussed in committee, and I believe that it will contribute to simplifying the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u41	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we could save ourselves all the discussions and emotions that one of the proposals that appeared in this bill, namely an increase in the penalty for doctors from two million to three million, because that is basically the only thing that has affected this area of vaccination. The vaccination in our country has brought very good results, the eradication of a lot of diseases. What is important: There is currently increasing, unfortunately, vaccine rejections. If you're talking to children's doctors, they'll tell you that there's a growing number of parents who want to push children's vaccinations to the nearest degree or not to inoculate them at all. This is, of course, a bad way to go, but some of the considerations that come from people you receive daily on emails or in personal meetings are, of course, worth considering. I am glad that the Health Committee has also recommended a technical discussion to the Ministry to address the adverse effects of vaccination in particular, i.e. reporting of adverse reactions, their proper attachment and proper analysis, possibly with the reporting system, if it does not burden the doctor too much, etc. Personally, I think that there is also a matter on the debate that concerns the vaccination decree itself, the setting of vaccination calendars, or the screening of specific immunity disorders, because even this method can significantly increase people's confidence in vaccination. So it's from my point of view. I am not proposing an amendment, but I think that there is a need for professional discussion and that there is a need to increase the trust of people in our Republic in vaccination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Věra Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to this law is very extensive, but it does not only address the issue of vaccination, as it might seem to look into our e-mail boxes in recent days and weeks. It also concerns the issue of Prague's Ruzyne airport, but indirectly and secretly, when the main argument is to comply with the new legal order. The adjustment is that the noise protection zone should not be established by the Civil Aviation Authority in an agreement with the Regional Hygiene Station, as is the case so far, but by the Civil Aviation Authority itself. The Regional Hygiene Station will only be the authority concerned, and this will weaken its position. Worse, as a result of this change, the government may be a finished arbiter who decides to establish and form a noise protection zone. We refuse to weaken the position of regional sanitation stations, because it affects a number of inhabitants of the affected municipalities in the Central Bohemia Region and a number of city parts of Prague. As regards the issue of the extension of Ruzyne airport to the government, this is to be said in a straight line and a thorough discussion, not to solve the problem in such a situation. That is why I tabled an amendment under number 2034 and will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u45	I thank you, and before I invite Mr Krákora to the microphone, allow me to read one apology, Mr Ivan Gabal, who apologizes for today's meeting until 16.30. Now, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, I will be very brief. The discussion has shown that the bill presented is very complex especially in certain areas concerning noise and noise measures, as well as sanctions against doctors and vaccination sanctions. Therefore, allow me, in agreement with the Minister and with the Government Coalition, to make a motion to return the bill to the Guarantee Committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. 2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u47	I thank you, I record your proposal, and we will vote on it after the general debate. Now, please, next in line, and that is Mr Jan Farský. I don't see him here, so I'm going to invite Mr. Bendl to the microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I am not a doctor and I cannot judge whether the use of one or another vaccine is beneficial to the child or not. But I am a parent, and so let me look at a person who reads the amendment to the Public Health Act as a person who is and is to be responsible for raising children and who, because he wants to be responsible, takes his own view of how to deal with a child or not. [[15.30 hours]] I think this novel has opened up the deep problems of who is more - whether the state or the citizen, and the interest of the child is involved, whether the family is more than the interest of the state, or which family or child, which is more important whether or not the one that is vaccinated. Many of you here today have outlined the questions about what they will do with those children whose parents refuse - and they will be proven to be because some people see this as a fatal issue of interference with the rights of the child and reject, after the experience that some have with children, negative post-vacation experience, these vaccinations - and now the state, if it wants to order someone to do it, how does it actually do it? What's next? Will children be taken away from their parents and vaccinated by force, or will they be fined at the limit of destroying their existence, or will they separate children who are not vaccinated? Will he say to them: do you not go to kindergarten or go to school, even though basic attendance is mandatory? What duty, then, will be greater? If the child isn't vaccinated and has to go to school, and if I harm the parent for not putting the child in school, or for not giving him a shot? How far can I keep this kid from going? Won't he be allowed to go to the theatre? Won't he be allowed to take the bus? Or where are we going with this proposal? I think we're getting to Absurdistán, which doesn't suit this country at all. If you look to some countries west of us, such as Germany - today we had a debate with colleagues on this topic, what will be done by those people who simply refuse to have their children vaccinated. Well, they're gonna move to a Tramport like Germany. The Federal Republic of Germany does not require such a thing and no one can refer to it as a banana republic. I think we've reached a stage that shows that we're not civilized to say that there's a parent's responsibility here, and they should be responsible for the future of their children. I'm more of a non-precipitator of mandatory vaccinations, however I raised more children than I had ever fathered. But I think the reasonable of you Members, if they are interested, should hear the arguments for and against. I agree with the Minister of Health's proposal and will encourage him to return to second reading with the need to consider one more point, and that is the responsibility of the state. If the State commands someone, it must be responsible for its consequences. If I order a child to be vaccinated in spite of my parents' opposition and then whatever happens, then it should simply be held accountable - at least. Not just the moral one. I think we can agree on her, she's just there, too, and she can't be ruled out. Or if one of the doctors is here to say that it's absolutely all right and it's all risk-free, I'd quite like to hear it, but I don't think there's anything like that going on here, because there's no risk-free vaccination. He's not completely risk-free! It's just risky somewhere, and there's no way we're gonna, I'm gonna say, want absurd things from our country's citizens like this. The state simply has to take some risks. I would argue too much that vaccination is not mandatory, because it will divide the children into vaccinated and not vaccinated, and at some stage the state will have to say: Here it doesn't matter, or here it is already bothering. The theater won't matter, but kindergarten won't mind. Maybe we can stop the kids from going to kindergarten. Those are completely absurd questions that are not civilized to find answers at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. And now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I promise not to speak too long, because, as has been said, I think that a discussion still in some areas will be appropriate for the committee, but I feel obliged to comment on some of the things that have been said here. In some of the contributions, what has been said here raises a philosophical question as to whether the state can force anyone to do anything, if it can order compulsory vaccinations. Because there was no question that compulsory vaccination was one of the greatest benefits of modern medicine at all and saved perhaps more lives than a lot of expensive and expensive medical techniques. Then we could ask if the state has a duty to order compulsory seat belts, whether the state has a duty to order compliance with traffic regulations, whether the state has the right to determine the obligation to train children, compulsory school attendance, because these are all the obligations that we bring here. We have a compulsory vaccination system that saves the health and lives of thousands of people. When words came out that we didn't want to have a discussion - I had a demonstration of about 250 alternative parents who wanted to have a discussion before the Ministry of Health yesterday. When I got out in front of them and I said I had a different opinion that I thought vaccinations here saved thousands of lives from the past, they booed me. So roughly my offer to hold a debate has been accepted. But I believe that it is not everyone that we are really going to discuss some of them, and what has been said here has also been said in the Health Committee, we are ready to do so. I'd like to say some of the technical things that have been said here. I have said this to the Health Committee - we have supported an amendment that significantly reduces fines, and we are ready to have another debate on the level of fines proportional. I think that some amount of sanctions must remain because by order of duty without sanctions, the law becomes toothless. In addition, I will remind you, there have been two decisions by the Constitutional Court on matters related to this, whether the State can order compulsory vaccination and whether it can require vaccination for admission to pre-school facilities, and the Constitutional Court, which I see as the highest arbiter and defender of individuals in this country, said that it was okay. Once again, we are ready for discussion, but I would like to call on us not to liquidate one of the most successful public health protection systems we have here in the debate on shoreless freedoms. Of course, there will be a group of those alternative people who have been taught the Internet feel that everything will be set up completely individually, but that is not possible. On the other hand, on the other hand, what was said here and what was said in the Constitutional Court's decision that we want to discuss some form of compensation for possible adverse effects, because vaccination simply has a certain percentage of the adverse effects. Each treatment has side effects. If we wanted to say we didn't want to expose people here, we couldn't treat anyone. But I would like the discussion to be conducted within that system and to maintain the basic system of compulsory vaccination, because it is a system that many countries envy us. And I don't think, let's not knock out a system that works. Let's improve it, let's discuss it, but let's not look for ways where in 20 years some will say: what have we done to damage the system that was here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Kasal, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Some of the things the Minister has taken from me now. I would only respond to Mr Bendl, otherwise we will keep the debate on the committee, through Madam President. As it was said here, basically, you don't have medicine anywhere that you don't have a risk. Even in the children's wards, there's a risk where we're throwing some events for the kids and there's a hell of a place to go, so one 11-year-old kid almost jumped out the window because he was scared. And we did it in good faith. So basically, we couldn't operate, we couldn't give any medicine, because every drug has some side effect. And from this point of view, it's as if the vaccination is taken out of context. It is, of course, a difficult matter, but we have promised, we will discuss it, and believe me, I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. There is still an application for a general debate. Mrs. Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, one wonders if he can even speak in the Chamber of Deputies and hold a debate if he is not identified as the right expert. But if I'm going to follow up on what the minister said in the last word, I might have stopped at two things. The first is about how we are discussing this, the second is the Constitutional Court's own proceedings. How we're discussing. I understand that the act of parents that you call alternative parents when they come in front of the ministry, that there really is no substantive discussion that can be conducted on that street. We all know that. They're gonna come in there and say some of their protests. They're à priori against the way you propose, and they come to tell you the most visible form. There's some effort to come up with some consensus, some compromise on that street, it's not possible. And where possible, it's right here in the Chamber of Deputies. Because those parents, whatever we call them alternative, non-alternative, whatever, they just have their elected representatives here in the Chamber of Deputies. And those parents are turning to us, and they're not just the ones you call alternative. Today, we held a debate on the law and how to deal with it, and I dare not say to myself, but I would say that the majority, two thirds of the members of our parliamentary club, were convinced that the law had to be changed, that it was good that they would return to second reading, that it would still be possible to discuss it. Because the way it's designed, we just don't think it's okay. I would like to go back to the other one, what I would recommend to our expert committee to discuss when you discuss it. In addition to the decision of the Constitutional Court, there is also a different position formulated by Judge Kateřina Šimáčková on this statement of the Constitutional Court. I don't know, I can't read it here, 'cause I'm sure you'd think I'm overextending the debate, it's about 5 or 6 pages. Whether you are alternative parents or non-alternative parents, whether you are experts or laypersons, whether you are on the health committee or not, I think you should be particularly interested in this judge's statement because she is trying to understand the substance of the legal act, which is to determine the child vaccination obligation. In particular, the fact that this is an obligation imposed by the decree, i.e. an obligation entrusted to an executive, not to a legislature. It sets an example here as a comparison of when spa care is involved, when the Constitutional Court ruled in the case of spa care for its possibility of two or three weeks of graduating, so decided that this must be imposed by law. So, ladies and gentlemen, we, as legislators and legislators, must fulfil the will of the Constitutional Court and decide on a spa treatment by law, but on compulsory vaccination of children, its timing and its scope will be decided only by the Minister of Health's decree. It seems to me that if we are not interested in professional aspects, and you say that we laymen have nothing to say, even if we feel like parents, responsible parents, and we are afraid that our children will not be sick either because they receive vaccinations or that they do not pass them, so if we are to deal with something, this legal aspect certainly is. The doctor. Šimáčková reports that Austria, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Great Britain and Canada are countries where there is no legal vaccination obligation and - and I quote from it - sufficient population vaccination is provided on the one hand by high-quality doctors, capable of convincing parents in sufficient numbers of the need to vaccinate children, and, on the other hand, by responsible parents who know how to use freedom and who are responsible for the health of their children and other children. Like I said, her position is about five or six pages. I beg you all to meet him, because in the next discussion, he should be a very important guide for us. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-001-001.u55	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I'm gonna call all my colleagues from the lobby, and I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. We shall now proceed to the vote on the application for the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. 2. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? The vote is over. It is a vote with order number 13, to which 144 are registered. For 113, versus 2. I note that the proposal has been adopted, and the proposal for this law will be renegotiated by the guarantee committee. We will now proceed to discuss the next item on today's agenda. That's what it is.
