ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-021-076.u1	76. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part (a House press 370/ - first reading) Gradually, Minister Zaorálek, Minister Mládek, should speak to him. Mr. Foreign Minister Zaorálek is ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-021-076.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So, as you said, I submit to the House for ratification the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the Republic of Moldova. It is at first reading that we should start discussing this agreement. And she is certainly a relatively important historical step not only from the perspective of Moldova, but also from the point of view of the European Union. I will remind you that the Association Agreement is actually the result of a process and a logical conclusion of the European Union's efforts in relation to the Eastern Partnership countries. It's something that Czech diplomacy was also involved in. But first of all, I think that the first job had to be done by Moldova itself, and it is the result of the reform effort and the decision of Moldova to take steps on the path of integration into the European Union. We have always supported Moldova's efforts, i.e. both visibly and professionally, and have actively helped Moldova to engage in the process of approximation. So I'd consider it a little bit of our success. At the same time as the Association Agreement, there is also a part concerning the creation of a free trade zone. This includes provisions that expect all non-tariff barriers to trade to be removed, the business environment in Moldova will be cultivated and this could also contribute to economic growth in Moldova in its consequences. As far as the European Commission is concerned, in negotiations on the creation of a comprehensive deep free trade zone, it has achieved the objectives it has set itself, namely the elimination of import duties essentially on all trade and, at the same time, the creation of a binding framework which prohibits the adoption of autonomous measures to restrict trade. The tighter integration of Moldova, economic integration into the European Union, should be a stimulating factor in the country's economic growth. As a result of the DCFTA application, Moldovan exports to the European Union are expected to increase by 16 per cent and imports from the European Union to Moldova by 8 per cent. As far as Czech-Moldova relations are concerned, I think it is obvious that these changes should also have a positive impact on the business environment and on the possibilities of our companies to make their way to Moldova or to invade Moldova. The same applies to investments in Moldova. Following the signing of the Association Agreement on 27 June 2014 The Republic of Moldova has already ratified this document quite quickly. At this moment, 12 countries have ratified this agreement from the Member States of the European Union, and the European Parliament also ratified it last November. So I would say that the Czech Republic should also take up this task.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-021-076.u3	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I don't see Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade, so we'll need a proposal from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Robin Böhnisch to present a report on this government proposal. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-021-076.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will try to supplement the Minister in some passages of his opening appearance. After all, it is not a simple and brief contract. It is a very comprehensive agreement that has a number of annexes. The document has a total of seven heads, 465 articles and then a whole series of annexes and protocols. In the Czech version it is embodied in 623 pages plus the attachment. This means that it is nothing simple and the foreign committee will deal with it comprehensively. The negotiations on the Association Agreement between the European Union and Moldova started in January 2010 and to some extent culminated in the signing of the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius in November 2013. The objective of the Agreement is to speed up the deepening of political and economic relations between Moldova and the European Union, including the creation of a deepened and comprehensive free trade zone. This is a concrete way of using the dynamics of relations between the European Union and Moldova with a focus on promoting fundamental reforms, economic recovery and growth, governance and sectoral cooperation. The main component of the sectoral cooperation chapters is a broad approximation programme, which is broken down in the Annexes to the Agreement. The specific timetable for implementing the selected parts of European Union law into Moldova's conditions will be central to the ongoing cooperation and will form the core of Moldova's domestic reforms and the modernisation programme. The advantage of Moldova, of course, is the common border and language with the already existing member of the European Union, i.e. Romania. The deal is so-called a mixed treaty, which means that some parts of it fall within the competence of the Member States and some parts fall within the competence of the European Union. The agreement is in the general interest of the European Union and in the interests of the Czech Republic. The application of the Agreement can bring positive impacts on the business environment, promote the development of bilateral relations, including economic relations, and contribute to the overall stabilisation of the South-East European region. The direct impact of the implementation of the agreement on the state budget of the Czech Republic is not expected. As I said, perhaps the key debate will take place in the foreign committee, and I therefore recommend releasing this House's press right into second reading and ordering it to the foreign committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-021-076.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'm asking if anyone's applying because I don't have a written application. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, the rapporteur said the same thing. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So we will proceed to the 75-order vote that I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment of the Committee abroad. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 75. Of the 150 present for 141, against no one, the proposal was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee, and the deadline for discussion is by law. Thank you to the Foreign Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and end with item 76. [[13.30 hours]] We will continue with the point
