ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u1	120. Czech National Bank's report on inflation - January 2015 (The Monetary Development Report for the second half of 2014) /German press 405/ The report is submitted by the Governor, so please the House's apparatus to ensure the presence of the Governor... He's already entered the courtroom. [[The governor came and sat down.]] I welcome Mr. Miroslav Singer, Governor of the Czech National Bank. According to Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, the Czech National Bank is obliged to report to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year on monetary developments. The governor has now sat down, but I ask him to stand up again and take the floor at the speaker's desk and give us the report. Please, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, gentlemen, ministers, I will allow myself again to briefly evaluate the progress of the Czech economy according to the inflation report number one from 2015 at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, and then to say what we are waiting for from next year. In particular, the Czech economy grew very healthyly last year at more than 2% for most of the year. Even the slowdown from the end of the year is rather due to the decline in stocks, which is not so dramatic a phenomenon that only shows that it is being sold at the same time. This is also evidenced by the growth of gross added value, as well as the development of industrial production, sales in retail trade, construction production and trust of companies and households in the Czech economy. All of this was then reflected in very good results in the labour market. The general unemployment rate fell below 6 percent, the unemployment rate below 7 percent in February, which is two figures. The number of job vacancies is the highest in about six years. The wage dynamics in the business sector slightly accelerated just below 2 percent, in non-business even just below 4 percent. The average inflation rate was very low, reaching 0.4 percent. Even this year, I will mention, remains only very slightly above zero, which is deep below the tolerance zone of the Czech National Bank. However, this is primarily due to not very good developments in the euro area, which is still projected towards us and to us favourable developments on oil prices. As regards the forecast, the forecast is based on the assumption of stability of market rates on the so-called technical zero and use of the exchange rate as a monetary policy instrument by the end of 2016, i.e. on the whole horizon. The subsequent return to the standard regime will not mean strengthening the course to the level before entering the regime, because in the meantime, prices and wages will seep into nominal variables. The current forecast expects headline inflation and monetary policy to move around zero this year, perhaps even to slightly negative values in the second half of the year, but then it should swing quite quickly and move to a tolerance target of 2%. This means that by next year, average inflation should be at 1.8 percent. As far as economic growth is concerned, we expect very favourable values there - by 2.6 percent this year, by 3 percent next year. In the labour market, growth in the economy will be reflected by further increases in employment, a decline in unemployment rates, and of course all of this will also be pushed towards wage growth in the business sector. As I said before, the fall in oil prices, which is one of those components of the deviation from the target, we perceive it as a positive phenomenon, we exempt it, and if it does not see its effects or the effects of any other adverse phenomena in secondary counter-inquiry pressures in the Czech economy, we can basically ignore it. In the medium term, three key things will be: the effectiveness of the European Central Bank's measures in combating deflation - you know that the European Central Bank has started to release monetary policy quite significantly - market developments in the koruna exchange rate and wage developments in the domestic economy. Given that two of these factors are still developing in the anti-inflationary direction, we noted that the risks to the forecast were anti-inflationary. At the same time, of course, we stated that we were prepared to adjust monetary policy if the risks were too significant. However, I must say that at this point the deviations from expected developments are not dramatic, except for oil prices, which, as I have already said, are a positive phenomenon for us. I am, of course, ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u3	Thank you, Mr. Governor. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as Parliamentary Press 405/1. I ask Mr Adolf Beznoska, who is the Committee's rapporteur, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I will follow the words of the Governor and briefly summarize the Czech National Bank's report on inflation. I'll do a short management summary. The Czech National Bank's report on inflation discusses - it is the same as all previous reports, structured as since 1998 - compliance with the CNB's main task, namely the inflation target. A comprehensive macroeconomic analysis of the Czech Republic is carried out in the report on how the inflation target is met. The report also envisages some projections for future developments. Compared to previous reports, the topic of the Czech National Bank's intervention of November 2013 is somewhat obscured because foreign exchange interventions were not used as a monetary policy instrument in 2014 or early 2015. However, the Czech National Bank continues to undertake to respect the exchange rate of the koruna against the euro at the border of approximately CZK 27 per euro and, if necessary, to carry out these interventions until at least half of 2016. The subsequent return to the standard monetary policy regime will not mean strengthening the exchange rate to the level prior to the start of the intervention of the Czech National Bank. As a result of the recovery of external demand, low oil prices, the relaxation of domestic monetary conditions and expansionary fiscal policy, the gross domestic product is expected to rise by around 2.6 percent this year, and the growth could accelerate up to 3% next year. Thus, compared to the previous reports, the CNB report is significantly more optimistic this year. Both headline and monetary policy inflation will be around zero to slightly negative in 2015. Otherwise, I'll remind you that last year overall, it was about 0.4 percent. During the year, it will then head towards the inflation target, which still lasts and amounts to around 2%. The forecast also envisages the stability of market interest rates at an existing very low level. They're de facto zero. So many messages. If there is a need for a resolution, I will make a statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u5	Yes, in a detailed debate. Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I see President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u6	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Beznoska and I didn't agree, but I'd start where he left off. The forecast envisages the stability of market interest rates at the current very low level by the end of 2016. I think it's good news for everyone who borrows money. However, I would like to take advantage of the Governor's presence at the meeting because it is this very sentence that we learned from the media a few weeks ago that the Deputy Minister of Finance complains at the Czech National Bank about how he is manipulating Pribor. It is true that many companies, many cities and many municipalities have their credit agreements tied to Pribor, whether it is one month or three months, and I would like to hear as much assurance as possible from the Governor that nothing like this happens that what we watch every day, as published by the Czech National Bank, simply answers that there are no mysterious backroom machinations going on, no backroom agreements. I don't think that's true, but it's just that the Deputy Finance Minister isn't just somebody, a guy who has some kind of performance in the Ministry of Finance that's publicly publishing it. I'm pointing out that publicly. This was not only about someone having any suspicions, he writes to the Czech National Bank on the basis of a newspaper article, but at the same time gives it as a press release and puts it in public space for discussion. I think that's a problem that could shake trust in the banking market. It would be good if we could hear a few words about this at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u7	Thank you. For the general debate, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u8	Just a brief addition to Mr. Stanjura's words. One is the impact on the country, but I think the impact is greater, and it's been dealt with more abroad. And I think it really was devastating for the reputation of the Czech banking environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u9	In addition to the general debate, the Governor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u10	Thank you for the questions that are clearly on the same subject, this is a letter from Deputy Minister Pros. I'll split it into two things. The first is a way of communicating. I have to say that I have worked with eight governments, seven finance ministers, since one of them served twice, and I have to say that I simply did not have the Deputy to send such a letter and at the same time publish it in the press. I find that very unusual. As far as the subject matter is concerned, we have registered the article, but first of all, there is no need to trace any ilregularity on the general figures of Pribor. As far as these procedures are concerned, they control supervision within everything, I must say that at the same time the banks have made it quite harder due to the scandals that have taken place in other countries, the procedures that do this. I'm in a bit of a difficult situation right now because we're two-stage. At this point, if something starts to save our supervision on the basis of the Deputy Minister's letter, I have nothing to do but enter into this procedure, because someone can then appeal to the Bank Board, which will decide on the appeal, which in this case is called decay in administrative law. However, I can say that from a procedural point of view, I know that at this point in time the position of the first degree of supervision is that he will try to obtain further information from the Deputy, because there is no reason in that letter that would allow them to initiate an investigation, or even start investigating the matter. I must say that I find it quite unfortunate that communication at this time with at least such weak territorial content is also a subject of the media. I came back from the monetary fund last week. I must say that, of course, investors are asking this question and it is quite difficult to explain to them that such a situation has arisen. I'd dare to quit. At this point, there is nothing in the substance that the Deputy Director has supplied us with so far that we can even initiate an investigation. That is the position of our first degree, which I believe - I hope - is sufficient assurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u11	Thank you, Mr. Governor. Mr Stanjura is still in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u12	Thank you, Mr. Governor. That's enough for me. I didn't want to make it difficult for him. I understand any procedural procedures, so I'm satisfied with the Governor's answer. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, or the Minister of Finance, how they look at the Deputy Minister's actions. I have seen from public sources at least the statements of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that they consider this to be a mistake. But I think it's such a big mistake - if you hear that the governor has to explain it at the meeting of the governors of the national banks and at the meeting of the International Monetary Fund, it's not funny. I think there are different kinds of mistakes, and I want to ask you, if you consider it a mistake, how I read what the consequences will be. Or we'll just say the wrong thing happened, but the governor will somehow explain it around the world, somehow it'll turn out and we'll move on. I think it's too little.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u13	Yes. Further to the general debate? [[No one checked in.]] If there are no more applications for the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I don't think there's any need for final words at this stage. I will open a detailed debate. The rapporteur shall make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to introduce you to the budget committee resolution of the 21st meeting of 15 April 2015. Following the opening words of Vice-Governor Tomšík, Mr Beznoska's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. notes the CNB's report on inflation, the Monetary Development Report for the second half of 2014; II. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies is aware of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation for the second half of 2014, III. Instructs the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-011-120.u15	Thank you. I will ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. I am ending the debate in detail, I will ask again about the final words of the Governor - there is no need. Neither does the rapporteur. In that case, we will vote. I will ring the bell for colleagues in the lobby and point out that the motion for a resolution has been tabled and concerns the fact that the Chamber of Deputies takes note of this report. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? This is a 59 vote, the entry is 167, for 144, against 2, this proposal has been adopted. I'm done discussing point 120. Let's continue with the point.
